ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I present to your attention the Project of the Programme for Work of the National Assembly 20 February 2019: "1." Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019. 2. New discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Data Act adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2019, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 20 of 4 February 2019 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. Annual Youth Report 2016 and Annual Youth Report 2017 with Decision Projects. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018 and 14 December 2018. 4. Termination of the term of office of the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission. resigned from Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission on 19 February 2019, first item on Thursday, 21 February 2019. 5. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Commission for Financial Supervision and Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election of the National Assembly. Importer is the Committee on Budget and Finance, item 2 for Thursday, 21 February 2019. 6. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Importer is the Committee on Legal Affairs, item 3 for Thursday, 21 February 2019. 7. Second vote on the Bill on Population Census and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2018. Adopted at first vote on 30 January 2019. Point 4 for Thursday 21 February 2019 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Railway Transport Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 January 2019. Adopted in first vote on 7 February 2019. Point 5 for Thursday 21 February 2019 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Additional Agreement to the Memorandum of Understanding on the maintenance and operation of the detector between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) No 10, signed on 28 November 2018 in Sofia. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019, item 1 for Friday, 22 February 2019. 10. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed draft agenda. They voted 145 MPs: 134, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE ARCHIVER TO THE SEVERNOATLANTIC AGREEMENT ON THE RECOGNITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF NEIGHBORAL MACEDONIA. Dear colleagues, the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is at the balcony of the plenary. He is a guest of the National Assembly on the upcoming vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] Colleagues, the Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce us to Mrs. Grozdanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty concerning the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 902-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019. At an extraordinary meeting held on 15 February 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, signed on 6 February 2019 in Brussels. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Emilia Kraleva. In April 2008, in Bucharest, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Summit decided to invite the Republic of Macedonia to join after finding a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute with the Hellenic Republic over the country's name. This process and the procedures for the implementation of the compromise reached ended with the ratification of the Agreement signed on 17 June 2018. The Agreement of Prespa by the parliaments of the two countries, respectively on 11 January 2019 by the Republic of Northern Macedonia and on 25 January 2019 by the Hellenic Republic. On this basis, the draft Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia was approved by the North Atlantic Council at the level of permanent representatives on 28 January 2019. On 6 February 2019 the Protocol was signed by the NATO Member States in Brussels. The Republic of Bulgaria actively contributed to the decision to include the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the enhanced partnership dialogue with NATO as early as 2008. In a bilateral plan signed on 1 August 2017 in Skopje, the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation, Bulgaria reaffirmed its support for the Euro-Atlantic integration of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is a confirmation of the consistent policy of the Republic of Bulgaria for the establishment of lasting security and prosperity in the region. With the entry into force of this Protocol, the Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation will invite the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to join the Alliance. In accordance with art. 10 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the Republic of Northern Macedonia will become party to the Treaty from the date of deposit of its accession document. This Protocol shall enter into force after each of the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty has notified the Government of the United States of America of its adoption. The Protocol is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy unanimously with 13 votes for the Council of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 902-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019, proposed to the National Assembly to ratify the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u4	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. The second report belongs to the Defence Committee. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u5	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 902-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019. At a meeting held on 15 February 2019, the Defence Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 902-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Emilia Kraleva and by the Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov. The Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia was signed on 6 February 2019 in Brussels. It is an addition to the North Atlantic Treaty and it is necessary to be ratified by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Chairman of the Defence Committee, People's Representative Konstantin Popov, pointed out that the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia is a very important step towards the establishment of lasting security and prosperity in the region. There is still much work to be done in the process of joining NATO, which we have already been through in Bulgaria. There is a broad field of cooperation and the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should respond positively to a request for assistance. During the discussion of the draft by the MPs Petar Vitanov, Boris Vangelov, Tasco Ermenkov, Milen Mihov, Jayhan Ibryamov and Valentin Radev was expressed support of the Bill and underlined that the European and Euro-Atlantic perspective is the most stable guarantee for the security and stability of the Western Balkans. A question was raised about the possible role of the instrument of ratification as a diplomatic instrument for activating partnership and interstate relations. Deputy Minister Emilia Kraleva thanked for the unanimous support and stressed the importance of consensus in making important decisions for the security of the country. In response to the question asked, Ratification is in short terms an expression of consistent policy and it is very positive that Bulgaria is among the first countries to ratify the Protocol. At the same time, he assured that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very closely monitoring the problems and that no compromise will be allowed in any area with regard to the agreements and national interests reached. In the subsequent vote by 19 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 902-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u6	Thank you, dear General Popov. Colleagues, I give the floor to the motives of Deputy Minister of Justice and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u7	Madam President, Mr President of the Meeting of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! I would like to thank you for the opportunity to present to you the Bill on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on behalf of the Bulgarian Government. The moment is historic for NATO enlargement, as this year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Alliance and in the year of the 70th anniversary the Republic of Northern Macedonia will become the 30th ally in the Alliance. The Republic of Bulgaria is a consistent supporter of the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkan candidates. This has also been clearly demonstrated during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2018. Almost one year ago on 14 February 2018, the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between our two countries entered into force. I would like here, from this highest tribune in Bulgaria, to thank, on behalf of the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian government, I suppose, you will also join these thanks for the fact that, during the signing of the Protocol in Brussels, my colleague Nikola Dimitrov expressed his express gratitude to the Bulgarian government, to the Bulgarian people for the clear and lasting support of their aspiration for alliance in NATO and for membership in the European Union. Just a few days ago in Munich, Prime Minister Zaev expressed his personal gratitude and shared the award he received with Prime Minister Tsipras and the Bulgarian Prime Minister. As soon as it joined NATO in 2004, the Republic of Bulgaria has made a clear commitment to work to promote the process of Euro-Atlantic integration of the countries seeking membership. This consistent support is conditional on our confidence in the importance of integration processes as an incentive for internal reforms, for strengthening security and stability in the region and for building good neighbourly relations. NATO enlargement policy is seen as one of the most successful instruments of the Euro-Atlantic community to expand the area of peace, security and prosperity. Leaded by these beliefs, several Bulgarian governments decided to conclude memorandums of co-operation in the field of European and Euro-Atlantic integration with the governments of then still the Republic of Macedonia in 2004, 2008 and 2011. The path of joining NATO was not short for our neighbours. As early as 1993, the Skopje Assembly adopted a resolution to support NATO membership. In 1999 he went into the next phase of the integration process with the so-called membership plan and implementation of annual national programmes. At the 2008 NATO Summit, with Bulgaria's active role, the allies decided to invite the then Republic of Macedonia to join, as soon as a mutually acceptable solution to the bilateral name dispute with Greece was found. In our national interest, it is our southwest neighbour to be part of the area of shared democratic values, to assume her share of the responsibilities and obligations arising from NATO membership and to contribute to Euro-Atlantic security. Within NATO, the horizons for future co-operation are further expanding. The recent membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the Alliance will make us allies able to take part in solving global regional problems, as well as the required complex solutions in the areas of combating radicalisation, extremism, terrorism, disinformation, hybrid wars and so on. The joint teachings between our armies will contribute both to the development of our defense capabilities and help to overcome the unfair prejudices of the past. At the same time, accession itself does not mean an end to efforts for internal changes and democratic transformation of the country. The Republic of Bulgaria will continue to encourage the Republic of Northern Macedonia and support the process of continuing the internal reforms needed to start membership negotiations. I can assure you that our diplomatic efforts to make a final decision in June this year to open accession negotiations with the European Union will continue. NATO membership marks a new stage of co-operation between our two countries. I hope that it will be filled with mutual trust and increased dynamics of interstate relations, which will directly reflect the extremely strong attachment between the citizens of our countries. I also sincerely believe that very soon, as I have already said in June 2019, you will also begin membership negotiations. I am convinced that, like our two governments, our parliaments, our citizens and our business, we are willing to fulfil the commitments we made with the Treaty, which we signed a year and a half ago and which came into force a year ago, leading in this regard, is the maintenance of good neighbourly relations, a key element on which the pace of progress of reforms will really depend. It is also our role here to correct a historical injustice - historical errors - I would call them, for example, the lack of sufficient connectivity and infrastructure between the two countries. The work on improving infrastructure on Corridor 8 continues to be of paramount importance, including the construction of fast, quality roads, highways and roads. It is precisely with the construction of the combined Intermodal Transport Networks that will reveal completely new opportunities for potential investors, which will favour our socio-economic cohesion. I would like to congratulate the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mr. Talat Jaferi, that he is here with us, to assure him that I know how difficult and long this process has been, and to express confidence that the right lessons from the mistakes in the past have been made and the future before us is common, as is common with our past. I would like to call on all Members of the National Assembly, as in the committees you unanimously supported the Council of Ministers' proposal for ratification, to do so in this House as well. Once again, let me express my gratitude for having the opportunity to express the government's motives to you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u9	Dear Madam President, Mr. Jafferi, Chairman of the Meeting of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I take the floor with a clear conscience that today we are going to talk about an important topic. We may be repeating ourselves, but a good deed must be spoken of, and if necessary, it must be repeated. The good words should sound in the Bulgarian Parliament. Here I will join the Deputy Prime Minister yes, a lot of work has been done both in recent years and in recent months. So did we believe so strongly just two or three years ago that this day would come that we would really... [[Reply by MP Delyan Dobrev.]] Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. So did we believe so strongly that this day would come when the Bulgarian National Assembly would ratify this protocol? Here we must also pay tribute to the government, to Mr. Boyko Borisov, to the Deputy Prime Minister, to all the ministers and to all the people who participated in this process with great strength, with great will, with a lot of energy, with a lot of kindness, with a lot of diplomacy to get to this day when we will consider and, hopefully, unanimously confirm a good deed. I believe that with the ratification of the Protocol we will indeed do a historic case because with the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty we not only provide our southwest border, where, instead of a neighbour, we will have an ally, but with the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia we will say a value system, which we all share with the members of NATO, namely the principle of one for all. I do not want to politicize this process, but to me it seems a bit sad that colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party are not here on such an important day for Bulgaria and that the party took over the national responsible. I'm sure they'll regret that they missed that day and I'm sure those after us will say the same, because when we talk about national unity, when we talk about security, about stability, we should all be together. I'll join you in what the Deputy Prime Minister said before me. We really have a lot of work ahead of us and we are ready to help the Republic of Northern Macedonia when it comes to making a decision in the North Atlantic Treaty, when it comes to building defence capabilities, when it comes to defensive planning, when it comes to building personnel and many, many other cases, but I am sure that pragmatism will bring us to a good end. And in today's day, we can afford a little emotion. Here, from Sofia, from Bulgaria clearly and loudly say and hear: welcome, friends, to us, welcome, brothers and sisters! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any lines to Mr. Popov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Karadayi, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u11	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Chairman of the Meeting of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Excellency, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! We, the MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, strongly support the decision and we will vote for it. Convincedly, consistently and uncompromisingly we follow this course of our Euro-Atlantic development as early as 1990, in 1992, when Bulgaria officially recognised Macedonia's independence, in 1999, 2004 and 2007, and we continue steadily because we believe and know that this is the right way for national security and state sovereignty, for peace and democracy. In this regard, a brief reference to the historic speech of our Honorary President Dr. Ahmed Dogan on Bulgaria's road to Europe through the Bosporus, as well as to the active role of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, for our membership in NATO and the European Union. To our joy and pride, membership in both alliances was realized in our participation in the country's rule. Describing where the value stands, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms took over as a mission the realization and deepening of Euro-Atlantic integration at the dawn of democracy. It continues to uphold Euro-Atlantic values today, the values of peace and democracy, the rule of law, the rights and freedoms of citizens and human dignity. The ideas for the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the Western Balkans, including Macedonia, are our commitment from the 1990s. We are convinced that this is the way to build strong and stable Balkans, to strengthen stability in the region and in Europe, to ensure peace and prosperity. This is the way to oppose populism and nationalism, to any cynical policy that threatens peace. By supporting this decision today, we reaffirm our allegiance to those Euro-Atlantic values that protect peace and democracy, the rights and freedoms of European citizens. At the same time, through the support of this decision, we deny any form of hatred, xenophobia, nationalism and populism. We call on all nationally responsible parties to reaffirm our common unwavering will to be actively engaged in this unique community of values dedicated to the principles of individual freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, to achieve security and stability, lasting peace and prosperity. We remind you that shared values require not only declarations, but also deeds, will and determination, require responsibility, require compliance with the Constitution and compliance of the country's laws with the basic law, with European directives, especially in the area of civil and human rights. Today's decision is political and strategic for the security of the country and the region and we support it. We believe that the Republic of Northern Macedonia, becoming part of shared democratic values, will assume its share of the responsibilities and obligations arising from NATO membership, as well as contribute to Euro-Atlantic security. We wish you luck! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. The word is Mr. Volen Siderov. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u13	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Mr President of the Macedonian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs! Madam President, I will risk reducing the pathos with which my fellow Members are speaking today, as politics is not poetry, but I have also written poetry, but in politics we must look for the specific practical benefits when we do something about benefits for each country. Since we are talking about an attitude towards Macedonia, I also remember that in January, I think it was, 1992, then I put a title: "Bulgaria recognised Macedonia" in the newspaper of democracy in which I led. It was again such a solemn day, in the same way in the National Assembly there were such enthusiastic speeches that pointed to a bright path of our recognition. I think we were the first country to recognise Macedonia, and shortly after that, the Republic of Turkey. Unfortunately, however, this recognition of us was not followed by genuine co-operation, economic, cultural and all that should exist between two neighbouring countries. On the contrary, there were periods of freezing of relations, in the sense of lack of any relationship, there were periods of dispute over name, language and so on and about nationality. These disputes have not been deleted, they have not passed, they have not disappeared by signing the contract between Bulgaria and Macedonia on 1 August 2017 for cooperation and friendship, which is, of course, a good thing. Because we must necessarily have friendly and good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and these relations should be of economic benefit. Therefore, Madam President, although we are now talking about ratification of the accession of Northern Macedonia to NATO, I will allow myself and my fellow Members to provide you with an annex to this treaty. Mrs. Zaharieva, it's nice to meet you too. The annex does not contradict the essence of the Treaty, on the contrary, it complements it. In this annex I will only mention that the two parties will refrain from any speculation, attempts to possess, embezzle historical events, personalities defined as common to the two Contracting Parties and so on. It is sometimes about situations where disputes arise over historical names, facts and personalities. With this annex, the issue is cleared and thus our cooperation can now be complete and without any controversial points. Here, I'll leave it to you, even though it's not relevant, yes, I'll leave it to you. [[Shows the document.]] I would also like to say that here I have heard many pathetic words about value systems, the North Atlantic Pact has been referred to as a value system. I apologize very much, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, but the value systems are described in books such as the New Testament, the Koran, but not in the Treaty of a military-political bloc. A military block can't be a value system. Bulgaria has been a member of various military blocks in its history. She was an accomplice to the Third Reich coalition, that is, until 1944, then she was in the Soviet bloc and a member of the Warsaw Treaty, now a member of NATO. These are different turns and peripets in our history, but they have been made as decisions by the political elite again. Here, in this Chamber, the MPs applauded when on 1 March 1941 Prime Minister Filov signed the Trilateral Pact for Bulgaria's Accession to the Axis of Rome. You know what happened after that we were defeated in a war, there were bombings over Sofia, civilian people died and many victims. Let's not announce our membership in military units as a value system. This is my request because this is not a value system. This can be a conjuncture, it can be a temporary solution for Bulgaria's defence strategy... whether NATO is the best solution, whether there should even be military blocks nowadays after the destruction of the Warsaw Treaty or another dispute, is a topic which I would love to hear as a discussion in the Bulgarian public space. Because when Bush and Gorbachev agreed that the Berlin Wall would fall, I know that there was an agreement, an agreement, albeit oral, that the military blocks would be closed both the Warsaw Treaty and NATO. Well, one was closed, and the other wasn't. NATO membership is now declared a guarantee of security and peace, only security and peace against whom? I am obliged to ask these questions because we have really seen many historical twists in our Bulgarian history. Against what guarantees NATO membership, against whom? Who's the enemy, plainly put? That's a question we should ask too. Somehow in Komsomol, we are so delighted with the accession of our neighbour northern Macedonia to NATO. We are not taking into account, perhaps we are not doing the serious analysis: what does this mean exactly, what does NATO do in the Balkans, what will it do? Is there any preparation for military action in the Balkans and in Europe at all? I see such signs, but someone will say that I look too hard and look for details that are not there. He's got it! What will be the role of Northern Macedonia in the North Atlantic Pact in the Balkans? These questions I would love to hear from representatives of the government, from our political elite or from commentators, because only joy is not enough. Yes, my fellow Members and I are categorical about friendly, good neighbourly and fully friendly relations with Macedonia. These include both economic cooperation and cultural and human communication. At the same time, no one there, in northern Macedonia, should worry in any way about anything when he says that he is with Bulgarian self-awareness. This is also a question that stands, and my colleagues well know that it exists. These topics must be cleared, they must be in a calm, creative, constructive dialogue, and I think that the annex I propose, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, will help this... look at it, edit it if necessary, but let it be the step towards relations between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, which have stepped on the mutual benefit and interest. That's politics, that's diplomacy. You know it well. Otherwise, everything else is a matter of celebration and solemn days. There is nothing wrong with this day as a gesture to our neighbor, a gesture of friendship, but let us not forget that the interests of states remain always task number 1 for each government. Thank you for your attention. Good luck to Northern Macedonia! [[Applause from OP, single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Mr. Angelov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u15	Madam President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Jaffrey, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is really important for the Bulgarian national interests and for the security at all.. not only of Bulgaria, but of the whole of Southeast Europe, and especially of the Western Balkans. Because today we will ratify a treaty with which the Republic of Macedonia will become a NATO member. And our BSP colleagues are gone! They once again betray and sell Bulgaria's national interests and are against security in the Western Balkans and Southeast Europe. No matter what the internal contradictions in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the Bulgarian policy are, when it comes to national interests, when it comes to the security of Southeast Europe, it doesn't matter which party it is, we should all be here to support such decisions. However, the BSP is clearly faithful to its comintern policy, they are not in the Chamber to support brotherly Macedonia, they are not in the Chamber to support, including their sister party, which rules in Macedonia nowadays. It doesn't matter, I say again, our internal relations between the parties in Bulgaria. The important thing is that when Bulgaria's national interest is protected, what is important is that the interests in the Western Balkans and on the Balkan Peninsula are protected, and stability will be ensured, all parties will be in the Bulgarian Parliament and will support such a decision. I hope they have an explanation. If not, the explanation why they abdicate on important issues for the state, important issues for the European Union, important issues for NATO, will give it in the elections of the Bulgarian voters. It is important for us from IMRO, and it has always been important for Brother Macedonia to be supported. Bulgaria has been doing this for 30 years and is constantly supporting the Republic of Macedonia in its path, without twisting its hands like other countries, without having any claims that border on interference in the internal affairs of a particular country. Bulgaria has always supported the Republic of Macedonia on both good and bad days. Today, IMRO will also support the Republic of Macedonia. But it is also important for us that the Treaty of Friendship and Good Neighborhood, which we have signed, be implemented by both sides, that democratic processes in the Republic of Macedonia continue, that the people of Macedonia be truly free to express their will, that the people of Macedonia not be showered with the hate speech, which has been pouring more than a decade there, especially against Bulgaria and the Bulgarians. It is really important to us that the forgeries in history, both in textbooks and in various media, which serve the interests of foreign countries in the Republic of Macedonia, should stop against Bulgaria. Because we believe that the two countries together, walking their way forward, will live better if they do not live a lie if they live by supporting themselves. For us from IMRO, the next step is important because NATO is the first step. The next step is finally between the brothers and sisters of the two countries to remove the border. This is Macedonia becoming a member of the European Union and there is no border between the two countries, people living freely, relatives visiting each other so that we can really both Bulgaria and Macedonia and the whole region will be! Long live Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u16	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u17	Madam President, honourable Members, Vice-Prime Minister, distinguished guests, Mr. Jafferi, Your Excellency! On behalf of the members of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the GERB Party, I would like to share with you that for me and for us this is a good day, which completes a long and difficult process, a process which has been supported all along by the Republic of Bulgaria. Bear in mind that we will continue this support in the difficult process that awaits you for membership in the European Union. I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on its decision, because we know that this decision was not easy either in domestic politics or in foreign policy. I would like to congratulate the parliamentary members of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, who have been able to collect the necessary majority several times, which was also not easy. It follows an assessment of the far-sightedness of the policy of the Hellenic Republic, because this was also not an easy decision for them, of course, and for the Republic of Bulgaria in the face of our Prime Minister, I would like to point out his personal role in this process, and the role of our Foreign Ministry in the face of Minister Zaharieva. There is no way I can miss the Bulgarian Parliament, which, with 206 votes for..... ratified the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation. I can't miss the absence of the left side of the room. To me this is a sign not only that if the entire House had voted in favour and in favour of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in its future, it is also a sign of a lack of support for the formats in which Bulgaria is a member, I mean the European Union and NATO. I am convinced that there are people on the left who regret not being in this room today because they have worked in such long and difficult processes. Today, this is a solution to a geopolitical issue. The enlargement of NATO with new Member States has always been the consistent policy of the European Union and Bulgaria is part of this Union. There is no way I can miss the support for the enlargement of the Western Balkan countries by Romania and by Croatia, which very strongly said that this process will be continued by them. I would like to congratulate and thank everyone who has a role and will continue to participate in the process. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u18	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Mr. Panchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u19	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Jafferi, dear guests, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! As Chairman of the Agricultural Union, Alexander Stamboliyski and MP of the National Assembly, I would like to confirm my readiness and that I will vote for the EU because I am part of these 27 years after Macedonia has gained independence. In 1992, I was one of the first Bulgarians to lead an official delegation in Macedonia, and I remember the euphoria that had taken over our neighbours and friends for Macedonia's future. I am witnessing these years where there have been serious problems with the neighbours, with some of our politicians in Bulgaria, but I am glad that after all these years we have one Republic of Northern Macedonia, which we have recognised today, who is a candidate for a NATO member, who I am convinced today that we will unanimously support in our parliament and that I sincerely wish to walk confidently on the path that has begun to have peace in the Balkans, so that we, as good neighbours and friends of Macedonia, should know that we are in the idea together, in the fight for a better peaceful existence both in the Balkans and in the world as a whole. Speaking of the Balkans, I would like to mention something that my fellow Members did not say: Bulgaria presided over the European Union some time ago. I consider it a merit of our Presidency, of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the current Minister for European Affairs in the Presidency and that the process that the Republic of Northern Macedonia has been seeking has been achieved. It was achieved because I see that the government of our neighbours and parliament are working in the interest of moving towards peaceful co-existence, towards peaceful Balkans. And so, as we were excited to ratify in 2004 our participation in NATO and in 2007, when we became full members of the European Union, I know that you, dear friends and neighbours, are doing so now. I wish you in the coming years to go this very hard road, but I am convinced that you will do it and become full members of the European Union, and we will again come together to ratify your full participation in this..... once provided by Alexander Stamboliyski, an idea for united European states. I wish you good luck from the bottom of my heart. I thank my fellow Members for being so united today in supporting our neighbours. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u21	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, honourable Mr. Jafferi, Chairman of the Parliament of Northern Macedonia, honourable Members! Today is a historic day for Bulgaria. Today is historic for Northern Macedonia and shows the political will of the Bulgarian Parliament to give way and support Northern Macedonia's efforts for the North Atlantic Pact. NATO will provide additional security. NATO will ensure the future and implementation of efforts for the upcoming EU membership. However, when today the Bulgarian Parliament will ratify this decision, it is very important that we still give what is due to all the governments of Bulgaria, to all the parliaments of Bulgaria after 1992, who supported the efforts of the Republic of Macedonia at the time. Let's all remember 1992. Bulgaria was the first country to recognise the independence and efforts of the Republic of Macedonia to build its sovereignty, to build its future and to have its European perspective. Let us also remember the conflicts that were in the Western Balkans. They contributed in their small part to this division and political opposition, which was among the politicians of different countries, among the politicians in the different parliamentary groups in the respective parliaments. But let us remember and not forget an extremely important, key declaration between Georgievski and Kostov, which gave strong support to the Republic of Macedonia, and this was the period in which a refugee wave to Macedonia was created from the events in Kosovo. With the support of the Bulgarian government, with the financial support of seven and a half million German brands, we supported the construction of a centre that could accommodate those 3,000 people who were refugees and fled the conflicts in Kosovo. Just then, the Bulgarian government and Bulgarian politicians did their best to provide transport corridors for humanitarian aid and to support our friends from Macedonia. Let us give what has been done and what has been done in 2003 at the Thessaloniki meeting, even though there was no follow-up to what we are getting today. Let us also give what is due to the Berlin process, because Europe has always believed that the Western Balkans are part of the European Union. Let us not forget all that Bulgaria and the Bulgarian government have done in its first European Presidency, which has given us the chance to be leaders and to show that we are indeed for good neighbourliness, understanding and prosperity, security and peace in the region where we are. Let us give what is due to all the European countries that supported the efforts of the Bulgarian government in bringing out one of the main priorities, and this is integration and the European perspective for the Western Balkans. Let us give what is deserved here to all who are after the Bulgarian Presidency, and when the Austrian Presidency takes responsibility, this priority continues. Let us thank for the efforts of everyone who has contributed so that Greece and Northern Macedonia can achieve what today has given the prospect and opportunity, on 6 February this year, in NATO, in Brussels, to give a horizon for the North Atlantic Pact. I would like to recall a conversation that we had with you, Mr. Jafferi, perhaps a year ago, when you showed wisdom and said what all the politicians in the Balkans should have in mind.. you said that if we go back to the conflict dates, if we go back to these historical facts that divided the Western Balkans and the region, this means that we will not be able to have a future for our children. You said that. I have given these words a lot of thought, and I would like to thank you because you have shown a really responsible position. By defending your national interests, you have shown that we can protect the national interests of the region. When Macedonia and the Western Balkans have the European perspective, they have the prospect of NATO, this means that the region is becoming much more secure, there can be real connectivity, more business, more economy and more positive for everyone who can continue and leave all this to future generations. It is very worrying to me that today the Bulgarian Socialist Party is absent from the Bulgarian Parliament. Despite their absence, I can say that in very few cases they had a responsible position when it came to the region and when it came to the future of the Western Balkans. I regret that today, by a single decision of the leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the fear that exists in this parliamentary group, all democratic thinkers from the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the Bulgarian Parliament have not been given the opportunity to participate in the debate and that we can all unanimously support this ratification. It is very sick and very pathetic when internal political issues contribute to the bad image of our country and to undermining the prestige of the Bulgarian Parliament, and parliamentaryism, Parliament is the place where there are different opinions, where each political power has its political views, defends them in principle and protects them here, from the tribune of the Bulgarian Parliament. It is not normal for the Bulgarian voters to have voted to have their MPs, and for them to be absent from such an important, significant debate that can make us stronger, and indeed Northern Macedonia to feel the support of the forty-four parliament, but to feel the support of all parliamentary groups. We are in a situation where we were just at the beginning of the Bulgarian Presidency. Then you know that there was an exact request of the opposition with a refusal to enter the Bulgarian Parliament at that time when the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani was supposed to be present. BSP refused to enter the Bulgarian Parliament. Just then, my colleague Glauchev made perhaps his greatest personal sacrifice, but led only by public and national interest, he resigned so that he could satisfy the political ego and selfishness that he has in the Bulgarian Socialist Party, so that we can actually give the opportunity at the beginning of the Bulgarian Presidency here to present all MPs. Dear colleagues from BSP, ultimatum and populism cannot answer the important questions that we need to solve together. We accept your differences, but we do not accept the ultimative behavior and this narcissism that exists in the leadership of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I would like to thank Spas Panchev, who was part of the BSP for Bulgaria. However, Spas Panchev made his right choice. He did so, driven by the interest of his political power, not by the interest in supporting and defending the Bulgarian government at all costs. I would like to share and call on all BSP colleagues: be brave, be sincere to your constituents and to what you have undertaken as commitments to your families. In politics, fear leads to a loss of public trust. The fear of politics makes you much more capable, but by no means beneficial to society. I am convinced that with today's behavior BSP has confirmed that it does not need parliamentary representation in the Bulgarian Parliament. I suppose this is the approach and what it will do for the future European Parliament. Better let the parliamentary parties that are actively involved in the national debate be able to actually participate actively in the European debate. We are members of the European People's Party, our colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are to the Liberals, our colleagues from the United patriots are to the Conservatives. Each one can determine his future. I would like to thank the Commission for actually actively participating in the political debate and always making their decisions, guided only by the commitment they have made to their constituents. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]] Mr. Jafferi, I apologize for having strayed a little bit towards domestic politics, but you understand that as politicians we should do it all the time because we strive to always be hand in hand. You will be supported in every effort as well as for your validation as a reliable partner of NATO, but you will also be supported by Bulgaria for your future European membership, because Macedonia's place is in the European Union, Macedonia's place is in NATO. Thus, we can counter any potential threats from third countries that do not wish to have stability, to have peace, to have good neighbourliness in the region we are in. Thank you for being here. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have been actively involved. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for all the hard work and all the things we have been able to do together with all the Members of the National Assembly. As has been said by the pre-speakers, indeed BSP has people with European thinking, with thinking quite democraticly, which does not correspond to today's behavior of their leader. Thank you, colleagues! Let us wish Northern Macedonia success for what lies ahead for them, and this is a better future than it has ever been! Thank you. [[Applause from the parliamentary groups of GERB, OP and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty concerning the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, No 902-02-5, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 14 February 2019. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. [[All MPs stand up and greet guests from the Republic of Northern Macedonia with long applause.]] Colleagues, we have a second vote coming up. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u23	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I ask that the bill on ratification be voted on at the second vote in today's sitting. I'm asking for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u24	Please vote on the procedure so made for the second vote on the ratification of the Protocol. Vote 141 MPs: 140, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Jafferi! Usually, between the first and second votes, there should be a slightly more specific statement, not common. In this case, I use Mr. Jafferi's presence to state the position of some of the.................................... the party that I represent......................................... the National Front for the salvation of Bulgaria that we will support Macedonia's accession to NATO in the second vote. However, through you we want to make our remarks to Macedonia's governance regarding the rights of all people who have Bulgarian consciousness and feel Bulgarians in Macedonia, and they are not few. Although Bulgaria was the first to recognise Macedonia in 1992, as it has been mentioned, in this period to this day against the people who have Bulgarian consciousness, repression was carried out, there was a lot of negativity. Their rights have been violated. Unfortunately, at present, that is a fact. All these people are still unable to enjoy the rights and freedoms of which they are entitled to the right to use language in schools. Their professional career very often depends on their self-determination. You should not forget that in Bulgaria practically all Bulgarian families are somehow connected, unfortunately, not with the best memories with Macedonia. Our common history obliges a more correct attitude and respect for the democratic rights of all Bulgarians in Macedonia. I will not comment on history, as it is usually the subject of the most massive debates. I will not comment on it, as I respect the decision of the two countries to set up an Interdepartmental Commission. I don't want to get into this stuff. However, it is only right for Macedonia, in view of its accession to NATO and its possible accession to the European Union, to correct its behaviour, to stop the destruction of monuments. If necessary, rewrite texts of some Macedonian monuments, which talk about Bulgarian occupiers and so on. Because history seems to determine Macedonia to come out of another Euro-Asian circle of influence and turn in another direction to a common European integration and future. We will support your entry into NATO. With caution and some patience, we will wait to see how democratisation processes will develop in Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. [[Applause from the parliamentary group of OP.]] - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mrs. Grozdanova, please introduce us to the second reading of ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia A single member. The Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, signed on 6 February 2019 in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, I am voting at second reading the Law on ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. 140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is adopted, so we can congratulate Macedonian Members again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u29	Dear Members of Parliament, I will introduce you to the following drafts and resolutions from 13 February to 19 February 2019: A bill for ratification of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia has just been dealt with in plenary. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Review of Multi-level Governance between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which was adopted on 18 February 2019. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, which was adopted on 18 February 2019. Importers: Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 19 February 2019. Importer: Council of Ministers. There's a committee on the table. Messages: Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria Krasimir Karakachanov has informed the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna between 22 and 28 February 2019, including ships from the composition of the second permanent maritime arm of NATO, by the Navy of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Turkey, Romania and the Kingdom of Spain. The visit of the group vessels is in connection with the implementation of their preparation plan. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of a military ship with its statutory arms and crew, servicemen outside the territory of the country to participate in a training exercise by the Romanian Navy with international participation, which will take place in the western part of the Black Sea, the territorial waters of Romania and the port of Constanta between 5 and 14 April 2019 inclusive. The notifications were received in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] and Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] and Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] and Messages: On 18 February 2019 in conjunction with point 2 of the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017, as amended by Decision of 12 October 2018, adopted on the occasion of a questioning debate, No 754-05-33, of 13 July 2017 by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov received a report from Minister Rumen Porozhanov, submitted, examined and approved at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers on 13 February 2019. The report is presented to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute received information on employees and average gross wage in the fourth quarter of 2018; Gross domestic product in the fourth quarter of 2018. "Express assessments, main results from the monitoring of the workforce in the fourth quarter of 2018; inflation and indexes of consumer prices for January 2019. supposed data. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. These were the messages that I should have introduced to the plenary. Moving to point two of the weekly program: NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 24 JANUARY 2019 RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAYN No 20 OF 4 FEUROAR 2019 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I will remind you of the procedure for discussing the return bill. The President shall announce the item on the agenda; gives the floor to the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order to present the Report to the Commission. In the new discussion of the Bill, debates are envisaged, and the time for the groups is in line with the general rules. Upon conclusion of the discussion, the President shall re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. In accordance with art. 86, para. 4 The National Assembly shall readmit the Law if more than half of all Members of the National Assembly have voted for it, that is, at least 121 Members of the National Assembly. Let's move on to the point. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to the President of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, before we begin with the report, I am making a procedural proposal according to art. 42, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Access to the Hall of Krasimir Tzipov "Deputy Minister of the Interior," and Ventsislav Karadjov "President of the Commission for Personal Data Protection."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tzipov and Mr. Karadjov to enter the room. Go on, dear Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u32	Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on Decree No 20 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 5 February 2019 for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of personal data adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2019 and the reasons to the Decree. At its meeting held on 13 February 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee discussed Decree No. 20 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 5 February 2019, for a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2019 and the reasons to the Decree. The meeting was attended by: from the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Prof. Emilia Drumeva, Secretary for Legal Affairs, and Mr. Blagoy Deshev, Chief Expert in Legal Affairs; from the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister; from the Personal Data Protection Commission Mr. Ventsislav Karadjov Chairman, and Mrs. Desislava Toshkova, Secretary General. The meeting was also attended: by the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators Anna Tanova Executive Director, Eva Petrova Executive Director of ABRO, Mr. Yovchev Director of Legal and Business Relations (BTV) Media Group (BTV) EAD, Gergana Dimitrova (BTV), Petya Dimova Senior Fellow at the New Broadcasting Group (BTV) AD, and Mila Dimitrova (Mila Dimitrova) Data Protection Officer at the New Broadcasting Group (AD); by the Association of Professional Photographers Lilia Yotova President, and lawyer Emil Georgiev; by the Association of European Journalists (Bulgaria) Irina Nedeva, Ivan Radev and Simona Zdravcheva Veleva. Prof. Emilia Drumeva acquainted the members of the Commission with the statement of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the President returns to the National Assembly the provisions of § 26 concerning Art. 25z, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The President shall state in his reasons that Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. (The Regulation) in part of its provisions has the characteristics of a directive and each of the Member States is obliged to take action to implement the objectives set out in those provisions. This is how it is. 85 (1) of the Regulation provides for Member States to reconcile with law the right to the protection of personal data with the right to freedom of expression and information, including processing for journalistic purposes and for the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression. The President indicates that the main position in art. 85 (1) of the Regulation on the desired reconciliation of the two rights is reproduced in art. 25z, para. 1 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, but in para. 2 of art. The 25th legislator has applied a specific approach by providing for 10 criteria on which a journalist, a researcher and a writer in his work should assess and possibly demonstrate whether and to what extent the balance between freedom of expression and information is reached, on the one hand, and the protection of personal data, on the other. The President disagrees with the criteria set out in the adopted law. According to him, the balance sought was not achieved by the legislator, as the desire to give a ready abstract formula for balanced judgement does not reconcile, but generates additional tensions between the protection of personal data and the freedom of expression and information. The President also argues that the legislative approach adopted by enumerating the criteria under art. 25z, para. 2 of which t. 10 Depreciates the indication of the previous ones, does not achieve the prescribed coordination between the two competing fundamental rights by disproportionately limiting the exercise of freedom of expression and information. According to him, the requirement to meet the criteria written in the 10 points even separately constitutes a restriction which affects the essential core of freedom of expression and information as a fundamental right recognised in the age of Enlightenment in Europe, emptys it of content and its exercise loses meaning. The President of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data (CSLD) Ventsislav Karadzhov expressed his opinion that the right to protection of personal data and the right to freedom of expression and information are fundamental rights, but are not absolute. In order to avoid the collision between them and to ensure a balance between the two, criteria are proposed on the basis of which an objective assessment is to be made for each particular case. The indication of the criteria by which the balance is achieved as a non- comprehensive list is the right and the only way to ensure maximum transparency, uniform interpretation and application and sustainability, which are the main guarantee against subjectivism in carrying out the assessment of the balance. Mr. Karadjov added that when assessing the proposed balance, the overall context and the regime of application of one right to the other should be assessed, not to separate and interpret only one part of the norm without taking into account the whole. The contested norm is part of a comprehensive proposal for the processing of personal data by the media, not an individual norm. He also noted that the personal data processing regime proposed in the Law for the purpose of exercising freedom of expression and information, including when processing for journalistic purposes, exempts media, photographers and artists from the obligation to collect, analyse and subsequently process personal data from the need to seek legal basis under the Regulation. Any information that constitutes personal data will be able to be collected and analysed seamlessly and unlimitedly. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, They may also correct or delete the personal data collected or published at their own discretion, and there is no legal mechanism to keep them from doing so, as well as to collect even personal data for children without seeking the consent of the parent, guardian or guardian. Ventsislav Karadjov also added that the reasons for the veto imposed indicate that the application of the two rights should be balanced. That's true, but someone has to make an assessment of this balance. The assessment shall be made in 3 separate stages by different entities. The first stage is before the publication of the information representing personal data. At this stage, the only possible subject is the media or the relevant journalist as an administrator. No one else knows what information the media has and what part of it is personal data. The second stage shall be when examining an alert or complaint to the Commission for the protection of personal data and the third stage shall be when contesting the Commission's decision on the protection of personal data before the court. The objective assessment of the application of one of the two rights must be based on objective criteria at each of these stages, on the same criteria and on all subjects concerned, namely journalists, media, supervisory authority, court. Mr. Karadzhov stressed that the last criterion set out in point 1. 10 was introduced to ensure freedom of expression taking into account the specifics of the particular case in view of the diversity of hypotheses of journalistic activity and the dynamics of public interest. In conclusion, Mr. Karadjov pointed out that the criteria constitute a well-established practice of the Strasbourg Court in the protection of human rights and the constant practice of dealing with complaints before the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data and these criteria apply insofar as they are applicable to the specific case. They are not a control sheet, but principled rules and objective guidelines by which the balance between rights is assessed in each case. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov noted that the Ministry of Interior considers that the legislator has provided the necessary legal environment to achieve a balance between these fundamental rights. For this reason, the Ministry supports the provision so adopted. The discussion was attended by the MPs Manoil Manev, Valentin Radev, Diana Savateva and Tsvetan Tsvetanov. People's representative Valentin Radev expressed his opinion in support of the adopted provision. People's representative Manoil Manev noted that the 10 criteria laid down in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act are in defence of the journalist's work. This applies in particular to the addressees of the norm working on the ground. If there is no adopted norm, journalists will be affected by many other criteria. This opinion was shared by Mrs Diana Savateva and said that in her practice as a journalist she has repeatedly been in a position to seek this balance without any regulation and any norm. She added that this is a balance that should seek out every journalist who treats his profession as a calling. With regard to the President's arguments, Mr. Tsvetanov pointed out that the protection of personal data is a value of democratic societies, as well as freedom of expression and freedom of speech. The protection of both categories is linked to the rights of free people. In the Declaration of Human Rights and the citizen, freedom is defined as an opportunity for a person to do what does not harm or damage another person. This is the balance of the right to freedom and the right to the protection of personal data, which the legislator is obliged to uphold and protect. Mr. Tsvetanov pointed out that according to Decision No 4 of 2012 of the Constitutional Court, these two fundamental rights, as they are not absolute, may be limited in accordance with the principle of proportionality. He noted that the veto's motives determine that the balance has been violated without arguing with an example of an imbalance present. Only the text of art. 25z, para. 2 and the criteria listed therein. This one-sided interpretation deforms the idea of a balance between the two lines. The order of Art. 25h of the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data constitutes a comprehensive system for the settlement of public relations relating to the coordination of the right to the protection of personal data with the right to freedom of expression and information. The removal of any element of it creates conditions for imbalance and absoluteisation of one right at the expense of the other in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Regulation (EU) 2016/679. It is no accident that the Regulation sets high requirements for the protection of personal data, drawing experience from the practices of personal data breach, of new forms of harmful behaviour. Mr. Tsvetanov also noted that free speech and expression and protection of personal data are not absolute rights. This means that democratic societies must seek a balance that limits the damage of unlawful conduct, and that is also the purpose of art. 25h, i.e. creating a balance, not breaking it. A lack of balance would create subjective and dangerous precedents. In conclusion, he noted that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data through Legislative Equipment provided criteria for this balance not to be violated. The criteria are not national innovation but are formulated on the basis of the permanent case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 13 votes for..... 3 votes against...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving on to the debate. I'm opening the debate. I remind you that the time of the parliamentary groups is in accordance with the rules of art. 58 of the Rules we have adopted. [[The National Representative Plamen Nunev wants the floor for speech.]] Before I gave the floor, I saw the statement. [[turns to MP Plamen Nunev]] A statement was requested from the parliamentary group "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rhodolovtsi." You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u34	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. First, to disprove a false news that, unfortunately, was produced yesterday by a colleague of ours - the public representative from GERB Georgi Markov. At a briefing Monday, he said GERB is the only party to support the will of 2.5 million Bulgarians who in a referendum pronounced for a majority electoral system. Moreover, he said all the other parties in parliament were against it. As soon as we enter the policy Veselin Mareshki and we of the Vole are flooded with false news, so we always react sharply when there is a distortion of the facts. It is a pity that in this case this comes from a colleague whom we have respected and felt that he is striving to be correct in his speeches. For this reason, we demand a public apology and rebuttal from him. It is necessary to recall that in June 2017, Volya submitted its bill for a majority electoral system, which has been on files somewhere in the offices for two years and has not been allocated for consideration in the committees. I will also recall that we are talking about a majority vote long before we enter parliament. The fact is that Mr. Veselin Mareshki made three times the score in the majority elections. We have always been about people having the opportunity to choose proven individuals who have already done something for the people and have eyes to ask for their support. Finally, I would like to refresh everyone's memory when voting on the amendments to the Election Code in June 2017 relating to the introduction of a majority electoral system, the Volya voted for the majority vote and the majority vote were BSP, DPS and the United Patriots. On Monday, we released a printout of this vote to the media. The second occasion for our Declaration is much more disturbing about the scandals and revelations about the kitchen and the IMRO. When we launched the idea of a majority electoral system two years ago, IMRO leader Mr. Karakachanov said it was cheap populism. The other day we understood why he was against change. In an interview for the surrender of the Bulgarian National Radio, the MP from NFSB Yordan Apostolov explained the behind-the-scenes schemes which the IMRO makes when drawing up its lists. I will take the liberty of quoting it precisely: The references are party-ordered lists and placed people who can pay for the service, so to speak, to be placed in a place no matter where on the list, and to be activated economically and in any other way to earn a place. This is how the lists of our IMRO partners are arranged, this is their accommodating mode of action and the end of the quote. If that is the case, then we ask: how much did Angel Dzhambazki pay, how much did Alexander Siddy pay, or Iskren Veselinov, or Sultanka? What's up, guys? That the great voivods turned out to be, in fact, ambulant merchants, selling everything. For the first time officially on national air, someone admits that a seat on the parliamentary list is paid. Is this another IMRO behind-the-scenes business? Moreover, notice, the revelation comes not from just anyone, but from their coalition partner. We call on the competent institutions to self-serving because such a scheme is unacceptable. It must be revealed to the end and its architects must bear their responsibility. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to a few key points that are related to the balance between the right to protection of personal data and the right to freedom of expression and information. First of all, the General Data Protection Regulation obliges Member States to reconcile with law the right to freedom of expression and information, including the processing for journalistic purposes and for the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression with the right to the protection of personal data. The order of Art. 25h meets this obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria. Secondly, the right to the protection of personal data and the right to freedom of expression and information are fundamental rights, but are not absolute. In order to avoid the collision between them and to ensure a balance between the two, criteria are proposed on the basis of which an objective assessment is to be made for each particular case. Thirdly, the criteria are not one national introduction but are formulated on the basis of the lasting caselaw of the two highest courts in Europe and the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Bulgaria. Next, the indication of the criteria by which the balance is achieved as a non- comprehensive list is the only way to ensure maximum transparency, uniform interpretation and application and sustainability, which are the main guarantee against subjectivism in carrying out the assessment of what the balance must be. Finally, the provision of art. 25h constitutes a comprehensive system for the settlement of public relations relating to the coordination of the right to the protection of personal data with the right to freedom of expression and information. Ejecting any element of it creates conditions for imbalance and absoluteization of one right at the expense of the other. These are the main accents I wanted to share. It is inexplicable to me that during the vote on the Law in the Chamber there was full support from all parliamentary represented forces to impose this veto. So I cannot vote and support the veto of the President, but, on the contrary, support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Obviously, the word in today's debate on the veto imposed by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria will be "balance." And in order not to be naked in our words, although I am convinced that every one of us in this House knows these texts, I will quote to you the texts of art. Art. 32, Art. 41 of the Constitution: The personal life of citizens is inviolable. Everyone has the right to defend against unlawful interference in his personal and family life and against invading his honor, dignity and good name. No one can be monitored, photographed, filmed, recorded or subjected to other similar actions without his knowledge or despite his explicit disagreement except in the cases envisaged by law. This is art. 32 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Article 41 provides: Everyone has the right to search, obtain and distribute information. The implementation of this right cannot be directed against the rights and good names of other citizens, as well as against national security, public order, public health and morals. Citizens shall have the right to information from a public authority or an office on matters which constitute a legitimate interest to them if the information is not a public or other secret protected by law or does not affect foreign rights. Dear colleagues, the Law we are discussing because of its veto was the Law of Balance. And when I say that this word today in this House will sound meaningful and repeated, it will confirm that we have been working on this law just to find the balance between the two rights to be informed, but also your personal civil rights to be protected. And that balance wasn't just achieved by looking in the sky and looking down. He was the product of four months' work on this bill. Four months, which ended with a working group led by the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Tsvetanov and with the participation of most of the members of this committee, a committee and a working environment in which citizens, civil organisations, professional organisations of journalists participated, and all of them there, in this working environment, of this working group, did not work on text, they created the texts of this law together, searching for this balance. And we finally found him. We found it so that, from the Commission to the House of the National Assembly, we all voted this law without a single vote against. And now, colleagues, I will have to pronounce, verbalize some words that I never believed I would say in this National Assembly. I am extremely sad and uncomfortable that BSP colleagues are not in this room. I never thought I'd say this, but I mean it honestly and honestly. Because, colleagues, the search for this balance, the discussion of this veto, the discussion of this law raises one question that I will have to ask my colleagues in absentia: BSP colleagues, did you give up your president? Why are you not in the Chamber to defend his veto or because you have no arguments, or because you are ashamed of this conjunctural, populist and without any argument veto? Because even in the Commission, when the people of the Presidency had to look for arguments, it was very complicated and very difficult for them. And on top of that, the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, realizing its error in putting this veto, erupted in social media: "Why does no one support us after we have vetoed it? " - Well, because it is unprincipled and illogical. Because, if we have to be specific, in the Bulgarian legislation, just to preserve this balance, just so there is no reproach for freedom of speech, there is no media law. And this lack of media law, combined with the whole meaning and text of the Bill, which we are again discussing today, and the derogations that we have given in this law, that is, we have released journalists from all administrative obligations of collection, storage and so on, and so on.... of information, we had to find the balance. And it is in these notorious criteria, which I continue to claim are actually a form of protection of the work of journalists. Why? Because every citizen has the right to seek responsibility and decision on topics that affect his personal data, information about him. If there were not these criteria embedded in the Law, then Bulgarian journalists, all those who deal with journalistic purposes with this information, had to meet any real and unrealistic claims against them. And now we have clear criteria. We have criteria that can say: No, fellow journalists or journalists have been right, the law has given them this right. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to my speech, fellow Members. The search for balance in this environment between rights and between the right to be informed is that light, if we must quote, which enables the citizen, without suffering, to receive his information. And to veto a Law passed without a single vote against it in this particular realm means that either the light interferes with you, or you are looking for the conjuncture of the moment, you are looking for the option to be liked. [[Applause from GERB.]] This isn't state-of-the-art. I therefore call on you to support the Law and reject this veto. Thank you. [[Private applause GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, dear Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! I take occasion from the words of Mr. Manev, who talks about balance, about legality, European and Bulgarian legislation, about respect for norms and morality. My words will be for keeping promises and lies. I'm going to turn to those who are not present in this room. Dear non-existent Mrs. Nino, I assume you've been following the debate, although you've probably already settled into a spa, as well as the last time you went to the people. But you can also answer everything you will hear in this debate about the veto imposed by President Radev. Today we are looking at the veto of the Personal Data Protection Act. I expected that, at least on this day, you would be present in plenary, not only because of the first item on our plenary agenda and the ratification of the Treaty with the Republic of Northern Macedonia. I expected you to enter the Chamber and support what you said a while ago, not only to the Bulgarian public, what you said to the President and to the Bulgarian journalists. Today, however, once again, you have proven that you have a nickname for a reason. After all, Mrs. Ninova, together with the spokesperson of BSP, by the way also journalist Mrs. Yoncheva, told the Association of European Journalists on 11 February 2019 that BSP will support the signal of the Association of European Journalists and will support the veto of the President. Did you lie, absent Mrs. Nino, and you, not present Mrs. Yoncheva?! Did you lie to the President by telling your party and your support for this bill? This is not new, of course, because only a week before that your parliamentary group and the MPs of the National Assembly, Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Stoyanov, Elena Yoncheva, Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov, Christian Vigenin, Nikolay Tishev, Petar Vitanov, Stanislav Vladimirov and Tasco Ermenkov from your parliamentary group voted for the draft [[Partial applause from GERB]] which we are looking at today once again, which you supported in plenary at its second reading. I'm asking: is this common hypocrisy or something? My second address will be to the non-existent Mr. President and his non-existent team of legal advisors. Dear Mr. President, it is a pity that neither you nor your representatives are involved in today's debate. In fact, I now understand your interest in this law. However, I do not understand how you are such a fierce advocate of both freedom of speech and democracy and the personal data of citizens, and members of your Legal Council were convicted yesterday by the Supreme Administrative Court because they have abused the personal data of citizens and journalists. [[Applause]] "The Journalists Maria Tsanzarova, journalist Kanna Racheva and 12 others joined this complaint and won from yesterday's decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, which condemns your legal advisor Mr. Tsekov, and your nomination in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination.............................................................................................. lv. I don't know if the BSP will join again and as they reacted to Mrs. Yoncheva's non-violence measure and guaranteed that she would be bailed out by up to 20,000. BGN, if they're not going to collect 10 thousand now. lv. for Tsekov and Kichashki [[Applause from GERB]] because they were candidates for the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u41	BSP!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u42	From BSP, of course. Dear Mr. President, it is now time to prove that you are a man of principle and to release your representative to the Commission for protection against discrimination.. Mr. Kichashki, because he has already been sentenced to the last instance, to release your legal advisor Mr. Tsekov, because he has already been sentenced to the last instance for abuse of personal data. I hope you will! I believe you're a man of principle. Otherwise, it will look like another senior pilot in hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Karadjov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not repeat what has been said before me, I will try to present within a few minutes the vision of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on the amendments to the Law, which is the veto imposed by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Firstly, what I want to share is that today the right to protection of personal data and privacy is indeed a very vulnerable right, not only because of the new technologies and the digitalization of our lives. The examples of this are many and most of all the abuse of personal data from Facebook, Google, the scandal with "Kambridge Analytics" for the study of political attitudes and preferences of millions of Americans and European citizens. Separately, false news in social and electronic media is a major problem for processing the personal data of individuals, which, by the way, is trying to counter the European Commission itself. The public on a global scale is very sensitive to this issue of processing personal data and it is no accident that the European legislator has registered these developments with the General Data Protection Regulation adopted in 2016. He has sought to establish a comprehensive legislative framework for the processing of personal data and has indicated the possible facilitations and applications of the rules. The Bulgarian legislator, by the way, has benefited from all possible reliefs and derogations, when we talk about processing personal data for journalistic purposes. The president's veto also concerns the processing of personal data for journalistic purposes and before I comment on this veto and the reasons for overregulation and censorship, I would like to clarify what rights the media had in Bulgaria in the case of processing personal data by 2018, so that a clear assessment can be made whether there is overregulation or censorship. Dear Members of Parliament, the Personal Data Protection Act was adopted in 2002. The media with this law had the same obligations as any other of the four hundred thousand controllers processing personal data in Bulgaria, i.e. they did not have any relief from the rules for processing personal data. By the way, this law has been applied in Bulgaria for 17 years. During this period, the Personal Data Protection Commission has examined more than 15 thousand complaints from individuals about the processing of personal data. How many complaints against the media? Ninety. Only eight of them were respected. [[Applause from GERB.]] Of these eight, only two are subject to sanctions on media for unlawful processing of personal data. What is the situation after the introduction of the new rules with changes in 2018? It has been presented in part, I will confirm what the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data understands about these new amendments. With the new amendments, two thirds of the obligations of other controllers processing personal data do not apply to the media when they process personal data for journalistic purposes. In order for there to be over-regulation, honourable Members should, in my opinion, introduce an impossible administrative burden for a legal entity, i.e. the media should have incurred additional obligations preventing them from doing their job. At least that's how I know it. There aren't any. On the contrary, they are relieved by the administrative burden. For example, they should not assess whether they have a legal basis at all to collect and further process personal data. Each administrator must do so, including the authorities of the investigation and the prosecution. In addition, they should not seek consent from parents, guardians and guardians of children in order to process their personal data, including photos, and to collect information about the child's illness from which they suffer. These are reliefs for the media so that they can clarify the specific case they want to publish. The media can, notice, also deny citizens information about what personal data they collected for them, if they reveal them to anyone and to whom. They may refuse their correction or deletion if the data is used for journalistic purposes, regardless of whether the data exported is correct. The media also do not keep records of the personal data collected by them, that is to say, they are exempt from the new rules. That is, if we look at it this way, it has no accountability for who they have collected and in what volumes.Something that the other administrators we talked about, and these are 400,000 administrators in Bulgaria, should make additional efforts and accordingly keep records, and when the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data comes, they should be able to show how they have legally collected and for what purposes they have processed personal data. Against the background of these reliefs the media have one single obligation according to these criteria, which are laid down in the Law. In fact, the criteria are principles for processing personal data. And this obligation is actually to check the extent to which the data they collect are relevant to the case, nothing more. This is because personal data is always processed for a specific purpose, they cannot be processed for other purposes that are not compatible. This is a basic principle of the Regulation and of the Bulgarian Personal Data Protection Act adopted since 2002. What is new in this case is that the Personal Data Protection Act has given rules for carrying out this assessment. Until now, however, it has been carried out by individual rules adopted by each media. I am convinced that the media have such internal rules. The question is: is it not better for each media to apply the same rules, the same rules that the court applies, the same as the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data? Would this, if it happened, lead to greater clarity, transparency and work in the media? I think it's gonna happen. The truth is that the Regulation itself requires Member States to assess the benefits of the application of both rights.. freedom of information and expression and freedom of privacy and privacy. We have heard here how the Constitution guarantees both rights. But both rights are not absolute, they are applied according to the principle that one cannot be at the expense of the other. Yes, they are fundamental rights of the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, of the citizens of the European Union, but neither can dominate over the other. The Commission's proposal for the protection of personal data provides criteria for achieving precisely this necessary balance in a reasonable, transparent and objective way. I ask you to take this into account in your vote in plenary today. With this, I would like to say that the rules are not censorship, they are a guarantee of objectivity, transparency and sustainability of legislation. In order to emphasise, for example, the decision of the Italian legislator, in this case, I took the liberty of downloading it from the website, which says so: the Italian Supervisory Authority, given that there is a media law in Italy, by the way, encourages the adoption by the National Council of Journalists of rules on the processing of data, which provide measures to ensure the interests of individuals whose data is processed especially in relation to their healthy life or sexual orientation rights. The rules also have and may include special forms for the exercise of the rights of data subjects, namely to know what personal data are processed, by whom they are processed and to whom they are disclosed. The rules, notice or the amendments and additions thereto, if they have not been adopted by the Council of Journalists within six months of the entry into force of the law in Italy, shall be adopted by the supervisory authority itself, i.e. by their Personal Data Protection Commission and shall replace those rules which have not been adopted. I would say that what I have just presented to you is a much more serious regulation than the Bulgarian Personal Data Protection Act provided for. I therefore thank you for your attention and for the opportunity to present the Commission's position. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mrs. Savateva, you have made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The subject of freedom of expression is very sensitive and it is quite natural for it to have hot debates. As it is already clear, today the debate is somewhat halved because half the room is empty, but ultimately they lose the absent because the point of this debate is to hear many different opinions. I'll try to be a little more specific. The fact is that there is more emotional talk on this topic than rational, more abstract than concrete, and I would say with responsibility. Look around, open up, any newspaper today, enter any site, and you will see that publications are abounding with personal data. And at the moment, although the regulation Mr. Karadjov and his previous colleagues are talking about has entered into force since May last year, the Bulgarian media is currently full of personal data. This does not mean that these publications are not achieved and are not made in balance and in compliance with respect for the freedom of privacy. I'll give you an example I saw on the websites a few days ago. I read that a representative from BSP has undergone medical intervention at the MMA. It's about Mr. Slavcho Velkov. I wish him a quick recovery. In this publication there were two personal data.. the name of the people's representative and the diagnosis, the diagnosis, I speak in the sense of a specific disease. In this case... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u47	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u48	...the publication was achieved in balance with the requirements for respect for privacy because Mr. Velkov himself had published these data in his Facebook profile. As someone who's used to checking information, I asked myself if this Facebook profile was real. I did the appropriate check, it turns out that this information has indeed been published, it is visible to a more limited range of people, i.e. to Mr. Velkov's friends, but he has decided to share these personal data anyway. If I have to be specific, I'll tell you which points in the famous art. 25z, para. 2 in this case, journalists have observed to publish with a clear conscience that they do not violate the Law................................................................................................. specific personal data for this MP and public representative. The criterion set out in point 3: the circumstances in which personal data have become known to the data controller (s) it is clear that these personal data have become known through a public publication on Facebook. Point 7 of these same reproaching criteria, reproached in quotes, of course, if we follow the presidential veto, states: "Reflecting whether the data subject by his actions has contributed to disclosure of his personal data or information about his personal life, that is, we are constantly seeing such information. I will also give an example of something that happened very soon, for example, the incident that happened in Kyustendil. As you can see, in the early hours there was information about the incident in Kyustendil, in which a man was killed. But the victim's name came up a few hours later. We're talking about personal data again, but these personal data are already in line, if you will, with the fact that this person's loved ones have been informed that there is no collapse entering the privacy of a family and disclosure of information. I am sure that all the media that have written about the incident in Kyustendil have hardly complied with, hardly have they thought of these criteria that we are currently commenting on, but journalistic responsibility, journalistic conscience and professionalism, of course, require that a person be responsible for the data he publishes. When the media decided, they collected accurate information about the victim's identity, they felt that this information, i.e. getting identity data is more important than preserving the privacy of the family, they reported Valeri Dubov's name if I wasn't mistaken in the case. The right to information and freedom of expression must be defended and this is one of the main tasks of non-governmental organisations, but bringing empty fears is just as dangerous as the violation of these rights, and I am convinced of that. Because there is maliciousness in my opinion and unfair attitude to the profession that regulation is presented as a ban, and that is not correct. The regulation gives media and journalists the opportunity to navigate, as Mr Karadjov said during the Commission, this is not about a control sheet on which we must blindly comply, it is about orientations that will give us greater protection. Because all that we are talking about is happening every day in dozens of Bulgarian editorials. I will only add that if someone should be concerned by these texts, these are colleagues or rather colleagues in quotes who are seeking expression in the yellow register and who are tempted to disclose personal data or personal information because of the personal information itself. It is clear that personal information can be disclosed when there is a judgment that public interest prevails. In public speaking about the Bill two very important accents are missed. Firstly, that the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data is working on complaints. Mr. Karadjov mentioned a very telling statistic of 15 thousand complaints are against the media, 10% of them are respected. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u49	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u50	There are only two fines imposed. In this case, it must also be noted that the Commission's decisions are not in the interest of the Court of Justice, and they are appealed to two courts. There are sufficient arguments for the media and journalists concerned to defend their right to disclose specific personal data. The fact that the texts of the Law were opposed by organizations that did not attend the working groups is quite unprestigable for themselves. I can't imagine you being part of the professional community of journalists and not following the legislation that concerns you, because anyway we have to work on certain rights if we want to be protected. The representatives of the Association of European Journalists themselves admitted that they had not attended the working groups. They only attended the meeting that was held last week, and frankly, I did not hear any serious arguments in defence of the thesis that there was a pre-regulation of the right to express. I will give one last example with regard to NGOs. I am not, of course, against them, I believe that their existence and their work is very important, but it is also related to responsibilities. Last week, I read that in another report by Reporters Without Borders, Victoria's murder was considered suspicious. After so much information being released, after so much evidence being collected, if these non-governmental organizations base their rankings on such data, I seriously doubt that the 111th place spoken of in this ranking is motivated and justified. It is not right to abuse information, but to seek as much objective and so balanced compliance with our right of expression with the protection of personal data. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in. Perhaps you'd like to extend the group's time? Extend group time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief because I believe that in the report I presented from the Internal Commission meeting, it was very clear with all the arguments that were put out there and the debates that were held. Finally, I would like to thank the Commission for protecting personal data for their activity and the opportunity to be available and actively involved in the working group, which was in the Internal Commission and for four months to have a meaningful and thorough debate. They made mutual compromises and, if we remember when we adopted the Law at second reading in a large part of the texts, it was changed, thanks to the teamwork of experts, representatives of NGOs, all those who wanted to find this balance. Following what Desislava Atanasova said about all those who are the experts and the nominations made by President Radev, I would like to share to you that Constitutional Decision No 4 of 2012. This is the decision that has been discussed, this is the decision that has been debated, precisely for this balance that needs to be reached between citizens and the media. In this particular Constitutional decision, when it was taken, a participant in the meeting was also our esteemed Professor Drumeva. I find it very strange that Professor Drumeva was defending another thesis, which is slightly different from the Constitutional Decision No 4 of 2012, and this was marked, as well as by Ventsislav Karadzhov, the Chairman of the Commission for Personal Data Protection. [[Applause from GERB.]] What I can say is that the final adoption of the second reading of the bill had a full consensus, there was only a topic that was open and remained for debate and after the meeting with a representative from the opposition Mr. Milkov, Mr. Kashumov, also representatives from the Commission for Personal Data Protection and representatives from the Ministry of Interior. Then, in fact, we have given the opportunity to discuss again and to be able in the Chamber, when we look at the Draft at second reading, to have a full consensus. It was also said by Mr. Manev that this was indeed the bill which united absolutely all political forces, regardless of their belonging, to support the Law, which was extremely consensual for all. For me, it is extremely important, and what I stressed is that when the Association of European Journalists, two days before the meeting of the Internal Commission to view the president's veto, they actually went and received support from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. And then Mrs Cornelia Ninova said that they stand firm behind this bill and will support the president in the veto. Unfortunately, not a single representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party complied with the promise and commitment made by Mrs Cornelia Ninova. In fact, BSP colleagues felt worried that they should change their position not on a principle basis, but on a political basis, as Mrs Cornelia Ninova put it. I would also like to express a firm opinion here that the subject and the suggestion that some have tried to make in their comments that the importing of this bill is the Council of Ministers is the Ministry of Interior, and that there is hardly any additional repressive element in the Law, I can say that under the Constitution the executive authority in the face of the relevant ministries has a legislative initiative, and the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data does not have one. That is why, in fact, the Bill, which was prepared by the Commission, together with the experts, was submitted by the Ministry of Interior and was adopted by the Council of Ministers and viewed in the Bulgarian Parliament. Colleagues, I can clearly state that the adoption of the Law, the support for it will give a better balance and guarantee the rights of all those involved in this process. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber! Please, fellow Members, take your seats. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly on 24 January 2019. They voted 132 MPs: 127, against 1, abstention 4. [[Applause from GERB.]] The proposal has been adopted, and thus the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data has been re-accepted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within seven days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Thank you, colleagues. I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u54	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing our work on today's programme. The next item is: ANNUAL YOUTH REPORT 2016 AND ANNUAL YOUTH REPORT 2017 WITH PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS. We will start with the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Report. Mr. Atanasov, the President of the Commission, will brief us on the report. You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting the Annual Youth Report 2016, No 802-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 9 May 2018 discussed and discussed the draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report 2016, No 802-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vanya Koleva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Petar Mladenov and Mrs. Gergana Djuglarska. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mrs. Vanya Koleva. In her presentation Mrs. Koleva informed the MPs that the 2016 Annual Report is based on summary information from all institutions whose activities relate to young people in the country. For the needs of the report a national survey was carried out on the topic "Establishing the effect of youth policies on young people in the country." The questions set out in the study follow the main topics and priorities of the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020. The information is structured on the basis of the indicators of nine priorities. In 2016 was developed and adopted National Youth Programme for the period 2016 - 2020 under which projects were funded for the creation of 36 youth centers in 26 district cities in the country. 39 projects have been financed for the activation of young people in small towns and their participation in voluntary initiatives. The total amount of the funds allocated for 2016 amounts to 695 thousand. lv. The importer pointed out that the activities related to the promotion of youth employment in the country in 2016 were implemented in the context of the initiative................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 36 labour exchanges were held with employers and young people involved in the activation of inactive young people. These included 5257 young people up to 29 years of age, with 3443 starting to work. Programmes and measures for employment, internship and apprentices financed by both the state budget and the European Social Fund include 23 108 young people up to 29 years of age. The first two parts of the report are focused on the profile of young people and on the main demographic characteristics of young people in Bulgaria. According to the information in the report, Bulgarian youths do not have serious social deficits. More than 70% of young people believe that their funds are sufficient for full nutrition, the purchase of clothing and shoes, the payment of electricity and the purchase of medicines. The acquisition of higher education is largely a guarantee for employment in Bulgaria. Only 4% of all graduates were unemployed during the poll. The high level of education also proves to be decisive for the satisfaction of young people from their work " 65% of young people are satisfied, and only 29% are dissatisfied. Ms. Koleva pointed out that at the end of 2016 the budget for financing youth activities was increased by 2 million. BGN, which is more than three times more than that in 2011. The Deputy Minister for Youth and Sports also informed the members of the Commission of some of the results achieved in 2016. 40 500 young people have started working on the primary labour market, 23,000 to 29 years of age are included in employment programmes and measures, 4200 are included in different forms of training. In conclusion, Mrs. Koleva said that the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the state policy for young people in the country is related to the achievement of certain results in specific sectoral policies as well as better interaction between the different executive units in terms of measures and activities aimed at improving the lives of young people. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Hristo Prodanov, Ivan Chenchev, Mikhail Hristov. The MPs analyzed the conclusions drawn on the financial situation of young people, their economic activity, also focused on the lack of state support and justice, 85% of young people did not feel protection from the state, according to them. They also supported the idea of applying a differentiated approach to three different age limits, not to be a total of 15 to 29 years, but to divide into three, which would lead to a greater result in the implementation of youth policies. During the discussion it was pointed out that the report provides information on the peculiarities in the educational and social development of young people in the country. After the discussion was completed and a vote with results was held: 13 votes for.. 5 votes against................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report 2016, No 802-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u56	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Please also introduce us to the Annual Report for next 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u57	Colleagues, before this, I request that the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Mrs. Vanya Koleva be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u58	Please vote for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Mrs. Koleva. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Mr. Atanasov, continue reading the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u59	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 19 December 2018 discussed and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2017 and the Draft Decision No 802-00-55 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vanya Koleva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports and Mrs. Gergana Roshmanova. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mrs. Vanya Koleva. In her presentation Mrs. Koleva informed the MPs that the Annual Youth Report 2017 was prepared on the basis of a summary of the measures implemented by the competent institutions responsible for the development and implementation of youth policies, the National Statistical Institute, as well as by a study. The questions set out in the study follow the main topics and priorities of the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020 for increasing civic activity, the role of young people in crime prevention, promoting healthy lifestyles, improving access to information and quality services, promoting economic activity and career development of young people, developing youth volunteering, developing intercultural and international dialogue, developing young people in small towns and rural areas, as well as preventing the social exclusion of young people in disadvantaged situations. The purpose of the report is to show the specific problems, socio-economic realities, the lifestyle of young people, as well as their attitudes and values. The report shall provide information on programmes, projects and measures for employment and training financed by the State budget. There is a tendency to increase the activity of institutions in providing social services to children, young people and families aimed at supporting vulnerable groups. The Deputy Minister of Youth and Sport shall also inform the members of the Commission of the results achieved with regard to initiatives, trainings and services provided by the Youth Information and Consulting Centres where 214 133 young people participated. Of these 58 912 were young disadvantaged people, 21 805 were unemployed, 41 955 were employed, 105 202 were students, and 41 221 were students. The report reports that Bulgarian youths do not have serious social deficits, with 70% of young people thinking that their funds are sufficient for full nutrition, buying clothing, buying shoes, paying electricity and buying medicines. Young people who are in a difficult social situation are mostly part of ethnic minorities, which is the main factor for their low social status. It has reduced the number and relative share of dropouts from 2.9% in 2016 to 2.7% in 2017. The report provides statistics from the Employment Agency, which shows that the unemployed are shrinking by almost 16% in 29 years, taking into account that about 42% of the working young people do not intend to change their jobs while around 13% are in the process of looking for a new job. There is a tendency to increase the number of returning young people in Bulgaria after completing their education abroad. The share of young people who are not interested in politics is still high. The main focus and priority of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in 2017 in the fight and prevention of all forms of aggression and addiction among young people is the National Program for the implementation of youth activities under art. 10a of the Gambling Act with a budget of 2 million. lv. The program is aimed at young people aged 15 to 29 years and is implemented in three areas "Inform young people".. Motivate young people.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Scholarships were granted to 426 students with prominent gifts. As regards the Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases, activities are carried out aimed at limiting risk factors related to lifestyles, unhealthy eating, low physical activity, alcohol use and others. Different educational methods and forms of training are used: lectures, lectures and discussions with a total number of participants 65 500. The report shall provide information on the number of acts carried out by the children's pedagogical room in association with minors. The need for cooperation of institutions to conduct policies on the personal and professional development of young people and to prevent the causes of crime and social exclusion is reported. In conclusion, Mrs. Koleva pointed out that the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports will continue to be aimed at encouraging students for systematic activities with sports, creating habits for healthy motor activity and opportunities for sports performance. The subsequent discussion by the MP Vesela Lecheva expressed reservations about the objectivity of the data presented in the report. National Representative Sevim Ali made a recommendation to request opinions from the youth organizations of the parliamentary groups in preparation of Report 2018, and Mrs. Svetlana Angelova expressed her satisfaction with the results reported in the Report, adding that they should continue their efforts in this direction. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 10-vote vote held, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports asked the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to adopt the Annual Youth Report for 2017, No 802-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018 and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The draft decision that we are looking at is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. The 2016 and 2017 reports will introduce us to Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will present to you the reports of the Committee on Education and Science on the Annual Report on Youth for 2016, No 802-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. At its regular meeting held on 9 May 2018, the Education and Science Committee examined the Annual Youth Report 2016, No 802-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petar Mladenov, Head of the Department of Public Policy at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and Mrs. Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. Mr. Petar Mladenov pointed out that the report was drawn up on the basis of the summary information from all institutions whose activities relate to young people in the country. For the needs of the report, a national representative survey on the topic "Establishment of the impact of youth policies on young people in the country" has also been carried out. The structure is also in line with the main priorities and strategic objectives of policies for young people laid down in the National Youth Strategy (2010 - 2020).). The information from the survey showed that the number of young people in the country aged 15 to 29 as of 31 December 2016 was 1,125 125 people, or 15.8%, of which 849 989 lived in the cities and 275 136 people in the villages. The target group in the period until 2020 will decrease, particularly sharply affecting the age groups 15 - 19 years and the age group 20 - 24 years. With regard to education, 63% of people living in villages and 59% of people living in small towns do not think that they can get a good education in their locality. In the capital, 79% believe that they can get a good education and only 11% that they can't. A positive trend is in terms of reducing youth unemployment, which is in line with the active process of implementing measures and policies by the institutions. As a negative, 54% do not work in their specialty, but only 30% have been realized in relation to their education. The acquisition of higher education is largely a guarantee of employment. Only 4% of all graduates at the time of the study were unemployed. In 2016 36 youth information consulting centres were funded in the territory of 28 major cities and 39 youth voluntary initiatives. Young people's attitudes towards civil processes in Bulgaria are more optimistic than pessimistic. Among those entitled to vote, nearly 50% vote always or often. In conclusion, Mr. Mladenov stressed that the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the state policy for young people in the country is related to the achievement of certain results in specific sectoral policies as well as to better interaction and synchronization between the different executive units in terms of measures and activities aimed at improving the life of the target group. In the subsequent discussion, the people representative Irena Anastasova asked a question: what are the most severe problems related to the young people, who should be looking for a solution? Mr. Mladenov pointed to the civic activity of the young people, the group of the non-learners and the less faith of the young people in the institutions as the main problems of today's generation. Prof. Stanilov expressed his opinion that business is important not only to talk about the problems, but also to give high salaries to young people so they do not leave but to stay in the country. People's representative Milena Damyanova stressed that young people have different understandings and different requirements, these are new generations. With bans and restrictions we will not keep them in Bulgaria. It is important that the business enters the system of education and motivates them, including with payment, to be convinced that the education they have received will bring them incomes, will bring them a good standard of living and personal happiness here in Bulgaria. National Representative Galya Zaharieva pointed out that Bulgaria has some of the most capable and knowledgeable young people. We, as a society, their parents, must make sure that they are motivated enough to come back here and apply their knowledge, but that we are ready to give them the chance to do so. Because very often in different spheres, including in our field, we do not give young and prepared people a chance to work, only led, unfortunately, by the fear that they are better than us. Following a 14-for-stakes vote, no anti-stakes vote, the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly that the Annual Youth Report 2016 be adopted, No 802-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. I will now introduce you to the second Youth Report for 2017, No 802-00-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. At its regular meeting held on 23 January 2019, the Education and Science Commission examined the Annual Report on Youth for 2017, No 802-00-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Mrs. Vanya Koleva Deputy Minister, Mr. Petar Mladenov, Head of the Department of Education and Science, Mrs. Gergana Roshmanova, Senior Expert Directorate of Policies and Ms. Ralitsa Mutafchieva Secretary; from the Ministry of Education and Science: Ms. Tanya Mihailova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Directorate of Pre-school and School Education and Ms. Yordanka Petrova. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mrs. Vanya Koleva, who pointed out that it is the result of summary information on the measures implemented by the competent institutions responsible for the development and implementation of youth policies. The purpose of the report is to show the specific problems for this target group, socio-economic realities, the lifestyle of young people, as well as their attitudes and values. More than 70% of young people feel that their means of life are sufficient. Young people who are in a difficult social situation are mainly ethnic minorities. In 2017, the number and relative share of school dropouts were reduced compared to the total number of students by 2,9% in 2016. (or 21,170 people) to 2,7% (or 20,092 people) which has interrupted the trend of steady increase in this indicator over the past four years. Decision No 373 of the Council of Ministers of 5 July 2017 established a mechanism for the joint work of institutions covering and holding in the educational system of children and students in compulsory pre-school and school age. The graduates who continue to study in Bulgaria are 51% and 14% are going to study abroad. Youth unemployment in 2017 fell by almost 16%. More than 50% of young workers declare that they have found their work easier than their expectations for this process. In Bulgaria, young people with primary and secondary education are more likely to go abroad. The majority of people with higher education have an attitude to stay in Bulgaria. There is a tendency to increase the number of returning young people in Bulgaria after completing their education abroad. The project of the National Program is prepared together for each child for 2018 worth 450 000 BGN in order to support the joint work of the institutions on the implementation of the Entrepreneurship and Detainment Mechanism in the educational system of children and students and to engage the parents in this process. The policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is aimed at encouraging students for systematic activities with sport, creating habits for healthy motor activity and opportunities for sports performance. In implementation of this policy, the Ministry administers every year the programs "Sports for children at risk" and "Development of sports of students." Ms. Koleva stressed that the strategic vision of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is aimed at building and implementing a unified, consistent and sustainable youth policy in Bulgaria, based on cooperation and joint management with young people at national, regional, regional and municipal level. Members of parliament Milena Damyanova, Anelia Klisarova, Tanya Petrova and Donka Simeonova took part in the discussion. National Representative Donka Simeonova congratulated that the report is based on serious research and analysis. It is important to draw conclusions and identify the measures to be taken. The People's Representative Milena Damyanova addressed a recommendation to the Ministry of Education and Science. In addition to STEM, which has been said a lot in recent months, to start talking more about civil education, because this is also a priority in GERB's management program for many years. The Ministry of Youth and Sports report clearly proves that there is a need for this. Prof. Klisarova expressed his opinion that serious attention should be paid to the professional orientation, to the early career development and to the students from an earlier age so that they know that they have perspective and if they are at school, they will receive knowledge and opportunity for realization in society. National Representative Tanya Petrova raised a question whether Varna has become a strategic center for business and young people after conducting more than 140 initiatives for the time when it is a European youth capital. Deputy Minister Vanya Koleva and Deputy Minister Tanya Mihailova answered the questions raised by the MPs. After a vote with results: 11............... and 9 abstentions.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We are to get acquainted with the Commission's reports on labour, social and demographic policy on the draft decision adopting the 2016 Annual Report. In 2017, we will be introduced by the President of the Commission Dr. Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting the Annual Youth Report 2016, No 802-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 9 May 2018, discussed and discussed a draft decision adopting the 2016 Annual Youth Report with the importer of the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vanya Koleva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, who presented the Annual Youth Report for 2016. She pointed out that the report was drawn up on the basis of aggregated information from all institutions whose activities relate to young people in the country. For the needs of the report, a national representative survey on the topic "Establishment of the impact of youth policies on young people in the country" has also been carried out. The structure is also in line with the main priorities and strategic objectives of policies for young people laid down in the 2010 National Youth Strategy. The information in the Annual Youth Report is in line with the main priorities of the policy for young people in the country, promoting economic activity and career development of young people, improving access to information and quality services, promoting healthy lifestyles, preventing the social exclusion of young people in disadvantaged situations, developing youth volunteering, increasing civic activity, developing young people in small towns and rural areas, developing international and intercultural dialogue and increasing the role of young people in crime prevention. According to information in the report, the number of young people in the country aged 15 to 29 as of 31 December 2016 was 1,125 125 people or 15.8%, of which 849 989 live in cities and 275 136 people living in villages. The NSI's target forecast shows that in the period until 2020, the number of young people will decrease, especially with a sharp impact on the age groups 15 years and 20 years. In connection with the implementation of the Priority, the promotion of the economic activity and career development of young people. The positive trend in terms of reducing youth unemployment, which is in line with the active process of implementing measures and policies by the institutions, has been observed. The unemployment rate for young people from 15 to 29 years of age is 12.2%, which is 2.2% lower compared to 2015. What is reported as a negative is that 54% do not work in their specialty and only 30% have been realized in relation to their education. There is a need to improve coordination between institutions to increase the effectiveness of early career guidance measures, as well as investment in appropriate forms of training to acquire professional skills and key competences and develop entrepreneurial spirit. During the reporting period, the number and capacity of the social services provided to disadvantaged young people have increased, as well as the amount of the financial resources allocated for that purpose. As of the end of December 2016, the total number of social services in the community, including from a resident type, is 1,095 with a total capacity of 22 771 seats. The total amount of funds for 2016 to finance social services provided in the community as delegated by the state activity is BGN 123 670 022, i.e. 35 427 574. more than 2015 Nearly half of all young people surveyed do not seek information about social services, social and professional integration, specialized consultations, opportunities for youth participation, international initiatives or volunteering. Only sporting events are more sought after. It can be noted that regarding opportunities for participation in international initiatives, meetings and other events, in the largest proportion of young people appreciate that they find it rather difficult to find information. In conclusion, Mrs. Koleva said that the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the state policy for young people in the country is related to the achievement of certain results in the specific sectoral policies as well as to better interaction and synchronization between the different executive units in terms of measures and activities aimed at improving the life of the target group. This cooperation needs to be developed and refined not only at national but also at regional and local level by applying more flexible models of coordination and partnership between all stakeholders. In this regard, it is necessary to take action to redefine the goals and measures in the youth sphere in order to strengthen the positive effect of the policies applied to young people in Bulgaria. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Asks the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report 2016, No 802 00 19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018 ♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting the 2017 Annual Youth Report, No 802-00-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting on 23 January 2019 discussed and discussed a draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report for 2017, No 802-00-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vanya Koleva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, who presented the Annual Youth Report for 2017. She pointed out that the information in the Annual Youth Report is in line with the main priorities of the country's youth policy, laid down in the National Youth Strategy (2010 - 2020) "Promoting economic activity and career development of young people, improving access to information and quality services, promoting a healthy lifestyle, preventing the social exclusion of disadvantaged young people, developing youth volunteering, increasing civic activity, developing young people in small towns and rural areas, developing international and intercultural dialogue and increasing the role of young people in crime prevention. According to information in the report, the number of young people in the country aged 15 to 29 as of 31 December 2017 was 1,083 467, of which 817 335 lived in cities and 266 132 in villages. The NSI's target forecast shows that in the period until 2020, the number of young people will decrease, especially with a sharp impact on the age groups 15 years and 20 years. The report provides statistics from the Employment Agency, which shows that unemployed people up to 29 are shrinking by almost 16%, taking into account that about 42% of working young people do not intend to change their jobs while around 13% are in the process of looking for new jobs at the time of the study. The unemployment rate for young people aged 15-29 is 9.9%, which is 2.3% lower compared to 2016. Deputy Minister Koleva informed the members of the Commission of the results achieved with regard to initiatives, trainings and services provided by the Youth Information and Consultancy Centers, where 214 133 young people participated. Of these 58 912 were young disadvantaged people, 21 805 were unemployed, 41 955 were employed, 105 202 were students, and 41 221 were students. As of the end of December 2017, the total number of social services in the community for children and adults, including from a resident type, is 1 120, with a total capacity of 23 167 seats. As of December 2017, 817 social services operate on the territory of the country, including from a resident type delegated by the state, suitable for children and young people aged 18 to 25. The report reports that Bulgarian youths do not have serious social deficits, with 70% of young people thinking that their funds are sufficient for full nutrition, buying clothing, buying shoes, paying electricity and buying medicines. Young people who are in a difficult social situation are mostly part of ethnic minorities, which is the main factor for their low social status. One of the key issues among young people is related to their moods towards emigration, 33% point out that at the first opportunity they would go to live abroad and 18% in another locality in the country. This is especially valid for young people living in villages and small settlements. There is a tendency to increase the number of returning young people in Bulgaria after completing their education abroad. The share of young people who are not interested in politics is still high. There is a need to improve coordination between institutions to increase the effectiveness of early career guidance measures, as well as investment in appropriate forms of training to acquire professional skills and key competences and develop entrepreneurial spirit. In conclusion, Mrs. Koleva said that young people in Bulgaria, such as their peers in Europe, face countless challenges related to their education, realization, quality of life and so on. The Young People's Group is one of the most dynamic because of the rapid transition from one role to another This implies a clear analysis and a definition of clearly achievable targets in relation to each of the designated groups that come into the general population as young. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Vesela Lecheva expressed reservations about the objectivity of the data presented in the Report. National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova expressed his satisfaction with the reported results in the report, adding that they should continue their efforts in this direction. After the discussion and vote with results: 10 votes for the vote, 5 votes against the vote and 3 votes abstention, The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the 2017 Annual Youth Report, No 802 00 55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u64	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Opinions on the two reports have also been received for 2016 and 2017 by the Committee on Health. They will be introduced to us by Commissioner Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u65	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the 2016 Annual Youth Report and the Draft Decision No 802-00-19 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. At its regular meeting on 10 May 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2016 and the Draft Decision No 802-00-19 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health, Mrs. Vanya Koleva, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations, etc. The 2016 Annual Youth Report was presented by Mrs. Vanya Koleva. It informs the members of the Commission that the report drawn up is a combination of summary information from the competent institutions responsible for youth policies, as well as from a study carried out by a research centre on behalf of the Ministry of Youth and Sport on the topic of Strengthening the impact of youth policies on young people in the country. The study is based on issues that follow the main topics and priorities in the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020. The annual report on youth shall take into account the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the National Youth Strategy 2010 - 2020 in accordance with art. 5, para. 3 of the Youth Act. It is important to note that, according to § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Youth Act, young people are persons aged 15 to 29 years including. The report shows that the share of young people in the European Union has been steadily decreasing in recent years. In Bulgaria, for 2016 young people aged between 15 and 29 years are 1 million 125 thousand and 125. Of these, 849 thousand and 989 live in cities. The rest of them live in the villages. The National Youth Strategy 2010. 2020 sets out nine strategic objectives, according to which the main part of the 2016 Youth Report is structured. In the implementation of a strategic goal of promoting a healthy lifestyle, the report shows that various campaigns among young people have been conducted in this direction. In 2016 the Ministry of Health with the partnership of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and the representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria finalized the National Student Competition In 2016, the Ministry of Health conducted a national anti-smoking campaign, offices for free consulting and quit smoking were promoted. During March 2016 the Ministry of Health and the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis together with teams of 28 regional health inspections in the country organize and conduct a Third National Study to assess the prevalence of obesity among children in the first grade, within the framework of the World Health Organization's initiative to monitor obesity in children. In 2016 a total of 948 information campaigns were conducted on topics related to HIV and sexually transmitted diseases, of which three are national. The report shows that 6% of young people in the country suffer from chronic diseases. 90% of the representatives of the target group of young people appreciate their health as excellent and very good. In terms of physical activity practitioners sport young people are 32% according to the report data, 66% do not sport. Nearly half (46%) of Bulgarian young people smoke cigarettes, with their share rising as they grow older. Twelve percent of young people, according to the report, used light drugs, 1% declared heavy drugs. It should be borne in mind that the results obtained may be lower than the actual use of drugs, as this type of issue may have an effect of concern in some young people. In conclusion, the data from the report under consideration regarding harmful habits shows that Bulgarian youths are aware of the negatives associated with drug use, alcohol, cigarettes and sexual contact without protection. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 13 votes for the 2016 Annual Youth Report, No 802-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u66	Please continue with the 2017 Report, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on the 2017 Annual Youth Report and the Draft Decision No 802-00-55 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. At its regular meeting on 7 February 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2017 and the Draft Decision No 802-00-55 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, Dr. Boyko Penkov and Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Stoyan Andonov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient and non-governmental organizations. The annual youth report for 2017 was presented by Mr. Stoyan Andonov "Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports." The report shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 5, para. 2 of the Youth Act and approved annually by the National Assembly. Its aim is to show the specific problems for this target group, the lifestyle of young people and their attitudes and values, as well as to take into account the measures taken to achieve the objectives of public youth policy. The statistical data in the Report reports that Bulgaria follows the general trend of ageing of the population for the European Union. Young people between the ages of 15 and 29 are constantly decreasing, with about 40,000 young people per year for our country. The level of migration of young people from small towns to cities is preserved, with more than three quarters of young people living in cities and only a quarter in villages. During the reporting period, the Ministry of Health has implemented a significant number of health promotion and prevention activities in the country among children and students within the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases (2014 - 2020).). The activities of the National Student Competition. Ambassadors of health. Supporting the healthy lifestyle of young people and in particular. The prevention and withdrawal of smoking continues in 2017. Partners in the framework of the competition are the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Youth and Sports, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environment and Water, as well as the representation of the European Commission in Bulgaria. In the field of youth activities and healthy lifestyle, the Ministry of Youth and Sports supports a new National Program, developed as an additional tool for promoting the socially responsible behavior of young people and preventing different types of addictions. In 2017, the percentage of young people suffering from chronic diseases in the country was maintained.6%, taking into account lower levels of commitment to health. With regard to preventive examinations, 53% declare that they benefit from their right to a profile examination and only 19% visit a dentist. Representatives of the target group, which define their health status as excellent and very good, compared to the same from the previous year, report a 90% increase in 2016 to 93% for 2017. As regards physical activity, the information shown in the document shows that 67% of young people in Bulgaria do not sport and only 38% of them are interested in healthy eating. The percentage of smoking Bulgarian young people is maintained. 46% and as the age progresses it increases. According to the report, 11% of young people used light drugs and 1% declared heavy drugs. The main conclusions in the document draw the attention of the competent institutions to the need to take coordinated and targeted actions to encourage and educate responsible behavior, corresponding to the modern policy oriented for the benefit of young people in Bulgaria. Following the discussion and the vote held on the following results: 12 votes for the 2017 Annual Youth Report, No 802-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Opinions have been received on the 2016 and 2017 Annual Youth Report by the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Who's gonna introduce us to them? Is there a Commissioner? Opinions have also been received from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Iskren Veselinov will introduce us to the opinions of the Commission, of which he is President. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for young people for 2017, No 802-00-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 31 January 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2017, No 802-00-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. The meeting of the Commission was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General, Mrs. Petar Mladenov, Director of the Directorate of Policies, Mrs. Panayotka Panayotova, Head of the Investment Policy Department, and Mrs. Gergana Roshmanova, Chief Expert in the Directorate of Policies. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Markov. The annual report on youth for 2017 shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 5 of the Youth Act. The report is a combination of aggregated information from all institutions whose activities relate to young people in the country, data from the National Statistical Institute, Eurostat and other national and international studies related to the topic of the document and the reporting period, and from a national representative survey among young people in the country, the Ministry of Youth and Sport is the contracting authority. The structure of the report is in line with the main priorities of the policy for young people in the country, laid down in the National Youth Strategy (2010 - 2020).), adopted by the Council of Ministers. The main aspects and priorities laid down in the National Youth Strategy (2010 - 2020)) are improving the quality of life of young people through sustainable mechanisms for investing in youth as significant social capital for the development of the country, promoting economic activity and career development, improving access to information and quality services, promoting a healthy lifestyle, preventing the social exclusion of young people in disadvantaged situations, developing youth volunteering, increasing civic activity, developing young people in small towns and rural areas, developing international and intercultural dialogue and enhancing the role of young people in crime prevention. The report presents structured and comprehensive information on the results of all main priorities and the measures and activities taken by the state institutions and municipalities in the country for their implementation for 2017. The relevant conclusions and recommendations for the activities of the individual priorities are made, providing for the actions to be taken by the responsible institutions to improve the conditions for life and realization of young people in the country. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised by Commissioners, who answered the representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes in favour and 7 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision approving the Annual Youth Report for 2017, No 802-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. We will now return to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Mr. Nunev, you have the floor to introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "COMMODITY" on the 2016 Annual Youth Report and the Draft Decision No 802-00-19 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. At its regular meeting on 2 May 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Report on Youth for 2016 and the Draft Decision No 802 00-19 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 April 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Petar Mladenov. The annual report was presented by Mr. Peter Mladenov. The report is summarized information from the competent institutions responsible for youth policies, as well as from the survey conducted "Establishment of the impact of youth policies on young people in the country" which aims to clearly show the specifics of the target group (15 years old) problems, socio-economic realities, the lifestyle of young people as well as their attitudes and values. The questions set out in the study follow the main topics and priorities set out in the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020: promoting economic activity and career development of young people; improving access to information and quality services; promoting a healthy lifestyle; preventing the social exclusion of young people in disadvantaged situations; developing youth volunteering; increasing civic activity; developing young people in small towns and rural areas; developing intercultural and international dialogue and increasing the role of young people in crime prevention. Bulgaria's membership in the European Union applies the standards, values, criteria and principles of modern policy for the benefit of young people. Conceptual policy is based on the following points: youth is a valuable resource; every young person is important; encouraging youth potential; investing in youth; creating an opportunity and providing access to the formation and implementation of state youth policy. National Strategy for Youth (2010 - 2020) is currently in place in Bulgaria.) which represents the first long-term vision for the development of young people. The data referred to in the Annual Report outline the main conclusions drawn aimed at improving and laying the foundations for new youth policies, taking into account the dynamics in the development of the different profiles of young people and objectively existing socio demographic characteristics. With regard to internal security and public order, the study shows that the institutional authority of the police is stable. More than 50% of young people would turn to this institution. However, the study recorded a large share of passivity and inertness in terms of the responsible civil behaviour of young people regarding their response to an infringement that they witnessed. 48% of young people would file a complaint in court if their personal rights were violated. A relatively high share of 21 per cent would defend themselves, including through violence. The study shows rather latent and passive readiness for young people to participate in volunteering. In the presence of a good environment for attitude to the problem and activation of readiness, we can conclude that there is a great potential for involving young people in voluntary initiatives. The Ministry of Youth and Sport also supports the National Youth Information Page from which valuable information can be found for the benefit of young people. People's representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Ivan Ivanov and Todor Bajchev took part in the debates. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 8 votes for the Council of Ministers, 4 votes against the Council of Ministers, and without abstention, supported the 2016 Annual Youth Report and the Draft Decision No 802"19 tabled by the Council of Ministers on 24 April 2018. "COMMODITY" on the 2017 Annual Youth Report and the Draft Decision No 802-00-55 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 December 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Report on Youth for 2017 and the Draft Decision No 802 00-55 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2018. The meeting was attended by a representative from the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Petar Mladenov. The annual report was presented by Mr. Mladenov. The report is a summary of the implemented policies, measures and activities aimed at young people in the country implemented by the responsible institutions in order to meet the objectives of state youth policy. The report also contains detailed data from the national representative survey conducted among young people in the country, commissioned by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as well as data from the National Statistical Institute, Eurostat and other national and international studies related to the topic of the document and the reporting period. Bulgaria's membership in the European Union applies the standards, values, criteria and principles of modern policy for the benefit of young people. Young people in Bulgaria face many challenges related to their education, realization and quality of life. Many European and global studies have shown a change in youth attitudes in recent years. Communication technologies, globalisation, change in the dynamics of life and thus have a major impact on the lives of today's youth. Their requirements in the sphere of security, professional realization and quality of life are increased. It is not to underestimate the problem of young people who remain marginalized, with low education and lack of work. Conceptual policy is based on the following principles and priorities: youth is a valuable resource; every young person is important; encouraging youth potential; investing in youth; creating an opportunity and providing access to the formation and implementation of state youth policy. With regard to internal security and public order, the study shows that the institutional authority of the police is stable. More than 50% of young people would turn to this institution. However, the study recorded a large share of passivity and inertness in terms of the responsible civil behaviour of young people regarding their response to an infringement that they witnessed. The study also shows a rather latent passive readiness for young people to participate in volunteering. In the presence of a good environment for attitude to the problem and activation of readiness, we can conclude that there is a great potential for involving young people in voluntary initiatives. The activities of the National Program "Work of police in schools" is an essential part of the preventive activities of police officers in relation to crimes committed by and against children. 8073 lectures were given in 1529 schools with the participation of 762 police officers. The police officer's hour was held in 6934 classes from I to XII in schools in the country. The brochures for prevention of the use of drugs, alcohol and cigarettes include rules on safe behavior of children and parents. The program is successfully carried out with the aim of children's police headquarters for value treatment of the laws, the formation of habits for safe conduct, building a civil position and increasing confidence in the police. There are also a number of municipal, regional and Republican competitions of young firefighters formed. The Academy of the Ministry of Interior has regular training courses and professional qualifications of the staff of the Ministry of Interior, related to specialized hearing of children victims or at risk of violence. The conclusions in the report suggest the need for coordinated and targeted actions of competent institutions, including legislative initiatives to educate and activate civil behaviour, adequate to the values and principles of modern policy towards young people. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers and 8 votes abstentions supported the submitted Annual Youth Report for 2017 and the Draft Decision No 802-55 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. These were all committee reports. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor. Are there any speeches? Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Vice Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start with a brief quote from the report, which reads: "Many European studies show a change in the attitudes of young people in the last decade. Yes, young people's attitudes have changed rapidly. The question is how quickly we have adapted to this change and what we have done over the past ten years. The fact that the 2016 report is being adopted almost three years later is, to put it mildly, illogical, and we of the DPS do not know how up-to-date this report is given the rapid change in the attitude of young people. The free time of young people is a field of development of personal choice, as long as the necessary infrastructure, quality services and information is available. But the necessary infrastructure is gone, it was not in the small settlements in 2016, it is not today, so the necessary infrastructure is gone. It follows that the finding of young people's free time in most small settlements in Bulgaria is currently not true. The realities and problems are clearly defined in the Report. The directions of action are clear and only the actions are very late, and for years. The report lists 275 thousand 136 young people up to 29 years of age who live in villages. This separate set, as you call it, has far different problems than young people, for example, who live in Sofia. Young people from different areas and cities should not and should not be placed under a common denominator, because unemployment and low incomes are a priority in small towns. When we talk about young people, we believe that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms must have a differentiated approach. Yes, all these statistics in the Report are necessary, but it rather shows that we have been treading together for years with a high rate of youth unemployment compared to previous years there are fewer and fewer young people, children, students who finish their secondary education in small towns. This is due to the difference in access to education in cities and villages, which is becoming more and more distinct. These are the facts, honourable Members, in the Report. Another disturbing fact in the report, according to which Bulgaria is among the countries in which at least young people have not smoked at least once in their lives - 55%. It's the same with alcohol and drugs. In Bulgaria, the percentage of 16-year-olds who tried some alcohol at least once in their lives retains about 86%, the difference between boys and girls, honourable colleagues, is only 3%. And here is the question: why are we writing these reports, if they are not helping and do not reverse the negative trend? I'll give you the following example right away. The report says that in the Children's Pedagogical Room there are nearly 9,000 young people. The point is that there is not a word in the Report about this, so what is the result of this conduct? In our opinion, according to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, each of these worrying findings must be accompanied, firstly, by measures, but measures that are quick and effective and below each problem should indicate the results achieved. Thirty percent of Bulgarian youths declare that at the first opportunity they would go to live abroad. I am convinced that if an up-to-date consultation is made now, this percentage will be much higher. National programs, regulations, plans are written. The result of these annual reports is a huge amount of documents. Dear colleagues, paperwork is huge, and the effect of it is unfortunately inadequate. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms believe that there is no need for huge work to unite around several current annual programmes, those that are currently up to date. It is particularly important for young people to begin gradually the real work of dealing with the demographic problem. The colleagues who presented the 2017 Report, if you were impressed, compared to 2016, the population of Bulgaria decreased by nearly 52 thousand people, and this is a medium-sized municipality that has disappeared from the map of Bulgaria. That is why we believe that there should be a specific that builds rather than findings recorded in the reports. It is only so that these reports have their effect when accompanied by the concrete work of the institutions on which it depends the alarming tendency for young people's lives to be stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u75	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Youth policy is not only a policy that connects with infrastructure, sports, art, culture, education, IT technology. Youth policy is a set of every aspect of our environment. Youth policies aim to help young people and the youth sector and enable young people to start their lives equally by supporting their activities, adapting them and enabling them to show their skills and competences. Many things can be said about what should be the policy pursued in this sector. Undoubtedly, young people are a priority of the government and the political party GERB. There are a number of examples that we can give, but I will not dwell on them because each of you sees them. I will refer to the two reports that we are dealing with today. For the first time the reports have a positive trend, reflecting the data on the activities carried out by all state institutions and their results. What is undoubtedly ahead of us is a lot of work so that we can strengthen the development of this sector. It is important to note that increasing civic activity is one of the priorities in public youth policy. Dear colleagues, when we talk about young people, we should not talk about negativity. Young people need optimism, a positive perspective and support the most. I welcome the efforts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports to be an inseparable partner to every activity of young people in the country. Thanks to the active dialogue that takes place with the non-governmental sector and numerous trainings and seminars are implemented aimed at raising awareness and supporting the sector. The projects and programmes by the institutions have largely managed to build competences and additional qualifications in young people. Each of us knows that the most important communication skills are being built precisely in this extracurricular activity in which they can gain additional knowledge. When education is, in parallel, the number one priority of the government, I am convinced that subsequent reports will also have the meaning of development in the positive direction. The reports concern several very important topics: the specific problems for this target group, the socio-economic realities, the lifestyle of young people, as well as their attitudes and values. They can see the information in terms of social status, education, employment and migration, rights, processes and communication in young people. With regard to employment data from the administrative statistics of the Employment Agency, it is shown that youth unemployment in our country has significantly decreased compared to 2016. The dynamics of youth unemployment in 2017 show that in December 2017 the unemployed are shrinking by almost 16% compared to January 2017. Forty-two percent of the working young people do not intend to change their jobs. Although it is not the scope of the report, I would like to share with you the statistics for 2018, which really tells us that the situation in the sector is following a consistent and positive trend. The number of unemployed people registered by the age of 29 at the age of 31 December 2018 is nearly 7,000 fewer than the number of young people registered by 31 December 2017. The share of unemployed young people by the age of 29 in the total number of unemployed also decreased by 13.2% in December 2018, compared to December 2017 by 14.2%. Last but not least, I would like to point out that young people in Bulgaria are no different from young people in Europe. They face the same challenges related to education, realization and quality of life. The young people's group is one of the most dynamic and rapidly developing because of the transition and the rapid role that they pass into each other's education, work, family and others. The movement from small towns to large cities is valid for the whole of Europe, not even just for young people. Freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights of the European Union and is a normal element which is monitored by all countries in the Union. The penetration of information and communication technologies, globalisation, as well as the change in dynamics of life, have a serious impact on today's generation. Today they have increased requirements for what is happening around them, but mostly in the sphere of security, professional realization and quality of life. Therefore, in the efforts of all of us, the needs of the young generation need to be deeply involved in the fight against social inequality, social exclusion by creating more opportunities for personal, professional and social development, which is a guarantee of a full life. Young people need security, expressed in our support, independence and a chance for development. I welcome the 2016 and 2017 reports. I am convinced that together we can continue to fight the challenges facing the young generation. We need to listen to it, because it always has something to tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. Mr. Atanasov, please read the decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! ? RESPONSIBILITY? approving the 2016 Annual Youth Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 1 of the Youth Act HAS DECIDED Approves the 2016 Annual Youth Report
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u78	We're going to vote. I put to the vote the decision that Mr. Atanasov just read. They voted 107 MPs: 96, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please read the next decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u79	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! ? RESPONSIBILITY? approving the 2017 Annual Youth Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 1 of the Youth Act HAS DECIDED Approves the 2017 Annual Youth Report
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-20.u80	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. We're going to vote. We are voting on the decision just read from the National Assembly stands. They voted 102 MPs: 92, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we have finished the work for today. Tomorrow a regular meeting of the National Assembly at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
