ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft Declaration of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria concerning the enlargement of the European Union and the Stabilisation and Association Process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. The representatives of the National Assembly are Daniela Daritkova, Dragomir Stoinev, Gemma Grozdanova, Julian Angelov and Polina Tsankova. I propose that it be included as the first item for today's plenary session 10 October 2019. The remaining points shall be renumbered accordingly. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 130, against 3, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECLARATION OF FOURTHIRIDES AND FOUR PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF BULGARIA WITH REGARD TO THE EXTENDATION OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE PROCEEDING OF STABILISATION AND ASSOCIATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF Northern Macedonia AND THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA. To get acquainted with the draft declaration you have the floor, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the importers, I will introduce you to the text of the declaration. Project! The delegation of power at the forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with the enlargement of the European Union and the Stabilisation and Association Process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania Stressing the key importance the Republic of Bulgaria attaches to good neighbourly relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania; Recalling the conditional support for both countries for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, including during the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018; Expressing support for the simultaneous launch of the pre-accession negotiations of the European Union with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania, based on the principle of individual efforts to meet the Copenhagen criteria and the conventions of the Stabilisation and Association Process, including good neighbourly relations, which are of horizontal importance to the Republic of Bulgaria; Taking into account the close co-operation and the expected development of even stronger allied ties within NATO; Expressing its expectation of strengthening economic cooperation and speeding up the construction of strategic infrastructure projects and improving the connectivity of the countries in our region; Stressing that the opening of negotiations should not be interpreted as a guarantee of membership for the European Union, but as an incentive to accelerate reforms, strengthen the rule of law and maintain good neighbourly relations; By resisting in a definite way the possible European legitimization of the ideology of the past with a marked anti-Bulgarian character suppressing the rights of Bulgarian citizens and those with Bulgarian self-awareness and contrary to modern European values; Noting that the rewriting and embezzlement after 1944 of the history of part of the Bulgarian people is among the pillars of the anti-Bulgarian ideological structure of Yugoslav totalitarianism; Having made it clear that the National Assembly's support for European integration will not be at the expense of distorting historical events, documents and artifacts, as well as the role and views of personalities of Bulgarian history, RECOGNITION: 1. Officials of the Republic of Northern Macedonia shall: - to implement effectively, without delay and of good will, the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation since 2017; - to adhere strictly to art. 8 of the Treaty, namely to the objective, based on authentic and evidence-based historical sources for the scientific interpretation of historical events. - refrain from actions that relate to attempts to support and promote claims for recognition of the so-called Macedonian communion in Bulgaria, including international organisations such as the Council of Europe and multilateral formats; - to rehabilitate the victims and repressed by the Yugoslav Communist regime because of their Bulgarian self-consciousness; - to adhere strictly to the clause established and ratified by the parliaments of the two countries in respect of the official language of the Republic of Northern Macedonia; - fully implement the arrangements reached within the Joint Multidisciplinary Expert Committee on Historical and Educational Affairs, which shall be reflected in the curricula and materials as soon as possible; - to end any form of hate speech with regard to Bulgaria and the citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia with Bulgarian self-consciousness, including in media, inscriptions of monuments, memory plates and others. 2. Officials of the Republic of Albania shall: - adopt the secondary legislation on the implementation of the Minority Act in a timely manner; - ensure to the maximum extent the right of the Bulgarian national minority to study without putting administrative obstacles the Bulgarian language as a mother in the regions traditionally inhabited by them, such as Golo Bardo, Gòra, Prespa, Korca, Kukus, Elbasan, Pogradets and anywhere else in the territory of the Republic of Albania where they currently live; - to carry out the census according to the highest European standards. Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria calls on the current and every next government and all Bulgarian institutions to closely monitor the fulfilment of the terms of this Declaration during the negotiation process with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. On this basis and under these conditions, the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria supports the beginning of the accession negotiations of the European Union with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. In this regard, the National Assembly supports the Council of Ministers adopted on 9 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Shopov. Excuse me, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Speaking of which, history, history! Macedonia was history, as one president said, it was the most romantic part of Bulgarian history, and now we are talking about a commission of Bulgarian historians and Macedonian historians, where they argue point by point Samuel what kind of king he was. Well, it's clear what a king he is. He's a Bulgarian king! Was Gotse Delchev a Bulgarian? Was he a Macedonian? This declaration suffers again from this defect. Dear colleagues, brothers Bulgarians! For us, for me, Macedonia is not part of history. She's...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u5	What is the procedure, dear Mr. Shopov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u6	...and present. That's why this declaration... Dear Mr. Chairman, in this declaration, if it is not inserted, it is not inserted unless the most important statement is mentioned, this declaration will be another betrayal to the Bulgarian cause. And what I need, and my procedure, is to find its place... The declaration is not given out to us, otherwise, if it were in front of me, I would exactly name, say, but here is the systematic place, the importers will help us find the right place, to say that in relations with Macedonia, the Macedonian country must accept the rule to be recognised, to be named as an obligation of the Macedonian country, and we, the Bulgarians, to see that it is about one nation in two countries! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I demand that you enter into this declaration this situation!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u8	Let the Declaration be given to me. In the meantime, I will wish that this be voted on in plenary!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u9	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u10	If we do not accept this, this will be another betrayal against Bulgaria and the Bulgarian national interest...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u11	Thank you. Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u12	...against the Bulgarian doctrine! [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Shopov, thank you. You're way out of time. Furthermore, I have not heard a specific procedural proposal as laid down in the Rules of Procedure. You should have made a procedural proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u13	I did it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u14	No, it wasn't a wish on your part to do anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u15	The declaration wasn't given out to us!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u16	Here you are, dear Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the Declaration concerning the enlargement of the European Union and the Stabilisation and Association Process of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. Something more than that. In all of the documents of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, programmes, declarations, we have always focused on the enlargement of the European Union and the accession of the countries of the Western Balkans. For us, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is a matter of paramount importance for peace, stability and security in our region. All this time, the DPS has supported the enlargement process, the association process of the Western Balkan countries towards NATO and the European Union. Moreover, we have led a pro-active policy in this direction in all our programming documents the process of enlargement of the European Union with the countries of the Western Balkans has taken a very important place. I would just like to remind you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the first to formulate as the main goal of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union the topic of the accession of the Western Balkan countries to the European Union, the topic of launching and expanding this process. We believe that there is no way in the region to have stability, to have peace, to have co-operation and prosperity without the accession of the Western Balkan countries, including the largest, most powerful, military and economic state in the Balkans, the Republic of Turkey. We believe that the negotiations must continue there, too, because we are convinced that without the accession of this largest country, stability in the Balkans will always be under some sort of question. I would thus like to express our firm opinion that we also support the Declaration, of course, and the whole process. Finally, to note that our representatives in the European Union, in the European Parliament, have a very active policy in this regard. For example, Mr. Ilhan Kucuk, Vice President of ALDE (Aliansa of Liberals and Democrats for Europe), is developing a very active activity in this direction in all the institutions where our representatives work. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to vote for the Declaration, supports this process and will continue to participate actively at all levels and in all institutions in which we have representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Zablyanov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u19	Mr. Chairman, I demand that the text of the Declaration be given out which we are considering and which we should accept. I do not allow the possibility of the MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly not knowing what they are voting on. The text was working until yesterday. There were proposals for repairs. I didn't see it spread in any way. And if you believe that the secret acceptance of declarations with a clear procedure in the Bulgarian National Assembly is a European practice, then sign this statement. Please interrupt the meeting for five minutes.. to give out the text to all MPs, so that we are aware of the responsibility we are taking. The forty - fourth meeting in this regard differs from all others. The responsibility to each of us is neither party, nor any other, but individual, civil, to his constituents and within his parliamentary term. So please give out the text and give at least five minutes to the MPs before proceeding to the mechanical vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. You put a question that the people's representative Mr. Shopov asked, which I didn't react to because I didn't want to implicate Mr. Shopov in some things. But since you have said it a lot of stubbornness, the declarations have been sent to the MPs yesterday. The declaration was published on the site, so it has been known for a long time. Those who wanted to get acquainted with the text are already familiar. That's what I'm ending up with. I can't give a break. A break could be requested on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group Ms. Ninova. But until now...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, I believe that we are all responsible enough to ourselves and to what we are doing. Yes, you claim that the Declaration has been sent out, surely so, you are more informed because you are daily in the documentation of the National Assembly, but not all MPs are constantly on their e-mail. As you know, it's also a pre-election situation at the moment, and colleagues are traveling, and some of them are coming back late. There are certainly at least two objective circumstances that have prevented much of the MPs from getting to know her. The question is not whether the Declaration has been sent out as some kind of unaddressed letter, but whether the MPs who will vote on the text today are familiar with it. Otherwise, the clerical approach you offer us is famous, but in this case it does not work. Therefore, since I have no right to make a vacation proposal and since my parliamentary group has not requested one, I suggest you distribute the text on the move. I suppose there is a technical opportunity in the National Assembly to print copies of the Declaration so that each of our fellow Members who will vote can do so with full consciousness, reading what we will accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Yes, the declarations are already being printed. They will be distributed to the MPs. I myself do not question their desire, intent and opportunity to get acquainted with all the documents on which they are obliged to take part and on which we will vote. Mr. Gajev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u23	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct, because, in your attempt to show respect to the MPs, you have failed to note that, even at the forty-third National Assembly, with its constitution, we have decided that the materials for the plenary chamber should not be printed again in order to save paper and to send everything through electronic mail and electronic communication. This decision also applies to the forty-third National Assembly and the Forty-fourth People's Assembly respectively, the materials and the declaration itself were sent at 2:00 p.m. to all the MPs, published on the website of the National Assembly, on the website. For those who do not know what a site is and, unfortunately, that some people, four years later, still do not know where to find their materials, is not the problem of the Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. That's why I didn't question... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, if you want a third procedure. Mr. Zablyanov, you will take the floor again as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u25	It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u26	I'd still like you to come to the point if you... But I'm asking you, with only procedural questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u27	Mr. Chairman, on this phone my colleague Nadia Klisurska opened the website of the National Assembly where there is no such declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u28	Come on, don't be ridiculous. Sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u29	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u30	Can you make a remark, if necessary, and punish Mr. Tzipov... [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev becomes from his place.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u31	Please, Mr. Gazhev, take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u32	First of all, I don't accept him talking to me, and, second of all, not yelling in the front row! He was Deputy Minister of the Interior, the protocol should have learned that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u34	Can I have a clarification?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u35	In the form of what, Mr. Shopov? If you want a procedure, I can't refuse. But please, if you're going to take the floor by procedure, stick to the rules, otherwise I'm going to be forced under art. 58, interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u36	I'm just gonna stick to keeping the rules. Therefore, Dear Mr. Gajev, to you, to address you and to specify you according to procedure in order to follow the Rules of Procedure of each National Assembly shall draw up its rules and related rules, under the rules, acts. The forty-third people's assembly, if such a decision has been made, is for the forty-third people's assembly. We are working on another Rules for the organization of the work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In the Forty-fourth National Assembly, such a decision has not been made. That's what I'm saying. You're a young MP and you know these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u37	Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. Mr. Kasabov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u38	My procedure, fellow Members... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u39	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u40	...we want a 15-minute break, we really want to get acquainted with this declaration, so that colleagues can eventually take a stand on the declaration.... this is an extremely important act. This is my procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u41	On behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u42	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u43	But, Mr. Kasabov... [[(Comments from GERB:]] Yeah, that's what I'm looking at! You are not entitled to such a request as you must pass an hour in accordance with the Rules of Procedure from the beginning. I couldn't. I couldn't. We continue with the speeches, honourable Members. Is there?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u44	There are no speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u45	There are no speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u46	There is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u47	I can't see! All right, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking procedure the way it is. Mr. President, I will argue why I ask you to do this because you are in your right as President of the National Assembly at all times to give rest. You don't have to wait an hour, as a parliamentary group has to wait. It is up to you and your understanding whether and how the meeting of Parliament is held, to give a break or to continue to work on an emergency point which is once, somewhere on the National Assembly's page, I can tell you, yes, there is the Declaration, there is where it is written. So please give us a break, we're not gonna lose anything, and we've only got one item on the agenda anyway. At your initiative, give it this rest so that people can get acquainted with the Declaration. It's not about something that's not important. It is about the national interest of Bulgaria. It's about something our grandfathers died for. It is about a national ideal that we need to read as a text so that we can see it and fully informed to make our decision. Neither will the state collapse in these 15 minutes, nor will anything terrible happen. So I ask you to enter into your powers, give 15 minutes of rest, let's get acquainted with the text of the Declaration and get on with it, let's not waste our time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Lachezar Ivanov.]] He asked for a procedure. Excuse me, Professor Ivanov. Yeah, he asked for a procedure before you, so he gets it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u50	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. You're breaking the rules, and I'm asking you not to allow it. All these procedures are to be given out the declaration, for rest and so on, have no basis. I'll give you just one more argument. The declaration is signed by representatives of all parliamentary groups except the DPS. Here I want to clarify, we would also sign it, just yesterday physically our representatives were absent from the capital, and that is why I am here now to state the firm support and I have already done so. However, given that a representative of a parliamentary group has signed the declaration, at least two things are suggested. The first of them is that he has met and introduced his parliamentary group because such a document is not signed without knowing the parliamentary group of each of the parliamentary parties represented and without obtaining the consent of the parliamentary group. So I don't see here what these procedural grips are, slowing down when the whole process can go smoothly and debate essentially? It is signed by representatives of absolutely all parliamentary groups, that is, if something is not finished anywhere, please do not carry it here and make fairs in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u51	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have a procedural proposal that I would ask you to put to the vote. I propose that, until the document is distributed to the MPs, we move to the second point and keep the good tone with which we started the Declaration. [[Reply: "It has been distributed. "]] Oh, is it dealt? In that case, Mr. Chairman, I withdraw this proposal because I have not seen that it is already being given out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u53	Thank you. Yes, it's giving away right now, Mr. Ivanov. The declaration is given out. We continue with speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u54	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u55	You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u56	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! I also insist on a 15-minute break, and I do not see why this stubbornness is necessary, which has already led to a clear confrontation, and we are trying to create the impression that we will be united in relation to a very important document for Bulgaria. The time we've wasted so far in a fight has been more than 15 minutes. I think the National Assembly will lose nothing if it interrupts work, there is an additional internal discussion if necessary. We have some proposals that we would like to present to you, our coalition partners. Let colleagues from BSP, from other parties who have not met, meet. There's nothing wrong with that. I don't see the point of this stubbornness. It brings nothing to the unity of the National Assembly on the possible development of a unified position. Because if we don't do this, we will lose many times 15 minutes in the discussion process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. To break speculation, I'll read verbatim. 64, para. 2: Any parliamentary group may request a recess of a meeting for no more than 30 minutes once a meeting. The Chair shall interrupt the meeting as soon as requested and shall determine the duration of the interruption which shall not be less than 15 minutes. A recess may not be requested earlier than one hour after the start of the meeting and later than one hour before the end of the working time. The interval between two interruptions shall not be less than one hour. That's what I'm graduating with. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Grozdanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I did not want to go into the chronology of the proposals for this declaration and in the whole process of its work, because I thought that yesterday we had agreed, agreed, reached a common position, after the Council of Ministers adopted one of its best framework positions so far on a foreign policy issue. I guess we couldn't stand the pressure of being watched on TV after all, and that's why we got to this fight. It is worth noting that the process of working on this document began last week, on Monday, when we gathered representatives of all parliamentary groups with the person working from the Bulgarian side in the multidisciplinary committee.. Prof. Dimitrov. We discussed all the possibilities very thoroughly, we sat down, we agreed, and we fulfilled what we agreed. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented to you its draft framework position last Friday, which was distributed by official letters from the President of the National Assembly to all presidents of parliamentary groups. Then on Monday around 3 p.m. it was distributed by me on all posters The draft declaration we are currently looking at. We wanted this declaration to be adopted yesterday morning, before the Council of Ministers, because it is the logic of parliamentaryism that Parliament should be the first to support the government in its position. We could not agree in time because the political groups wanted to make proposals. Yesterday morning, we met at the Chairman's Council and decided that proposals would be made, will be discussed within the chairmanship of groups, their representatives and representatives of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The proposals came, these proposals improved the text that was originally presented. I would like to thank the group of the BSP for the proposals you made to the United Patriarchs and the IMRO in particular because no proposals came from the other factions. Yesterday morning at the Conference of Presidents NFSB was present, but it turned out that they had not read the Framework Position. Okay, they had time to read it, they had time to read the draft declaration. Yesterday all this was supported so that today we can finally come up with a clear, firm position on a topic with which many of us are engaged, on which many of us have worked for many years. Some people are too obsessed with this topic, others are not, but the topic is important for Bulgaria and not only for Bulgaria, but also for our position in an international aspect as a whole. It is unpleasant for me that the international European documents are still quoted mainly in the 2003 Thessaloniki Summit. A lot of perseverance and work must be done in order for the summit in Sofia in 2018 to enter, so to speak, in history, so that we can prove our role in this process. Everywhere the Spanish Agreement is quoted as a standard in politics. I also want the Bulgarian role in this whole process to be quoted as a standard in politics and a standard of quality. I want to get back to the Framework Position. Such a position has not yet been adopted by the Council on European Affairs and then by the Council of Ministers. The framework position is very well argued, very well structured and is written with self-esteem. A self-confidence that should give us confidence about our future foreign policy work, because it turns out that at some points we improvise on these issues. When these improvisations are intelligently made, they work, but when they are not, they lead to problems, and in developed democracies improvisations are not typical of this sphere. The self-esteem seen in this framework position should still tell us that we also demonstrate national dignity, which, my fellow patriots, I believe is your objective. So if we go in different positions now, making new proposals on the text, we won't even have... Every word in such a document is important! I urge you not to improvise, as I have spoken so far, but to stick to what we have been working on for a long time. I'd like to thank, first of all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for keeping your word. Let us not think that this framework position is made from Friday to next Friday. This framework item has been working for more than a few months. I would also like to thank Minister Zaharieva personally, both the Directorates who have actually developed this position. There are many people who also participated in the drafting of this text. Let us, on 17 October, when the European Council is to be held and when we have already found out whether there will be a launch of these negotiations, have the feeling that we have given what we have been able to do at this stage. Why is this declaration accepted now? Because on October 17th, there will be a council that will be preceded by the General Affairs Council. It won't be an easy decision. It is possible for the two countries to continue in a package, it is possible to separate. The chances for the Republic of Northern Macedonia are greater, but since everything will be decided unanimously, that is, if a country is against starting negotiations, there will be no solution. I think for us, the better option is for both countries to start negotiations together, in a package. This is set out in our declaration, but the Framework Position also states that it is necessary for the representatives of these councils to have the flexibility to decide at the moment whether to support a package launch or to start separately from one of the two countries or with conditions to be set. I think that for the region and for everything we have done so far, it is important that today we speak more balanced and more moderately and support the text that we have all proposed. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u60	Colleague Grozdanova said how many great specialists, how many services, how many ministries and so on worked on the Declaration. I will draw attention to you on the second page, where we call on the official representatives of the Republic of Macedonia to apply this and that, the fourth point:... to rehabilitate the victims and repressed by the Yugoslav communist regime because of their Bulgarian self-consciousness. Colleagues of IMRO, where are the victims of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia between the two world wars that are more than those of the regime?! A book was written by a French journalist, you translated it and distributed it. A bunch of papers. The victims are tens of thousands! Whole families have been killed! Aren't we going to rehabilitate them by being such great colleagues from the Institute of History and knowing everything?! Shame on them! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Is there another line? You have the floor, Mr. Shopov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u62	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, this is different with the Declaration in hand. I will now present my proposal to you as fit, then to be put to the vote and to be discussed. I'm hoping, especially IMRO will give an opinion... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u63	Dear Mr. Shopov, in speech you can make an offer. You can't make a proposal in a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u64	It can be done. Why? The procedure is to do...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u65	Because under the rules of procedure, it's clear... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u66	That's not a line. It's procedural...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u67	If you want to make a statement, I could give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u68	All right, let's get this over with. This proposal is in the last paragraph, the page ends: whereas the support of the National Assembly, before then, is inserted the following paragraph and the following paragraph as That's my offer. Everything else for me is a retreat from the Bulgarian national ideal, which is formulated by the Bulgarian revivalists and which is to formulate it to you if the young do not know: all Bulgarians in one country. What we are doing here with several acts, a series of several traitorous acts, is a great betrayal of this Bulgarian national interest, and we forget that the Bulgarian people inhabit both the territory and the lands and what the Republic of Macedonia currently represents. Everything else is equilibristika, everything else is but prom, everything else is to pass this declaration under the dictation of foreign masters who have their own interest in the Balkans, and it is to bring the Republic of Macedonia into an orbit Us Bulgarians are interested in being faithful to the covenants of our ancestors, ancestors who fought, who died for this land. It's our duty. Anything else, come on, whatever it is, can go according to the views of the current ruling Bulgaria. However, once again, do we not say that Bulgarians live in the Republic of Northern Macedonia? This is what is important! And don't quote the Greek Agreement with Macedonia here, and don't give it to me as an example. Greece has received from this absolved debt, digital and speech, 180 billion dollars, with much less reason than those we have with regard to these lands. The next day, Prime Minister Tsipras, as promised, solved these problems after the Agreement put on a tie. Do you remember? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This was his symbol for what the Hellenic Republic received for a much less reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u69	Finish your thought, dear Mr. Shopov, time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u70	What about us? Nothing! The Commission of the Bulgarian historians and Bulgarian historians.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u72	Another act of treachery! I will not vote for this agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u73	Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. You have the floor. Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u74	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! At the beginning of the speech, I will disagree with another statement by Mrs. Grozdanova that Parliament should almost be a mechanical seal of previously agreed texts. The purpose of Parliament is to discuss all decisions that will be taken, freely, transparently and to express the opinion of even some people who disagree with this document. In this case, we support this document as a very serious, decisive, courageous step, unlike all the previous documents related to the relations between the two countries. With regard to the specific text of the declaration, we believe that there are two misses. I do not speak on behalf of a group, I do not want to offend my colleagues from IMRO. I speak on behalf of NFSB. These two passes are essential. The first is that in the final text after the first and second points it is said: "The 4th and fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria calls on the current and every next government and all Bulgarian institutions to closely monitor the fulfilment of the terms of this declaration during the negotiation process with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. I think that the government is not a partner of parliament, but is obliged to carry out its decisions, so here the word "invoking" should be "indebted." Parliament is the highest authority in a parliamentary republic. The second remark, perhaps a miss, as Mrs. Grozdanova would say, improvise on the declaration, because it determines that these are improvisations. There shouldn't be any more improvisations. But where's the text? I didn't see the lyrics! Neither in the government's Framework Position, nor in the declaration have I seen a text which obliges the Macedonian state to assist in the reconstruction of the Bulgarian military cemeteries and monuments. I didn't see any lyrics like that! Don't you think there should be? My grandfather's bones don't know where they are, maybe yours. Two people sacrificed their whole lives, their whole life journey went for it to Bozhidar Dimitrov and Krasimir Uzunov, to restore Bulgarian cemeteries and monuments, where with cooperation, where without the assistance of our country. I think that such a text should necessarily be present if it is to be in the column of "Improbation." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With good reason every time this issue is raised in the Chamber of the National Assembly, there is a different atmosphere and a stronger sound, unlike all the other issues we argue on, excited, fighting verbal battles and so on. The answer to this emotional state of ours is precisely that, even to this day, regardless of the historical coup d'état and the time that passes when these parts, inhabited by Bulgarians, have been cut off from the territory of the state, we continue to feel an emotion towards them. It's perfectly natural and normal. The question is: what to do with emotion in modern political realities? This is the most important question that the predecessor head of state could not answer, which has already been referred to, which used this concept in terms of this part of history. He couldn't answer that question, perhaps because he was connected to music and was more concerned with the emotion in its musical form. The ink of the signatures under the Treaty of Friendship between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia was not dry when Prime Minister Zaev at an official ceremony, speaking of the heroes of Ilinden and the Ilinden Uprising, of course, there was no question of the Ilinden-Preobrazilian Uprising, setting out the participants in this uprising, the revolutionaries, the inspirers, the victims and the peoples who organized it. This happened in the presence of Bulgarian officials, several months after the ratification of the Treaty, and in the artists, ideologists and revolutionaries of the Ilinden-Preobrasian uprising there was not a single Bulgarian according to Mr. Zaev, a month and a half after ratification, two months. Wasn't that enough for the Bulgarian government, the foreign minister, who today, as the media says, opens a consulate of Bulgaria in Barcelona?! Take a look, Members of the House! This is about your minister, colleagues from GERB! I don't know what the foreign minister in your government has to do to get you to ask for his resignation, not us. Where's Mrs. Zaharieva? Where's Mrs. Zaharieva? If the media is to be trusted, in Barcelona. When we are here with you really thinking about a very important question: what to do today so that in the future our relations with the most brotherly state that there can be in the Balkans, enter another stage and exit the 20th century moor of wars, oppositions, tens of thousands of victims and constant political tensions in the Balkans. Today the Bulgarian foreign minister is absent because this topic is not important for the Bulgarian foreign policy. With the same ease the person in question referred to the Friendship Treaty. I'm sorry we felt the same way. Just a few months after the signing of our friendship agreement, our southern neighbours showed how a contract was signed, which was also mentioned by Mrs. Grozdanova as the Spanish process, the Spanish event, the Spanish miracle, only that the signing of this contract was also in an accident historical place. Well, honourable Members, what will the proposed Project of Declaration bring us today? A moral comfort, a cleansing of conscience, a quick forget about the disgraceful treaty, to clarify what was not specified in the treaty, to tell our comrades and friends in Skopje that we have not been fooled by today's declaration?! But all this is known, nothing new will be said. Then what is the point of this declaration? On the occasion of our efforts and the debate that began with the President two weeks ago, the president of our most brotherly state, Stevo Pendarovski, said it was an internal political Bulgarian issue. Maybe there's a reason. And what's the reason for that? Well, the treaty has already been signed. Our declaration is not as gigantic as we are currently imagining. It matters to us and only to the forty-fourth National Assembly, because I am convinced that our followers will have both more courage and more wisdom and more political skills to deal with what we today unfortunately cannot handle. What should be in such a declaration as already proposed to it? First of all, the Achilles' heel, so to speak, our political pain, the distortion of historical events. But in what direction, honourable Members, who perverts them, how twists them, where twists them, what historical events are distorted, for what period, what are they perverted? Can the distortion of historical events come as a requirement in such a declaration? I find it naive, inconsiderate, even funny. What could be requested in such a declaration by our comrades in Skopje? For example, to recognise the Bulgarian character of the national revolutionary liberation movement in Macedonia. The Bulgarian character of the national liberation revolutionary movement in Macedonia! And also to recognize the Bulgarian character of the revolutionary organization that made it happen. The internal Macedonian Adrianople revolutionary organization then. Skopje recognizes that this is Bulgarian according to its aims, according to its composition, a revolutionary organization in its spirit, part of the revolutionary organization of the Bulgarian National Liberation until the Liberation of Bulgaria in 1878. Here is one such requirement, I think it puts things in place because we will not lead the dispute Dame Gruev what he was, Gotse Delchev, his predecessors, Pitu Guli with the strange name Pitu Guli for many Bulgarians. Well, then, honourable Members, what do we want to do with this declaration? I do not believe that, as we have called for at point one of our appeal, the officials of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, we have exhausted the most actual issues that stand before our two countries. On the contrary, the most actual question I seem to have just touched on has not been raised. Next, I would say, a question about language, culture and literature. Whose literature is this? Who created it? Can we pass this lightly? And here, can this question get into the dash of distortion of historical events? It's clear he can't. Clearly, it is about the material expression of the spirit of a nation that we cannot abandon, including going beyond this declaration. How did it come to this day? Because Mrs. Grozdanova rightly made a chronology of the events and I think it should be made one, but I think it should be enriched. It came after the President of the Republic Mr. Radev called with him an unusual format for discussing Bulgaria's position with a view to the upcoming invitation for membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. If the President's initiative had not been taken, I am convinced that today there would be no declaration and there would be no talk of that fundamental document developed at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for five months because everything would have passed and gone. We would not even think of how to deal with the situation in which the government in Skopje and other officials, such as all representatives of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the Commission, created by the Treaty, expressed their already open opinion and attitude to the Bulgarian history, and to what Macedonian history is in their eyes, all those questions that should be found inside this committee. What permission can this committee find after the Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Mr Zaev, said the Ilinden uprising was made by Macedonians in the name of Macedonian freedom. Well, what can a Historical Commission say? Strategic error in our treaty, when the most vital issues of our bilateral relations, these are not historical issues, these are issues of current political everyday life, and that is why we face them today, not because we are obsessed with history, I like that word, we are not obsessed! History is in us, in our daily lives, dictates our future, determines our behavior, relations with our neighbors. She's also a future. With a light hand, the Prime Minister said to leave history to historians, but that's what we did, and from the Macedonian side, history was taken by politicians. And now we find ourselves in a comic situation, our historians to solve political issues together with Macedonian politicians, as we voluntarily gave up this work, our arguments in this dispute and the responsibility of Foreign Minister Zaharieva is enormous. Today this declaration was to be preceded by her resignation, because this declaration is a recognition of the entire gigantic failure of the so-called Friendship Treaty. A gigantic failure that occurred before the eyes of Bulgaria in the last year and a half, and all in a terrifying public silence and parliamentary silence. Because everyone was commenting, even the Minister of War, who also, I don't know why he's not here today? He, among other things, is also the chairman of the party we are talking about. [[Noise and lines.]] I think he should be here. Come on, we shouldn't be getting too bitchy. IMRO chairman should be here... [[Reply: "And where is your chairman? "]] I can't answer that. [[Noise and lines.]] At the very least, to show the colleagues from Skopje that the Bulgarian State and the executive power, and the legislative body are actively excited about the implementation of this treaty, which is, after all, a Friendship Treaty, and that this Friendship Treaty we have not signed with these gaps, because we are chumps, but because we are generous, because we know that it is a matter of some degree for our people that we cannot be cruel like some others to tell them: this you give up, this you give up, this you write down, this sign remove, that climb, and this is unacceptable for us to such a ruse, such an internal one, I would say, scold, for the joy of all the other observers. That is why such a declaration has its place for us as Parliament. It will have no meaning and no consequences for what they will do in Skopje. There, even contracts, as you can see, are hard to get into effect. It is not for a reason that we call for them to adhere to the Treaty. It will be difficult for the Bulgarian state to stand up for these positions in the course of the negotiations, not for another, but because I am convinced that we do not have the right to deny a part of the Bulgarian people the opportunity to enjoy the achievements, the claims of a community such as the European Union and at least to oppose their will to be part of this community. But if today is the day of reflection, I think it has not yet come, it is very soon, if today is the day of reflection on the occasion of the Treaty and on the occasion of all our efforts over the last two years to move this fraternal state in some direction, then we should say that we have not done it in the best way, and political responsibility must be borne, as the conclusions, conclusions, the reckoning is made by people with another calling. But Mrs. Zaharieva, I'm sorry for what time I've already mentioned it, but Mrs. Zaharieva's absence today is fragile, honourable colleagues. I am turning to GERB "think about what to do with this foreign minister, something needs to be done. Indeed, it is difficult for the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, somehow it cannot happen. That's where Stoyan Ganev started, but something has to be done. There can be no continuous blunders, constantly misleading the Prime Minister in one direction or another, for example, the Declaration which was published by the Foreign Ministry on another occasion at the beginning of September. What brought unnecessary tension, a meaningless declaration. What brought someone nothing. This is a deviation in terms of the foreign minister's competence. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Since Mr. Stoinev called me to be shorter, and I can't help but think about it, there is a hierarchy in our party, I would like to draw attention to some moments from this declaration. The last paragraph, someone stopped at it and this is what I intend to conclude: the forty-fourth National Assembly, which is calling upon. Here, I think Mr. Simeonov suggested that he become a member of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, each National Assembly, as Mr Shopov said, is a separate mandate and this is parliamentary democracy. Here I want to make a slight correction of Mr. Simeonov, that is, it extends within his mandate, and if he wants to engage society and future politicians with some of his decisions, he should do it in another way, but not in this way, through this text, he says nothing in this case. Finally, not as a personal matter, but still as something that should be noted: honourable colleagues from GERB, in the draft for a decision of my removal by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, and a third point is written my position on the Treaty with Macedonia. This is one of your main arguments then. The emotion was different in the room, I had no intention of dealing with it. At least at this stage one of your arguments dropped objectively and historically. There are the first two arguments left for my suspension. They'll drop out faster than you'd expect. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u78	I could have asked for a personal explanation because you mention me a lot in this debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Zabljanov, we'll listen to your coat, too, that's okay. Neither the long talk or the high tone can lead to a positive for your party, in my opinion, in this debate. You have enough historical knowledge, but apparently today my word is improvisation the more you know, the more you can improvise. And since you are a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and are now its Vice-President, I have followed your behaviour on this issue and your positions throughout the process. The truth is that you, when you spoke against the Treaty in this House, did not actually vote against the House, but did not vote at all. The treaty is what could have been signed at that time in order to have a positive development for the Republic of Northern Macedonia and for its entry into NATO. Today, I call you to vote against this declaration to show a position. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Second line? I can't see. A hole, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u80	Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, thank you for the line. I believe that my position on the Treaty in the whole process of its discussion has not been a secret to anyone. Secondly, I think my position was consistent. Thirdly, my party has made a huge contribution to the development of Bulgarian-Yugoslav relations since World War II. The Bulgarian-Yugoslav relations! The Bulgarian Socialist Party, as the successor of the Communist Party, has accepted in its documents all positive and negative historical moments. The mistake that IMRO colleagues often like to talk about with regard to Macedonia is unacceptable, reprehensible and historically hopeless. I don't understand why you want to repeat it today? I don't get it. Learn from other people's mistakes if you have to. The question of my position on the Treaty. I have no intention of going back to those discussions and debates. I expected that as a result of today's debate it would become clear that the Treaty was weak, hastily prepared and in no way guaranteed the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria in the course of the political process and the upcoming negotiations for accession to the European Union. He didn't guarantee anything in any way! We all see him today. I say we don't get into any sharp debate that doesn't make any sense. I propose that we support the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Albania as the Declaration calls for. How is this something to be supported, the text of the Declaration, which does not contain specific requirements, I am talking about those that were not included in the Treaty?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It seems to me that the Declaration had to be limited to support for membership and to the general requirements on the Bulgarian character of the revolutionary liberation struggles in Macedonia. I think that's quite enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u82	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the preparation of such documents continues to take place in some very strange formats...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u83	Thank you. You've exceeded your time considerably.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u84	...till some not-quite-clean text comes along.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u85	Finish it. A statement? You have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the Declaration of the National Assembly, not the Declaration of IMRO, the BSP, or any other party. The majority of the political parties represented in today's parliament have given their consent and have edited this declaration in order to have as much support for it as possible to show a unified position as the National Assembly of Bulgaria. We can always find nuances, we can always interpret and criticize. That's not the point. The point is to show that the Bulgarian National Assembly has a unified position that supports brotherly Macedonia, but not unconditionally. That's the point! I do not see how in one declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria we can resolve historical disputes or resolve any other disputes that cannot happen! The foreign ministry and the government of Bulgaria generally define foreign policy. They have developed a Framework Position which, I would say, is at all one of the best positions of the Bulgarian government in the last 30 years concerning the Western Balkans, because we are not only talking about Macedonia, we are also talking about Albania, but this is missing by commenting here with certain things, with certain requirements what should happen. We, as a state, have the mechanisms and our government, both the current and the future, with the mechanisms for Macedonia and Albania to negotiate and open different chapters in the future, to demand what happens there and how to resolve things. If we don't, we won't expect them to. We have a good position to do it. There's talk of how bad the Neighborhood Treaty was. I won't mention names so there won't be a personal explanation. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] For more than 12 years this text of the Treaty of Good Neighborhood stands almost the same. It was attended by all foreign ministers, no matter which political power they were from, including BSP. Including BSP! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The contract has been prepared for 12 years. Perhaps 99% of these texts have been prepared for 12 years. However, this government has finally managed to convince Macedonian authorities to sign this treaty, the previous ones have failed to do so. It's a fact! If in the Treaty of Good Neighborhood we had set thousands of requirements and things, what is the guarantee that tomorrow another government will not come to Macedonia and say that the Treaty will cease once again? This Neighborhood Treaty, Bulgaria and Macedonia can terminate it at any time. Doesn't the Treaty sound better that there is a compromise so that things can be improved in Macedonia? Because I've been listening to idle talk from this tribune about how almost two years hasn't changed. I suggest you ladies and gentlemen who don't often go to Macedonia. For two years the society there and the thinking of the people in most part has a radical change to Bulgaria. Much of the people are already clear, without worrying, saying their origins and no one is harassing them about it. That's a fact, and that's because of this contract. In many cities in Macedonia, young people open cultural centers -- Ivan Mihailov, Todor Alexandrov -- and so on, expressing their Bulgarian character and no one harasses or pursues these people. Are you going to tell me that the treaty had no effect? Well, go see, go see the people in Macedonia to see if it has any effect, or if it does! It's very easy to stand over there at the bank, read books and think you know everything about Macedonia. Moreover, we all forget to mention that with this treaty and this commission, which was created, a lot of questions from medieval history were cleared, where it was clearly and categorically stated by historians or historians, as someone calls them, from both sides of the treaty, both for King Samuel and for other Bulgarian personalities from the Middle Ages, that they are people who are Bulgarians. There is no way that an ideology that has been stuck in Macedonia's heads for 75 years to fight it in one day! The question is how do we, as politicians, make things happen there? I also want to be understood by the people who are watching today's meeting in Macedonia. Our declaration, the government's requirement is not directed at ordinary people. We have nothing against ordinary people who live in Macedonia. We have no claim to them, we have no claim and even to how they feel. Everyone has the right to feel as they want. We have a claim to politicians and authorities in Macedonia because such a debate, which is being held here, we are giving people in Macedonia a reason to spoil their opinion on Bulgaria or on Bulgarian politicians, because we do not divide the two things -- we must divide the politicians in Macedonia and the ordinary citizens of Macedonia. This is very important! This is very important! The other which is about the problems that exist and today we are again debating on them, related to the history between Bulgaria and Macedonia, with the language and so on. I will say again, I have also said it from this tribune: Bulgaria has not yet done so, including your party, which you say is the successor of the BCP, we have not done so, not even Parliament has adopted a declaration. I'm not saying that you should take all the blame. We must ensure that there is a declaration and that the Bulgarian Parliament says that this policy, which was conducted during the totalitarian regime for a certain period, is something that is detrimental to national interest, and something that is foreign, false ideology. We haven't done that yet, and we have a claim to Macedonia. Our country, now for years already since 2013, is mainly not recognised by many of the people in Macedonia who come to Bulgaria, whether for citizenship or to study, or for any other reason, our institutions refuse Bulgarian origin. And we then ask Macedonia to recognise that they are Bulgarians. Well, how do I do that? The Vice President, who is from your party, I am talking about all the institutions, I am not talking about a specific institution and a specific party, the Vice President of your party, the 600 òtase of people who have passed through the Citizenship Council. She's refusing! Two brothers with the same documents on the one signing, the other refusing, for no other reason. Here we are talking about the Ministry of Justice, the Agency for Bulgarians Abroad............................... between 1900 and 1903 they had to present the people proof from Macedonia that they were Bulgarians. What about before the 1900s in Macedonia, there are no Bulgarians, or after 1903? We're talking about a problem that we've created as a country. We, indeed our institutions, boycott the Bulgarian origins of the people of Macedonia, and we want Macedonia to recognise it. How do I do that? It's not just our fault, it's our fault. That's a fact, and we have to admit it, all of us. We have not done enough in our country, in our institutions, to ensure the national interest of the Bulgarians, no matter where they live, whether in Macedonia or Albania. It's the same problem in Albania. Commenting on both this declaration and the government's decision here is not only about Macedonia and Albania. Well, thanks to this majority and thanks to this government after 108 years, Albania recognised a Bulgarian minority. Isn't this a victory for the Bulgarian national interests? Doesn't that stab Macedonianism in the back? What more important argument than to break a false theory when another country, through one country, admitted that Bulgarians live there?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u87	The group is running out of time, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u88	We're extending it. So these things are done. In this declaration there are listed the regions in Albania, which for the first time occurs by the Bulgarian National Assembly, the regions in which Bulgarians live, in which the Bulgarian National Assembly states clearly and categorically to the Albanian authorities in these areas, this one, this one and this one, live, and we want to adopt a legal framework under the Minority Act, which was adopted there so that those Bulgarians in Albania can feel secure their rights, although Albania has really shown a worthy position in this direction, including already there are news in Bulgarian language in national television. Why should we deny progress and these things that have happened? They're a fact. On the occasion of the speech of some of the independent MPs, with all due respect to one and disrespecting the other, I would say the following: when proposed in the text of this declaration on victims and repressed by the Yugoslavian regime after 1944, it comes to the fact that after 1944 there is already a federal republic, part of which are Yugoslavia and Macedonia. Before 1944, there was no such animal in the Royal Yugoslavia. You can't ask the authorities of Macedonia for something they don't have, even purely legal connection or heritage. The other is: after 1941, when today's Republic of Macedonia is part of Bulgaria, all people who have been repressed, put into prisons are released or pardoned. All who have been seized the property of these Bulgarians in Macedonia, the Bulgarian state restores them. What happened before 1941 in the Royal Yugoslavia, the Bulgarian state then did to the people, so when certain facts are spoken, a little should be considered and seen historically how it was. To the other independent MP who also spoke, I think that IMRO should be criticised for whether we are one people with the Republic of Macedonia or with the majority of the people in the Republic of Macedonia, there is no way. Because we are the people who have been saying this for 30 years without worrying about the situation, without hiding and without doing diplomacy now! We don't do it for political reasons, we don't do it for populism, like someone is trying to score points right now, we do it because it's our cause. It was not our cause of IMRO in 1893, when it was created and for that this organization has always fought for the Bulgarianity in Macedonia and Adrianople. And someone here who hasn't read two lines or stepped foot in Macedonia talking to me about Macedonia is just ridiculous and pathetic!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I can't see. Moving on, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A brief editorial proposal regarding what Professor Stanilov said. Let us not limit the number of victims and the repressed only to the communist regime. There are those who were really victims and repressed before that. If the Bulgarian state since 1941 has restored the properties of some of them, it has not restored their lives and name. For this reason, I am offering you a fourth indent of this. 1 to sound like this: to rehabilitate the victims and repressed because of their Bulgarian self-consciousness. Mrs. Grozdanova and I have discussed this. I think that there is no problem with this is neither communist nor anti-communist, we simply extend the period when there were Bulgarians who were destroyed in this territory because they were Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Some of the speeches suggested that almost with this declaration or, if you will, with the friendship agreement, all problems that have been layered over decades and even for a century will be solved. If anyone thinks that with a friendship contract or a declaration we will solve all these problems, they are wrong. This is part of a process, and we need to talk about trends and processes, not about concrete acts and concrete steps that we will take to achieve our objectives and protect our national interest. Over the past 150 years, these processes have undergone reversals, starting from the outline of the Bulgarian cultural space with the recognition of the Bulgarian Exarchy, went through the national ideal of Sanstefan Bulgaria to gather all Bulgarians in one country, going through the division of the Principality of Bulgaria, Eastern Rumelia and Macedonia, during the first national catastrophe due to the Inter-Union War, in which Bulgaria holds an uncompromising position and this causes it to lose the war a much more uncompromising position even than that of Mr. Zablyanov. This integrity then deprives us of the opportunity to get part of this Bulgarian cultural space. It goes through World War I, goes through the attempt to assimilate by the Serbian state of the Bulgarian population in Macedonia, goes through Yugoslav communism and the decision of the Communist international Bulgarian cultural space to be destroyed through the creation of artificial nations here I am not only talking about Macedonian, it passes through the recognition of Macedonia as a country by Bulgaria. In this act has an extremely deep meaning, it aims to outline this space as non-Yugoslav. It was through the freezing of Bulgaria's relations with Macedonia that these relations were, or rather, a process of recovery started precisely by the current government with the signing of the Treaty of Friendship with Macedonia. This contract is a start. If you're looking for a final result when it's signed, you're wrong. You will not see one because the layers are very large and it will probably take decades to achieve even some of what we want. But in order to achieve even some of what we want, we should demonstrate unity and agreement on the direction in which we are going so that it does not happen that, after another year, we will again find ourselves at the starting point of ground zero. Unfortunately, from today's speeches, I see that there is such potential and that would be a mistake. We must look for an opportunity to achieve the possible. I share much of those of Mr. Zablyanov, but I do not think that much of these things can be achieved now and immediately. The suggestion that they can be achieved now and immediately, I think, aims to serve the geopolitical context because there is one. The relations between Bulgaria and Macedonia and the relations between the countries in our space are not in itself. Currently there is a geopolitical window from which we can take advantage and destroy the border between Bulgaria and Macedonia. This will be a very important step for the outline of the Bulgarian cultural space or rather for its recovery in full. Such opportunities are very rare and I regret that colleagues use such important themes for service, I will say it directly to the interests of other countries, which currently do not coincide with the interests of Bulgaria. The Bulgarian national interest in different periods of time coincides with the interests of different geopolitical forces. Finally, I will call on you to love Bulgaria more than your other parents. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines? Personal explanation, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u94	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Bikov, we've been explaining all our and national failures with some geopolitical factors for a long time. You see, relations are here and between us, in this National Assembly we have the power! If anyone thinks he's alive because someone else told him he was living because someone else is dealing with him, it's a way of thinking, and I feel deeply sorry for that way of thinking. The question of geopolitical windows. Please, it's very effective, but through the geopolitical window, the only thing you can do is jump in and break your head, which we'll probably do because we've done it more than once. As many times as we've seen a geopolitical window, we've always ended up on the pavement between the pavement and the curb. Take it as a friend, not as a small thing. There is nothing geopolitical, there is a series of political mistakes of Bulgarian politicians in the current government, supported by their MPs in the National Assembly, so as not to tell you the name!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will make a proposal for an addition to the Declaration. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 to add a new post with the following text: to assist in the search, restoration and conservation of Bulgarian military monuments and cemeteries in the territory of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in the spirit of European values. It's about the Macedonian authorities. The motives were expressed in Mr. Valeri Simeonov's statement, so I will not dwell on them further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u97	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, perhaps in today's discussion more was said than was necessary. Maybe the occasion was made more unnecessary than it really is. I just want to remind you that this declaration is actually related to two things. Firstly, with the support of the Bulgarian Parliament of the decision of the Bulgarian government not to stop, to give the green light for the negotiations on membership in the European Union of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania and to support the conditions for this membership in the negotiation process, which must be implemented and also placed in the Framework Position of the Government. Emotions and romance have always accompanied discussions about Macedonia. This is from the period of our liberation to this day. However, whenever we have succumbed to romance and emotions, we have been mistaken and have come to catastrophes. Perhaps with the wisdom of time we have reached the point when this romance and these emotions we can put them in pragmatic solutions because what lies ahead in the coming years is not a boxing match, but a complex chess party in which it is very important to be well prepared, to play it smart and not to be separated. That is why the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, BSP as a party, is trying and making it possible for it to seek consent on these issues and be responsible. Although we are not uncritical of what has been done so far, we are making this effort to move forward together and rely on hearing from the government. Why is that important? Because the negotiation process will not end with this government in this term, it will not end safely with the next one. This government will start it, will probably continue it and will then some other government, but it is very important to have a national position, to have a strategic approach by Bulgaria to be followed in this process. To critics and some of the proposals that have been made today, I would say that we should read carefully. First of all, the Framework Position, which was proposed and adopted by the government yesterday, because it contains a definite part of the issues that do not necessarily need to be present in our declaration, but we accept them. Both I, and on behalf of our parliamentary group, can welcome the President's initiative to bring us together at this crucial moment, but along with this, we cannot say to the white black, to welcome the fact that the government has complied with the ideas that have been exchanged there and, in fact, this position, its emphasis has been further encouraged by the fact that the President and the main political forces are behind it. This is how it should be in the negotiations ahead, because the active work on clarifying our position and the declaration that we are going to adopt today will continue for months, for years. First of all, it will be led by the government, but it is also our responsibility as political formats and with our partners to explain exactly what the problems are, why Bulgaria puts these topics in the negotiation process and why it is so clear about their implementation, because despite the efforts in recent years, our partners do not yet understand this sensitivity and, again, I stress why this is important for Bulgaria and the Bulgarians. Secondly, with today's decision we are still giving a signal to our partners that we want the Republic of Northern Macedonia, respectively the Republic of Bulgaria, to be part of the European Union. Whether we call it a geopolitical window, but for the first time we have the chance to be together with today's Republic of Northern Macedonia in a union. This has happened, albeit not in such depth, with its membership in NATO, but what we can achieve together in the European Union is a unique opportunity for us as a country, as a people, to achieve at least partially that national ideal, which was born in 1878. But together with telling our partners that we are giving this green light, we want them as part of the European Union, but we will not allow countries that are not benevolent to us to enter the European Union, which, as we say in our declaration, are redeploying our history. We expect wisdom from them because we do not want them to compromise with the truth. We want to confirm the truth, as it is, without questioning the foundations of statehood and state the Republic of Northern Macedonia today. And thirdly, something about the government. We supported the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation. I remember we did, first of all, because politics is an art of opportunity. Yes, he was the result of years of effort. That was the contract, possible at that point. Like I said, he was the beginning. How this treaty is implemented is the responsibility of both the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Bulgarian government and its approach to it. We have stated that we support this treaty, ratify it, but also on one condition that the results of its implementation will be made public and discussed in the National Assembly. At this point, that didn't happen. There was a meeting of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission, which paid particular attention and dealt with the results of what was achieved in June this year. The results were not presented in the Bulgarian Parliament. There was no discussion about it here. I appeal to you, let this not be the case again, because, as you can see, Parliament is behind the government on key issues for Bulgaria in this regard. Do not avoid this position of parliament! We must be empathetic to this process. By the way, I would just like to add that we do not object to including the text on military cemeteries, but, by the way, a special text is present in the conclusions in the minutes of this first meeting of the Joint Intergovernmental Commission, where the two governments, with the ratification of these protocols, have committed themselves to speed up the recovery process and work on the whole range of problems related to the identification and reconstruction of these cemeteries. Secondly, we believe that it is not enough for our relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia to go through their accession process to the European Union. We need a comprehensive, comprehensive strategy for relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, because even after the signing of the treaty and the great opportunities that opened up then.. immediately after its ratification, we did little in terms of culture, media, economic penetration, connectivity, opening of checkpoints and so on. It is true, Mr. Bikov, that you cannot achieve everything quickly and immediately. But we must have the opportunity, the idea, the strategy, the vision for the future and try to work wider and wider. All that I'm saying also requires the necessary funding, financial insurance. If this is a priority, if this is a decade-long, century-old Bulgarian dream of ever closer relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia and connecting the people on both sides of the border, let us try to work out this strategy and finance it. Thirdly, which is back in the context of this, it is true that the Bulgarian Presidency focuses on the Western Balkans, building relations within the region itself, the region with the European Union, but let this not remain in words alone, let us not remain an initiative within the Presidency, but let us try as a state, as a national policy, to continue this with our own initiatives and measures to apply both to the Republic of Northern Macedonia, but as a whole in the region. With this, I would like to stress once again that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is going to support this declaration. We worked constructively on its development. She's not perfect. More questions can be included in it. Once again, I stress that we join it, we are co-owners, we will support it, but we insist that the Bulgarian government engage Parliament to a greater extent, our good intentions here not to be one-way. We do accept the absence of a government representative today, be it a foreign minister, and I think it is of a rank that required the presence of even the prime minister himself in today's discussion, but we accept this as disrespect to Parliament and disrespect to the subject which is so important and which we are discussing today. And I very much ask that in the future this really be a lesson and not be repeated. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Are there lines? I can't see. Do I have to ask for other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We will meet the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. We have two editorial amendments and two suggestions for addition. We will vote them in the order of their entry. First, the editorial corrections............................................................................................... 69, then the proposals for an addition to the text. The first editorial amendment is Mr. Simeonov's and it was presented. [[Heckling]] Yes, Mr. Simeonov made an editorial amendment. It was called upon to be replaced by................................................................................................. She wasn't withdrawn. We are voting on the first proposed editorial amendment by Mr. Simeonov. 140 MPs voted: 60 against 6, 74 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. The second editorial amendment is of the MP Tasco Ermenkov. She's at point four of a point. 1 and was presented. Colleagues, checkpoint four, t. 1 in the version proposed by Mr. Ermenkov is: To rehabilitate the victims and repressed because of their Bulgarian self-consciousness. Please vote. Vote 142 MPs: for 141, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal for an addition made by the MP Pavel Shopov. It's like the last paragraph on the front page. They voted 114 MPs: for 28, against 57, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. And on the second addition of the MP Christian Mitev is as the last point of the first point. They voted 142 MPs: 142, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote your proposed Declaration text with the amendments and additions already adopted. Vote 134 MPs: 129 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move on to a second vote on: The Amending Law and the Complement of the Law on the Markets of Financial Instruments. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was adopted in the first vote on 26 September 2019. Budget and Finance Committee You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u100	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a procedure. Allowance in Mrs. Rositsa Velkova's Chamber of Finance; Deputy Minister of Finance; Mrs. Hristina Penditcheva, State Expert at the Directorate of the Financial Markets; Mrs. Maria Filipova, Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission; Mr. Vasil Golemanski, Executive Director of the Central Depository; Mrs. Miglena Pavlova, Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, and Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Legal Supervision in the same Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u101	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u102	The Law on Markets in Financial Instruments is amended and supplemented by the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u103	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u104	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u105	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u106	Vote 69 MPs: 68, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u107	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova: - Paragraph 3 to go. - Paragraph 3 to go. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u108	Please support the Commission's motion to reject § 3. Vote 67 MPs: 65, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3, as in para. 1 after the word "stakes', the word "stakes' is added, and after the words "stakes', the word "stakes' is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u110	I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 65 MPs: 64, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u111	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 10: (aa) the text prior to point (a) shall be amended as follows: the entities that carry out trading on their own account, including market makers, commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives thereof, except those who conduct trading on their own account when carrying out orders to clients, as well as those who provide investment services other than trading on their own account, commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives thereof, to clients or suppliers within the scope of their core business, provided that: (bb) in the letter "in" the words "al." 7 "9' are replaced by "al'. the following point is inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No (b) point 13 is repealed. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1, t. 10 inform the Commission that they will benefit from the exemption on the basis of para. 1, t. 10 if justified, within 15 April of the calendar year for which exemption is requested. The notification shall be accompanied by a justification for the grounds on which they consider that the activity in question under para. 1, t. 10 is additional to their core business in accordance with the requirements of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/592. 4. In para. the first sentence is replaced by the following: It's a one-month thing. 5. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The Commission for Financial Supervision on a proposal from the Vice-President shall assess whether there is a basis for implementing the person of the exception under para. 1, t. 10, applying the criteria under Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/592 and notifying the person in writing within one month of receipt of the notification under para. 7 and, where the additional information is requested, within one month of receipt, from the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph 7 respectively. 8th sentence, second sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u112	I declare a vote on the Commission proposal for § 5, which becomes § 4. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u113	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u114	I declare a vote on the Commission's proposal for § 6, which becomes § 5. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u115	Under § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Valentin Lambev: In §7 is created t. 3: "3." In para. 4 t. 5 is finally a comma and is added as well as when more than five years have passed since the entry into force of the withdrawal order. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the 1. In the title, the words "good reputation, professional qualification and experience' are replaced by "adjustability'. 2. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 2
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u116	Mr. Lambev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to briefly present to you the philosophy of this proposal for the amendment of this article. Currently there are a large number of investment firms operating in Bulgaria, which are in the grey sector. The only possibility for this sector to expand is to allow the Financial Supervision Commission to license them again so that it can exercise control over their activities. I therefore think that this revision is imperative in terms of covering the large number of investment firms that are not currently regulated are not controlled by the Commission. I think this amendment is in the spirit of the changes we are making right now for stronger regulation and the introduction of rules and control in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u118	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Lambev, I support your proposal. I would like to explain to my fellow Members that yesterday in the Commission we rejected it, but we had another interpretation of the text. Having done an in-depth analysis with experts from the Financial Supervision Commission and the Ministry of Finance, we agreed that your proposal is resonant that it is normal to put one period of five years after the withdrawal of the licence of the persons who have participated in the management of this intermediary to be able to participate again in the management and to license a new intermediary. So I call on this House to support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I assume, Mr. Lambev, you don't have an ass. Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Valentin Lambev in § 7 to create a t. 3. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal in its version of § 7, which becomes § 6, with Mr Lambev's already adopted proposal. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u121	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u122	I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to be adopted § 8, which becomes § 7. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u123	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following 1. In para. 5 all over the words "15 days" shall be replaced by "one month." 2. In para. 6 the words "European Banking Authority (EBA) " shall be replaced by "EMO'. 3. The creation of para. 8. The Financial Supervision Commission on a proposal from the Vice-President shall carry out an initial assessment in the proceedings under para. 1 of the suitability of the members of the management and control body of the investment firm, individually and collectively, and carry out a follow-up assessment of the suitability under conditions and in order specified by an ordinance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u124	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 9, which shall become § 8. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u125	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 10, 11 and 12, which shall become paragraphs 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u126	I shall put to the vote the proposal for paragraphs 10, 11 and 12, which shall become paragraphs 9, 10 and 11. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u127	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 12, as in para. 2 the words "juridical person' shall be replaced by "commercial company'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 which become paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u128	I put to the vote the proposal announced by Mrs. Stoyanova for paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u129	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 20, and the words the European Banking Authority. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22, which shall become § 21, which shall, in that regard, be read in conjunction with the text of the importer. The title shall be replaced by the words "the title" and "the title" shall be replaced by the words "the title" and "the title" shall be replaced by the words "the title" and "the title" shall be replaced by the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 22, and the words shall be created art. Art. 60a: The title is replaced by the title "In Chapter Five," art. is created. 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m., 60 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u130	I vote on the Commission proposal for paragraphs 21, 22 and 23. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u131	Under § 24, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: With the permission of the committee on a proposal from the Vice-President, an investment firm which is designated as significant under para. 1 may unite the risk committee with the audit committee referred to in Article 1. 107 of the Independent Financial Audit Act if the establishment of a separate risk committee does not correspond to the nature, scale and complexity of its activities and the type and scope of its investment services and activities. 2. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The members of the United Committee under para. 3 must have the knowledge, skills and experience necessary to fully understand and monitor the implementation of the strategy and the tendency to take risks from the investment firm, as well as those to carry out internal audit functions. (5) The order for issuing the authorisation under para. 3 shall be determined by a decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u132	I shall put to the vote § 24 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 23. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u133	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 25 to 37 including those becoming paragraphs 24 to 36 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u134	I vote on the Commission proposal for paragraphs 25 to 37, which become paragraphs 24 to 36 respectively. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u135	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 146 t. 1 is amended as "1." on the right of ownership or other rights to financial instruments within the meaning of art. 4 (1) (b) 50 point (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the existence or transfer of which rights presupposes their registration in a register, in an account or in a depositary institution located or being held in a Member State, the legislation of the Member State where the relevant register, account or depository institution is located or held;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u136	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer by the version of the Commission under § 38, which shall become § 37. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u137	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149 the words "centralised" and "other" are being used. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 39. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 41 and proposes the following version of § 41, which becomes § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 158 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 after the words "supplied" the words "supplied" shall be added and the words "supplied" shall be added. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 15, para. 1 and para. 3 " 7 ". 2. In para. 5 words. 1 and 2' are replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1.?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u138	I shall put the Commission's proposal under paragraphs 39, 40 and 41 to the vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u139	The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 42 to 48 by importer, which shall become respectively paragraphs 41 to 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u140	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal under paragraphs 42 to 48, which shall become respectively paragraphs 41 to 47. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 48, by: "1." The words "after" shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 227 Title 5 shall be created with chapters twenty-first and twenty-first shall be established by art. 227a "227p": "227p" is replaced by "In Part Two, Title 5 is created with chapters twenty-one and twenty-first" is created with art. 227 a.m., 227 p.m., d.o.b. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227d, para. 3 the words "suppl. 2' are replaced by "al'. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227d, para. 6 is finally added to the Bulgarian National Bank. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227n, para. 1 words "Delegated Regulation No 2017/392 of 11.11.2016 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards on the licensing, supervision and operational requirements for central securities depositories (OB, L 65/145 of 10.03.2017)) The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227p, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 227l, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u142	I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission to § 49, which shall become § 48. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u143	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for the creation of a new § 50. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 232 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: Additional requirements for the persons referred to in para. 1 shall be determined by a decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u144	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 49. Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. I suggest we end this now, Mrs. Stoyanova. One message: an exhibition from the birth of Dimitar Dimov will be opened in the Northern lobby. It reveals little familiar details of the personal and creative path of the writer, who was also a MP. In the year in which we celebrate 140 years of the Constitutional Assembly and the signing of the Tarnovo Constitution, let us remember that in the Bulgarian Parliament there were also people of the spirit who worked, poets, journalists and artists. All MPs are invited to the opening of the exhibition. I'm calling a break until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u145	Colleagues, take your seats. Let's get back to work. Please continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50 and shall replace the word of the importer with the title. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 52, 53 and 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u147	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 50 with the proposed editorial amendment and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 51, 52, 53 and 54. Please cancel the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I shall put the proposed texts to the vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, i.e. 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (c) c. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 12, 13 and 13 shall be replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, as in para. 6 The words and sole traders shall be deleted, and in para. 8 the words of the natural person shall be replaced by the natural person shall be punished with the natural person. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 57 and 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u149	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 55 with the amendments proposed by the Commission, the text of the importer for § 56 with the amendments proposed by the Commission and the text of the importer for paragraphs 57 and 58. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, in the text prior to that. 1 after the word "the following' the words "the following' are added and the words "the following' are added, and the words "the following are "the following' are replaced by the words "the following ones'. 1 the words "the above' are replaced by "the above'. 1.. 4............................................................................ "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 60, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60: ........................................................ In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the activities of the Central Depository and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories, as well as amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No (b) A new item shall be created. 4. "4." the activities of the Investor Compensation Fund; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The securities are transferable rights registered on accounts in the central securities register, respectively, where applicable, both in the central securities depositary and in the government securities and in the securities issued by the Bulgarian National Bank, registered on accounts in the Bulgarian National Bank or in the sub-depository of government securities or in foreign institutions carrying out such activities (personal securities) or documents materialising transferable rights (personal securities) that can be traded on the capital market, with the exception of payment instruments, such as: 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100a, para. The third sentence of the sentence of Article 8 shall be replaced by the Central Securities Register. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100g para. 4 is amended as follows: The Central Depository shall provide the information from the central repository of securities contained in the ledger's ledger at the request of the trustee representing them to the issuer in the cases under art. 100d, para. 5. The issuer may obtain the information contained in the bonding book and through the central security depository where the securities are registered. 5. In Section IV of Chapter 7, with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The Company is obliged to send to the Commission, to the regulated market, to the central depository of securities where the shares of the company are registered, the protocol with the decision to increase capital by the end of the working day following the day of holding of the general meeting, or the day of holding of the meeting of the management body. 127, para. 2 of the Central Depository "AD" in connection with its central securities register. (b) in para. The second sentence is amended as follows: Within three working days of the expiry of the 14-day period, respectively, of the 7-day term referred to in the sentence first, the central depository of securities where the securities are registered shall open accounts for the rights of persons per sentence first on the basis of the data from the book of shareholders. 127, para. 2 of the central securities register. (c) in para. 8 the words the Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository of Securities in which the securities are registered; (d) paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The public company shall organise the subscription in such a way as to allow for remote recording of shares through the central securities depository in which the securities are registered. (e) paragraph 10 is amended as follows: At the beginning of each working day during the signature, the central securities depositary in which the securities are registered shall publicly disclose information on the rights exercised by the end of the previous working day and inform the central securities repository. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) in para. 2 words The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Securities Register and a sentence second shall be created: The information referred to in the first sentence may be provided at the request of the company and through the Central Securities Depository in which the securities are registered and which offers the services under point (c). Point 2 (a) (b) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) in para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository of Securities in which the securities are registered and a comma shall be placed; (c) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The dividend payment shall be made with the assistance of the central securities depositary in which the securities are registered and offering the services under point 8. 2 point (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116d, para. 3, p. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository of Securities in which the securities are registered. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122, para. 3, p. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and shall be replaced by the Central Depository in relation to its central securities register and finally a comma point shall be placed and a sentence shall be created second: the Central Depository shall provide the information by sentence first to the Central Securities Depository in which the securities are registered. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 2, p. 7 words to the Central Depository under art. 262h, para. 5 of the Commercial Law.................................................................................................. 262h, para. 5 from the Commercial Act to the Central Depository. 12. The name of Chapter 9 shall be amended as follows: the Central Securities Register. "Central Depository" JSC. 13. Article 127 is amended as follows: Art. 127. (1) The issue and disposal of non-personal securities issued by companies having its registered office in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as issuers whose securities have been issued under the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, shall have effect from their registration in the Central Securities Register. (2) When the securities under para. 1 after they are issued they are registered with the Central Depository of Securities other than the Central Depository and the Central Depository of Securities shall ensure the provision of the Central Depository of the Central Depository in relation to the Central Securities Register of the necessary information to record them by the end of the closing day of the settlement of the securities transaction or the corresponding entry into the accounts of the Central Depository of Securities. 14. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 127a: Art. 127a. (1) The Central Depository is a joint stock company with a single-level management system which manages a securities settlement system referred to in point 3 of Section A of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 and provides at least another of the main services referred to in Section A of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 909/2014. (2) The Central Depository shall carry out the activities under para. 1 after obtaining a licence from the Financial Supervision Commission under the terms and conditions of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014. (3) The Central Depository shall keep the central repository of securities. (4) The activities of the Central Depository shall be subject to the requirements of the Central Depository of Securities under Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, the Financial Instruments Markets Act and this Act as well as the implementing acts. (5) The Central Depository shall not engage in commercial transactions unless it is necessary to carry out the activities under para. 1 and 3. (6) The Central Depository shall not: 1. give loans or provide claims to third parties; 2. issue bonds; 3. receives loans under conditions less favourable than the market for the country. (7) "Central Depository" JSC shall form a fund "Reserven" under art. 246 of the Commercial Law and establishes and maintains a guarantee fund and a mechanism to ensure settlement of financial instruments under art. 132. (8) The Central Depository shall have qualified personnel, material, technical and software, necessary for effective and secure implementation of the activities under para. 1. (9) An arbitration court shall be established at the Central Depository. The General Assembly of the Central Depository shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Arbitration Court and shall elect its Chair and Vice-President. (10) The Central Depository shall not be terminated by decision of the General Assembly. No insolvency proceedings have been opened for the Central Depository. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 all over the word "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and the words "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" shall be replaced by 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 and 3 all over the word "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced (b) in para. 4. (aa) in the text before t. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and shall be replaced by the Central Depository. (bb) c. 1 words for the device and operation of the Central Depository containing the operational rules of the settlement finality system of which the Central Depository is a system operator shall be replaced by the Central Depository. (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." adopt rules for the central repository of securities; (dd) point 3 is repealed; d) c) c) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) d) 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: the Rules of the Central Depository "AD" shall contain at least: (bb) point 1 is repealed; (c) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 127, para. the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: (dd) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the operational rules of the settlement finality system of which the Central Depository is a system operator; (e) points 4 and 5 are repealed; (fe) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. the order and manner of the creation and operation of a guarantee fund for damages incurred in carrying out the operation of the Central Depository. (gg) create a t. 7. "7." the order and manner of establishing and operating a mechanism to ensure the settlement of financial instruments. (b) A new para shall be created. 2: The rules of the central securities register shall govern the registration, keeping, keeping and accessing the register and shall form an integral part of the Rules of Procedure under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words of the Central Depository shall be replaced by the words of the Central Depository shall be replaced by the words referred to in para. 1, respectively, in the rules of para. 2 and then a comma is placed after them. 18. Article 131 is amended as follows: Art. 131. (1) Each investor shall be entitled to access the central securities register only on the information relating to the financial instruments it owns, as well as information relating to transactions in financial instruments to which it is a party. (2) Access under para. 1 shall be carried out directly by electronic means or by: 1. investment firms; 2. banks - investment firms; 3. management companies; 4. central depositories of securities and clearing institutions. (3) Information on central securities depositories of securities shall be recorded in the central securities register. (4) The Central Depository is charging fees for the services it provides in connection with the keeping of the central repository of securities. The fees referred to in the first sentence shall be non-discriminatory and proportionate to the costs actually incurred for the provision of services and shall be made public on the website of the Central Depository. 19. Article 132 is amended as follows: Art. 132. (1) The Central Depository shall establish a guarantee fund for damages incurred in the performance of its operations and a mechanism to ensure the settlement of financial instruments, which shall include a fund to ensure the settlement of financial instruments. (2) The persons referred to in art. 131, para. 2 are obliged to contribute an introductory and annual cash contribution to the guarantee fund for compensation of damages incurred in the performance of the operation of the Central Depository, at the amount set out in the rules of art. 130, para. 1. Other sources of fundraising are deductions from the revenue from the company's activities in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the Rules of the Central Depository (CSC), loans, donations, foreign assistance and others. (3) The participants in the set system of the Central Depository shall be obliged to contribute an introductory and monthly cash contribution to the fund to ensure the settlement of financial instruments of an amount specified in the rules of art. 130, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 and 3 all over the word "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced (c) in para. 5. (aa) in the text before t. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and after the words the Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository. (bb) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." with the consent of the holders of financial instruments and of the persons referred to in art. 131, para. Those measures should be implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Central Depository shall maintain an unlimited archive of all data from the Central Securities Register, including for incorrect and corrected entries. The archive referred to in the first sentence shall include the electronic database of the central repository of securities and the documents on the basis of which the relevant statements were made. (b) in para. 2 the words "the Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "the Central Depository" shall be replaced by "the Central Depository" and "the Central Depository" shall be replaced by "the Central Depository" (c) in para. 3 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 22. Article 135 is amended as follows: Art. 135. The persons referred to in art. 127, para. 1 with an issue of non-available financial instruments shall be required to register and deregistered the non-personal financial instruments in the central securities register in accordance with the order laid down in the ordinance under art. 140..................................................................... 23. Article 136 is amended as follows: Art. 136. (1) The Central Depository "AD" shall enter in the central register of securities the names of the holders of non-available financial instruments under art. 127, as well as the names of the foreign persons under art. 133 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, which hold in their own name on a common account non-available financial instruments of other persons. (2) The Central Depository shall keep the books of the holders of non-available securities under art. 127, the order of conduct shall be determined by the rules laid down in art. 129, para. 4 t. 2. (3) The entered non-available financial instruments in the central repository of securities shall be considered as financial instruments of their holders against the creditors of the Central Depository. 131, para. 2 and all other third parties. 24. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 136a: Art. 136a. The distribution of interest, dividends, the making of notifications and other actions to administer financial instruments as well as the respective responsibilities of public companies and other issuers, the central repository of securities, central depositories of securities and the persons under art. 131, para. 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 140..................................................................... 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 sentence second words the register of the Central Depository a foreign person under art. Paragraph 136. 1s are replaced by the Central Securities Register, a person holding, on his own behalf, on a common account, non-available financial instruments of other persons and after them, a comma; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The Act for the Registration of Financial Instruments shall be issued to the persons referred to in Article 2. 127, para. 1 or of the persons referred to in art. 131, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 for which the entry under art. 1 and 2 has been made or through which the entry under art. 127, para. 1. "Central Depository" JSC cannot refuse its customers the service by the first sentence. (c) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: A person holding, on his behalf, on a general account, non-available financial instruments to other persons may issue depositary receipts to his clients for the financial instruments acquired on their behalf after the order is limited in the central securities register with those financial instruments in the country. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the words "Securities' shall be added to the statement "Securities'; (b) in para. The first sentence is amended as follows: The transactions with financial instruments concluded and accepted for registration shall be registered by the Central Depository and in the Central Securities Register according to the rules of art. 129, para. 4 t. 2, irrespective of disputes and claims made. (c) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The order to correct the wrong entries in the central securities register shall be laid down in the rules of art. 129, para. 4 t. 2. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and shall be replaced by the Central Depository in the maintenance and maintenance of the Central Securities Register. (b) in para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central (c) paragraph 3 is repealed; (d) in para. 4 the words "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central Depository" shall be replaced by "Central Depository" and "Central (e) paragraph 5 is repealed. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 141, para. 2 the words "instructions in the Central Depository" shall be replaced by "instructions" and entered in the Central Securities Register. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, para. 3 sentence first, the words "the Central Depository" shall be replaced by "the Central Securities Register." 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148c, para. 1, t. 1 and 4 words The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and the Central Depository, the Central Depository of Securities in which the company's securities are registered. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 149, para. 12th sentence first, the words "the Central Depository" shall be replaced by "the Central Depository of Securities." 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155 para. 3 is amended as The Commission shall immediately notify the withdrawal of the auction proposal of the regulated market, the investment firm or the central depository of securities in which the trust documents for the shares have been deposited. Within 3 days of receipt of the notification, the investment firm or central depository of securities depositing the trust documents for the shares shall provide conditions for the return of the certification documents to the accepted shareholders. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the words supplier or in the Central Depository shall be replaced by a supplier or central depositor of securities in which they are registered; (b) in para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Securities Register. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words the Vice-President shall be added to the internal acts approved by the Commission of the Central Depository. 35. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 221, para. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. 127, para. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 127a, para. 5 and 36. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "size 30 000 BGN" shall be replaced by.4 000 000 BGN; (b) in para. 2 the words "sixty thousand BGN" shall be replaced by 20 000 000 37. In the additional provisions: (a) Paragraph 1 shall set up t. 50 and 51: 50. The Central Depository of Securities is a central Depository within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 2 of the additional provisions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 51. "Participant" is a participant within the meaning of § 1, point. 82 of the additional provisions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. (b) in § 1d: (aa) The current text becomes para. 1; (bb) The creation of para. 2: The Act provides for measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the European Union and central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u151	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 59 with the amendments proposed by the Commission, the text of the importer on the name of the division and the version proposed by the Commission for § 60. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u152	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 61 "65."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u153	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 61 "65" inclusive. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u154	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Special Bets (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 18 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository of Securities led by the Central Depository and, where applicable, by the Central Depository of Securities in which the securities are registered. 2. In para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Securities Register, led by the Central Depository and the Central Depository, respectively, by the Central Depository of Securities in which the securities are registered and a comma shall be placed. According to § 67, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 67: ................. In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 are created t. 3... "3." the powers to issue, refuse to issue and withdraw a licence to carry out banking activities of central securities depositories and their designated persons for the provision of banking-type ancillary services under art. 54 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 (OB, L 257/1 of 28 August 2014)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 4. supervision according to art. 60 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the business of providing banking-type ancillary services and implementing the prudential requirements under art. 59 of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 by central securities depositories under art. 54 (2) (a) and (b) of the designated banking-type ancillary services under art. point (b) of Article 54 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014; 5. the powers under art. Art. 39, par. 3, art. 42 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) 648/2012 (OB, L 173/84 of 12 June 2014)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 600/2014', as regards structured deposits. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29a, para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and shall be replaced by the Central Depository. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Depository and a comma shall be placed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 12 finally added to Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 and to Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 and to Regulation (EU) No 600/2014. (b) paragraph 13 is amended as follows: The Bulgarian National Bank may apply measures under para. 2 and in the following cases: 1. where the bank is likely to violate the provisions of this law, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 and their implementing acts within the next 12 months; 2. where, on the basis of the review and the assessment carried out in accordance with art. 79c considered that the rules, strategies, procedures and mechanisms put in place by a bank, how they are implemented, its own capital or its liquid assets do not ensure sound risk management and coverage. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145, p. Art. 1 and Art. 1 148 all over the word "centralized" is deleted. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: If the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State of the issuing Member State does not comply with this Regulation, the competent authority of the Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State shall inform the other Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State or of the issuing Member State of the issuing Member State of the authorisation. (b) the creation of para. 5? 7: In case of a request from the ECB on the basis of art. 121d for imposing a penalty for breach of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 or other directly applicable acts of the European Union by a credit institution, financial holding company or mixed financial holding company of the violator, a penalty of up to the double amount of the realised profit or loss resulting from the infringement shall be imposed. Where the amount of profit or loss realised cannot be determined, in the cases referred to in the first sentence, a penalty of up to 10 per cent of the total annual turnover shall be imposed in accordance with the annual financial report for the preceding financial year. (6) Upon a request from the ECB on the basis of art. 121d for imposing a financial penalty for infringement or non-compliance by a credit institution, financial holding company or mixed financial holding company of an administrative act issued on the basis of art. 121b, para. 1 or 2, the violator shall be subject to a penalty in the amount referred to in paragraph 2. 5 or a periodic penalty payment of up to 5 per cent of the daily average turnover per day for the period of infringement or non-compliance, but not more than 6 months from the date of service of the criminal order for its imposition. The average daily turnover shall be determined by dividing the total annual turnover according to the annual financial statement for the preceding financial year by 365. (7) In the cases under para. 5 and 6, where the legal person is a subsidiary of a parent undertaking, the turnover of the final parent undertaking for the previous financial year shall be taken as a total annual turnover. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 153, para. 1 the words "6 months' shall be replaced by "one year'. 8. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 52: "52." The services referred to in Section C of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 are banking-type ancillary services.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u155	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 66 and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 67. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u156	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 68 and 69. According to § 70 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 431, para. 3 the words of the Central Depository shall be replaced by the central repository of securities led by the Central Depository of the Central Depository of the Central Securities Depository. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 sentence first, the words "the Central Depository' shall be replaced by the Central Securities Register and the second sentence shall be amended as follows: "The Central Securities Register shall immediately inform the relevant Central Depository of securities where the securities are registered and the relevant regulated market for the covered bond.'; (b) in para. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the Central Securities Register and, where applicable, the Central Securities Depository in which the securities are registered and then a comma shall be placed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u157	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 68 and 69 and the version proposed by the Commission for § 70. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u158	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 71 s 73.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u159	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for paragraphs 71, 72 and 73. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u160	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. 26 Finally, a comma is placed and the intake is added. Regulation and issue instructions and other implementing acts, criteria and conditions resulting from the recommendations and guidelines, applicable to the entities covered; (b) in para. 7 words.............................................................................. 1 and 3 1, 3 and 26. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 are created. 4 and 5. The individual administrative acts of the President of the Commission shall be subject to judicial appeal before the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia, according to the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The appeal under para. 4 shall not suspend the execution of the individual administrative act. In the case of an appeal, art. 166 of the Administrative Procedure Code is not applicable. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1, t. The Central Depository shall be replaced by the following: "Central Depository" JSC. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 18 is The processing of personal data by the Commission and its authorities for the purposes of financial supervision shall be considered as a matter of public interest under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC and shall not be restricted by the requirements of art. 12 s 22 and 34 of the same Regulation. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 5 the words "Study in Law" are replaced by "legal internship" within the meaning of the Law on the Judiciary and the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 the words "the performance of its functions and which is a commercial, banking or other secret protected by law or whose disclosure will harm the commercial interest of the persons in question' shall be replaced by the purposes of financial supervision or in relation to it. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. the brokers of financial instruments and investment consultants. 8. In the annex to art. 27, para. 1: (a) in Section I: (aa) in point II, in row 9, the words "for recognition of the acquired qualification of an investment consultant" shall be replaced by the words "for recognition of the acquired rating"; (bb) in item V, in row 43, the words...................................................................................................... The following shall be added to (b) in Section IV, point IV, the words in the 7-day period of notification of the decision on its admission to the exam shall be replaced by the date at the latest 5 days prior to the date of the examination concerned and the words within one month of the receipt of the decision recognising the examination shall be replaced by the date of submission of the application requesting the recognition of the claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u161	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 74 and the text of the importer for § 75. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u162	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 76, 77, 78 and 79: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Bulgarian National Bank (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 39, para. 1 after the words the Investment Intermediaries Restructuring Fund shall be commaed and added by the Central Depository (CSC) for the preservation of the funds of the Fund for guaranteeing the settlement of financial instruments. § 77. The transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Paragraph 131 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Contracting entities shall begin to fulfil the obligation to use the (2) For public contracts whose award has begun until the date specified in the schedule under para. 1 The order of award in force until 1 November 2019 shall apply. This row shall also apply to the conclusion and implementation of framework agreements and contracts, including the transmission of required information. 2. In § 137, the words "from 1 November 2019" are deleted and are finally deleted. Adds the graph according to § 131, para. 1.................................................................................. § 78. In the Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12a, para. 1 sentence, second words................................................................................................ 7' is replaced by 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 words as a percentage of the total amount of assets cashed by the syndicate during the relevant month from the insolvency table and the claims collected during the month by the bank shall be replaced by the management board of the fund in a row defined in a Central Bank regulation. (b) paragraph 7 is repealed. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 2: The claims of the persons who have made the intercepts declared invalid in accordance with art. 59 with effective judicial decisions, shall be entered by the trade union on the list under para. 1. For these claims shall apply art. 100. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. 3 words................................................................................. The 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95, para. 2 after the words "supplied" is added "rights." 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 1 and 4 shall be added after the § 79. The provisions of art. 12a, para. Art. 1, art. 30, para. Art. 3, Art. 64, para. Art. 2, Art. 71, para. Art. 3, Art. 95, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 No. 104, para. 1 and 4 of the Bankruptcy Act shall also apply to the insolvency proceedings of banks opened until the entry into force of this Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 76, which shall become § 80. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 77, which becomes § 81 and in it the words
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u163	Are there any speeches? You have the floor, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal concerns § 77 as regards the deadlines for the implementation of the schedule, which we expect the Bulgarian government to develop. All political forces support the creation of a centralised electronic platform, but for a number of reasons, maybe more than 15 years have been spent around BGN 2 billion and this process has not been completed, which is why we have agreed with colleagues and the Public Procurement Agency (APO). We offer in the text § 131, para. 1 here, in this § 57, to be amended as follows: 39a, para. 1 according to a timetable adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers within three months of the publication of this law. I think that's enough time. They will have one month for public discussions. My colleagues and I have agreed that the three-month deadline is sufficient. However, I take this opportunity to say that we will expect this schedule from the Bulgarian government to be six months from now friendly and collegiately warn that at the end of the first six months we will ask the government for a report with parliamentary form whether it has implemented this recommendation, as it is in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian companies and investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u165	Thank you. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u166	Mr. Gechev, I support what you have done as an offer. I believe that it is normal to put in the Law a period within which the Council of Ministers should make the timetable. In the talks we had with our colleagues from the AOP, they will make a maximum narrow schedule so that the project can be implemented as quickly as possible, but on the other hand, starting with the central departments, they can eventually be tested if there are weak points. However, I would like to suggest that we not set a three-month deadline, but set a specific date. It is purely legal and technical that I am told that since this change is in the "Transitional and final provisions', it is not correct and there is no way to calculate this period. So we have two options: today is the date 10th we say January 10th or 15th, or we say December 31st. I propose January 15th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Professor Gechev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u168	I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u169	You withdraw your proposal for an addition and the deadline becomes the one Mrs. Stoyanova proposed by 15 January 2020. Thank you. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote, first, the proposal made by Mr. Gechev to supplement § 131 para. 1 within the deadline proposed by Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Relations from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] He withdrew the proposal for a three-month period and there the deadline becomes the one you propose by 15 January 2020. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 76, 77, 78 and 79, with the addition to § 77, which we have already voted on, and also the texts of the importer for paragraphs 76 and 77, which become respectively paragraphs 80 and 81. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u170	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create § 77a. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position as § 79. Under § 78, there is a proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 78, which shall become § 82: ............................................................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 60, which shall enter into force 6 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 2. paragraph 67, p. 6 and 7 which shall enter into force as from the day on which the decision of the European Central Bank on close cooperation under art. 7 of Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013 conferring specific tasks on the European Central Bank concerning policies relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions; 3. paragraph 77, which shall enter into force from 1 November 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-10.u171	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 78, which shall become § 82. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 82 was the last. That concludes the vote under the Law. Parliamentary Control Communication on 11 October 2019 Parliamentary Control will begin at 10:00 p.m. 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova, which will happen after 11:00. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Desislav Chukolov. 3. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nikolay Tishev. 4. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer two questions from the MPs Aleksandar Paunov and Krasimir Tzipov. 5. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev. 6. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Nadia Klisurska. 7. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Stanislav Stanilov; Alexander Matsurev and Georgi Dinev; and Anelia Klisarova and Nona Yotova. 8. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Boris Yachev and Rumen Gechev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov at one request from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to a question written by the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to four questions with a written answer from the MPs Maria Ilieva; Nigyar Jafer; Anna Slavova; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. For lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Diana Savateva, her question is postponed to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a pre-planned commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva will not participate. The next regular plenary session is tomorrow, 11 October 2019, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
