ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today we will be working on the extraordinary plenary programme adopted last week: "1." First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. 2. First vote on the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019 Firstly, Members who are yet to be MPs will take an oath. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1674-NS 11 November 2019 on the announcement of Polina Alexandrova Shishkova as MP from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhishki in the 44th National Assembly. With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-21 of 8 November 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 8 November 2019 with which, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the powers of Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov as MP from the Thirteenth Election Region of Pazardzhiski, were suspended from the coalition of BSP for Bulgaria. An application was made with entry No. NS-01-11-1 from 11 November 2019 by Gurko Georgiev Mitev, saying that he does not wish to be declared a member of the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. In view of the applications submitted by Gurko Georgiev Mitev, which is number three on the list of Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria" and after a check of the list A and list B according to multi-manded election districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria" is Polina Alexandrova Shishkova. The Central Election Commission accepts that it should replace the vacant permanent term of office of Jordan Stoyanov Mladenov, given the early termination of his authority. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Polina Alexandrova Shishkova with EGN... as the MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of coalition BSP for Bulgaria Next: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1673-NS 11 November 2019 on the announcement of Dobrin Nenov Danev as MP in the Nineteenth Election Region of Rusenski in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-21 of 8 November 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 8 November 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the powers of Pencho Plamenov Milkov as MP from the Nineteenth Election Region of Rusenski were suspended, raised by Coalition BSP for Bulgaria in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Pencho Plamenov Milkov. After a check of list A and list B according to multi-mandated electoral districts it was found that the next candidate on the list of coalition BSP for Bulgaria is Dobrin Nenov Danev. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Dobrin Nenov Danev with EGN... as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of coalition "BSP" for Bulgaria "from the Nineteenth Election Region" Rusenski. Next is: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1672-NS 11 November 2019 on the announcement of Martin Stefanov Obreshkov as MP from the 18th Election Region "Disgradable," in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-21 of 8 November 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 8 November 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev as MP from the 18th election district of Razgrad, erected by Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria" in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev. After a check of list A and list B according to multi-mandated election districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria is Martin Stefanov Obreshkov. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announces Martin Stefanov Obreshkov as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of Coalition "BSP for Bulgaria"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1671-NS 11 November 2019 on the announcement of Evdokia Slavchova Asenova as MP in the Fourteenth Election Region With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-21 of 8 November 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 8 November 2019 in which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov as MP from the Fourteenth Election Region of Pernishki, raised by Coalition of BSP for Bulgaria (Bulgaria) in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov. Following a check of the list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria is Evdokia Slavchova Asenova. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announces Evdokiya Slavchova Asenova with EGN... as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of Coalition And the last MP to swear today: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1670-NS 11 November 2019 on the announcement of Desislaw Petrov Taskov as MP in the Third Election Region of Varna, in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-21 of 8 November 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 8 November 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the powers of Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova as MP from the Third Election Region were suspended, raised by Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova. Following a check on list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of coalition BSP for Bulgaria is Desislav Petrov Taskov. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Desislaw Petrov Taskov with EGN... as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. Please let the Quaestors invite the MPs to swear. Colleagues, please stand up. [[Everyone gets up.]] Repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u3	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I'll introduce you to two messages. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces for the period from 12 to 16 November 2019 on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will be held a joint Bulgarian-American preparation of the 68th Brigade of Special Forces, with the army of the US Land Forces in Europe. Forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as helicopters from the U.S. Land Forces in Europe will participate in the preparation. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, and to activities to prevent military action conducted by other States (other countries or organisations) armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent and public authorities are notified. The notification was received on 11 November 2019 with entry No 903-09-73 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Next message: An updated audit programme of the Court of Auditors for 2019 has been received by the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly. The program was submitted by letter. No 924-00-19 by the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2020 Importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. They will be the first to introduce us to their report, the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u4	Thank you, Madam President. First, I ask for a procedure for admission to the hall for Mrs. Zheny Nacheva to be admitted to the hall s. Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund, and Dr. Decho Dechev to the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please, voting mode. Vote 174 MPs: for 167, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u6	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 902-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. At a meeting held on 7 November 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Vladislav Goranov Minister; by the Ministry of Health Kiril Ananiev Minister, Zheny Nacheva Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund; Dr. Decho Dechev Manager of the National Health Insurance Fund; representatives of the word, employer and patient organizations, as well as representatives of the trade unions. The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The main objective of the Bill is to provide affordable, quality and timely medical assistance to health insured persons and equal access to health institutions eligible for contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund. The main indicators of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 are the following: I. Revenues and transfers. Total revenue and transfers of 4,744.7 million are expected to take place in the revenue part of the 2020 budget. BGN, or 455.1 million. lv. More than 2019 Health insurance revenues are proposed to amount to 4 640,7 million. lv. or 403,9 million. lv. more than 2019. Of the total amount of health insurance income of 4 640,7 million. lv. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is no need for State aid to be compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or 264,9 million lv. More than 2019, and from transfers to health insurance from the central budget of 1 533.6 million. BGN, or with 139,0 million lv. more than the transfer for 2019. Of non-tax revenue: fines, penalties and penalty interest for 2020 is planned to occur 20,6 million. lv. Transfers are provided by the Ministry of Health to finance the costs of medicinal products and vaccines and activities for their implementation under art. 82, para. 2, p. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; for uninsured health activities involving: intensive treatment, complex dispensary surveillance in patients with psychiatric conditions and complex dispensary surveillance in patients with skin-veneric diseases of 2.1 million. lv.; for activities for health-insecure women under art. 82, para. 1, t. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.; for the amounts referred to in art. 37, para. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv.; for treatment activities for children up to 18 years of age of 12,0 million. lv.; for treatment activities of persons over 18 years of age under art. 82, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and medical devices, aids, devices and facilities for disabled persons outside the scope of compulsory health insurance of 38 million. BGN, i.e. a total of 2020, is provided for 83.4 million. lv. Or 40,4 million. lv. more than 2019 II. Costs and transfers. Total expenditure and transfers for 2020 were estimated at EUR 4 744.7 million. lv. This amount is 394.7 million. lv. More than the amount for 2019. Within the proposed amount for total costs and transfers, only EUR 4,739,2 million is provided for. lv. and to provide transfers to the National Revenue Agency under art. 24, p. 6 of the Health Insurance Act and to budgetary organisations that have concluded contracts for carrying out medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund are 5.5 million. lv. The total amount of expenditure on current expenditure is estimated at 4 595 million. BGN, with this amount being greater by 382.1 million. lv. Out of the same expenditure for 2019; for the acquisition of non-financial assets for 2020 5,0 million are planned. lv. From the amount of the current expenditure, 4 595 million. lv. the most relative share is the cost of health insurance payments, which for 2020 are estimated at 4 4 454 million. BGN, or more by 337,6 million. lv. by the 2019 law. These funds shall be allocated as follows: 1. for primary outpatient medical care 244.0 million lv. 2. for specialized extra-hospital medical care.. including for complex dispensary surveillance 264,7 million. lv. 3. for dental aid 179.8 million lv. 4. for medical-diagnostic activity 94.3 million lv. 5. for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country and for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancies and medicinal products for life-threatening bleedings and emergency surgery in patients with congenital coagulopathy, in the conditions of hospital medical care, which the National Health Insurance Fund pays outside the value of the medical services provided BGN, or with 126,0 million. lv. more than 2019 6. for medical devices administered in hospital medical care 110.0 million lv. 7. for hospital medical care 2 247.3 million. lv. 8. for other health insurance payments with the Bill is offered an amount of 70.1 million. BGN, or 90.3 million. lv. less than 2019, including the entire amount is for medical assistance, provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of social security systems. The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 proposed staff costs of 45,4 million. lv. This amount is greater than the amount of staff expenditure for 2019 by 4.1 million. lv. For the maintenance of administrative health insurance activities for 2020, it is proposed to spend the sum of 12,1 million. lv. For 2020, payments at the expense of the transfers to the Ministry of Health amounted to 83,4 million. BGN, or 40,4 million. lv. more than 2019. This amount is intended to be spent on: 1. medicinal products.. vaccines and activities for their application....... 4.2 2. activities for healthly uninsured persons including: intensive treatment, complex dispensary surveillance in patients with psychiatric conditions and complex dispensary surveillance in patients with skin-veneric diseases lv. 3. activities for uninsured women are envisaged expenditure of 6.7 million. lv. 4 amounts per art. 37, para. In this context, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN 18,4 million, i.e. lv. 5. activities related to the treatment of persons up to the age of 18 under art. 82, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) 6. activities related to the treatment of persons over 18 years of age under art. 82, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. 7. medical devices, aids, gadgets and facilities for people with disabilities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance. lv. In 2020, the amount of the cost of acquiring non-financial assets of 5,0 million is also maintained. lv. For a reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, 139.2 million has been provided. lv. The Bill proposes that transfers to the National Revenue Agency and to budgetary undertakings which have concluded contracts for the provision of medical services with the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 will amount to 5.5 million. lv. The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 is prepared in the current compulsory health insurance contribution of 8 percent, not providing for its change. The NHIF budget bill for 2020 provides for a balanced budget balance. A discussion was held on the bill and various opinions were given. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Nikolay Sharkov expressed principle support for the draft budget, pointing out that the increase of 12 million. $800,000. lv. dental assistance refers to the receipt of free dentures from all patients over the age of 65. He pointed out that dental medicine needs a double budget and called for the next 2021 budget to be more adequate for health insured persons over the age of 18 years, as the dental package for these individuals is extremely poor and includes only filling and teeth removal. In his speech the Vice-President of the Bulgarian Medical Union Dr. Brunzalov expressed satisfaction with the proposed increase for medical activities in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, pointing out that they insist not to increase the volumes in hospital care, but to place greater emphasis on outpatient medical care. According to the President of the National Association of General Practitioners Associate Professor Lyubomir Kirov, the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 is palliative and sustaining vital functions, but not creative, as it provides for an increase of 19 million. BGN, or 6 million. lv. less than their proposal for an increase. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Mr. Vasil Velev expressed in lack of support of the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund as it deepens the disproportions that exist at present. The ratio between the cost of hospital care and medicines and medicines to the cost of health prevention is 8:1, while in the European Union this ratio is 2:1. With the current draft budget, this disproportion is deepening, with hospital and drug spending increasing by 12% and health prevention expenditures increasing by 7% on average. Mr. Vasil Todorov of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry spoke in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 because the proposed increase of the budget is related to strengthening control in the spending of public funds and the introduction of electronic health care, which are not present at the moment. Mr. Plamen Dimitrov, Chairman of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, pointed out that since 1998 the commercial logic in healthcare has had an impact on the parameters and structure of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. He welcomed the increase of the health care function by nearly half a billion leva and pointed out that between first and second readings will insist additionally on 6 million. BGN to fulfill the government's commitment to medical professionals financed through the uniform cost standards. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.Professor Georgi Yordanov and Professor Georgi Mihaylov spoke in the lack of support of the bill, as this is the tenth budget, which continues to be a top priority for e-health, which will strengthen control over the spending of public resources and will allow for objective and up-to-date planning to be carried out; there is no reduction in payments in the healthcare system; there is no engaging in medical activities, so-called clinical pathways, as well as the employment of medical professionals. In addition, Bulgaria continues to devote around 2% of gross domestic product to health, unlike other EU member states, which allocate between 6 and 11%. In addition, 50% of public health funds go to hospital care at 30% in the European Union. While the cost of primary outpatient and primary specialized medical care in Bulgaria decreased from 5.8% in 2018 to 5.2% in 2020, these costs in Europe are between 20 and 30%. People's representative Dr. Nigiar Jaffer of the DPS Parliamentary Group noted that the budget of NHIF is increasing every year, but there is a sustainable non-solvability of health problems, namely: low pay to medical professionals; Bulgarian patients are the most paying in the European Union; municipal hospitals are without perspective and are bankrupt; non-payment of the overlying activities. According to her, this is once again a budget for the drifting reform. People's representatives Dr. Kalin Popovski and Georgi Kolev from the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" and Associate Professor Lachezar Ivanov from the parliamentary group of GERB spoke in support of the budget, stressing that there is a sustainable increase in funds in the field of health, compared with the other Member States of the European Union, should be made a comparison of how much European citizens pay for health and how many Bulgarian citizens. In addition, healthcare is an extremely difficult area for reforms, and they need to be implemented slowly, but securely, in order to preserve the sustainability of the system. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................... 13 MPs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 902-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u8	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm giving your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 902-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. At a joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health, held on 7 November 2019, a draft budget bill for National Health Insurance for 2020, No 902-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Manager of NHIF Dr. Decho Dechev, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, trade unions, employers, word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, who briefed the MPs on the main financial parameters set out in the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. The planned revenues and transfers amount to BGN 4 744 704 900. The funds calculated shall be subject to the admission of a health insurance contribution of 8 per cent, reflecting the effect of an increase in minimum social security benefits by economic activities and groups of professions for employees and the minimum social security income for self-insuring persons, as well as the effect on the amount of transfers for health insurance from an increase in the part of the insurance income on which the State contributes health contributions to the persons insured at the expense of the State budget of 55 per cent of 2016 and 5 per cent per year from each subsequent year until the minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons is reached under art. 40, para. 4a of the Health Insurance Act. The employer's remuneration and health insurance ratio for 2020 is 60 to 40. The planned costs and transfers amount to BGN 4 744 704 900, of which BGN 4 453 976 800. they're for health insurance payments. The planned funds provide for the purchase of medical assistance within the scope of compulsory health insurance guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Mr. Ananiev stressed that in 2020 the funds for health insurance payments for primary and specialized outpatient medical care, medical diagnostic activity, hospital medical care, dental care and medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes are increased. The reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, according to art. 26, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act is three percent of the collected income from health insurance contributions and transfers for health insurance from other budgets and is worth 139 222 000 BGN. The Bill proposes amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act aimed at improving the mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget and establishing a new mechanism for the NHIF to pay regularly to pharmacies and medical institutions allocated, respectively the medicinal products applied, and in the absence of the result of the therapy applied, it is envisaged that holders of the authorisations for the use of the products should repay the funds paid by the NHIF. A whole new approach is also proposed in determining the mechanism for ensuring predictability and sustainability of the budget of the NHIF for medicinal products, instead of the regulation under art. 45, para. 9 of the Health Insurance Act provides for annual adoption of the mechanism by decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF, according to the funds for health insurance payments for medicinal products provided for in the NHIF Budget Act for the following calendar year. The opinion of the Bulgarian Medical Union was presented by Dr. Nikolay Brunzalov, who expressed support for the increase in the spending part of the budget, which will allow for an increase in the prices of underfunded clinical pathways in hospital medical care. At the same time, the recommendations in the World Bank's reports and the management of the National Health Strategy for a fair, sustainable and effective health system oriented towards quality and results have not been taken into account for another year, and it was stressed that the funds provided for in the budget for outpatient medical care are extremely insufficient to implement these recommendations. Dr. Brunzalov clarified that the prices of medical services in specialized outpatient medical care, with the exception of the primary examination, have not been updated for almost 10 years and the prices of medical and diagnostic activities have not been changed since the beginning of 2008, except for a small update of the package. He explained that the insufficient funds provided for in the outpatient medical care bill would worsen the access and quality of the medical service, generate tension between patients and doctors and reduce regulatory standards for prevention. Once again, the question of the fee for visiting a doctor was raised, with the proposal of the word organization being in children until the age of 18 or until the end of secondary education the consumer fee should be paid, as for those who exercised their right to a pension and the difference to the full amount to be provided by the state budget. In conclusion, Dr. Brunzalov stressed that the Bulgarian Medical Union insists on budget funds in the part of primary and specialized outpatient medical care and medical diagnostic activity to be reviewed and increased in order to ensure the needs of the population and the health system as a whole. The President of the Bulgarian Dental Union Dr. Nikolay Sharkov informed the MPs that despite the nominal increase in the budget of NHIF for 2020, the funds for dental aid are insufficient compared to the volume of activities planned to be carried out next year, which, in turn, will make the work of dentists difficult and will have a negative impact mainly on the dental health of Bulgarian citizens. He pointed out that the proposed increase is mainly linked to the removal of the upper limit of 69 years of health-insured persons who are entitled to recovery activities of the chewing machine. At the same time, the dental care package for individuals over 18 years of age remains extremely scarce and does not include basic activities related to the complication of dental caries, such as pulpitis and periodontitis. Attention was also paid to the fact that dental medicinal products and dental materials are included in the cost of dental compulsory health insurance activities and not in the budget for health insurance payments for medicinal products. In conclusion, Dr. Sharkov stressed that when preparing the budget of the NHIF for 2021 these problems should be solved so that dentists can provide timely and quality care to persons over 18 years of age. The President of the National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria Dr. Lyubomir Kirov informed the MPs that the intended means for primary outpatient medical care are not only extremely insufficient, but their distribution is irrational. He pointed out that the publicly requested commitments by the responsible institutions to place emphasis on extra-hospital aid are not supported by the relevant actions in the NHIF budget bill for 2020. According to him, the irrational allocation of funds will worsen the access and quality of the medical aid and the health and economic indicators of the country. The Association proposes the budget for primary outpatient medical care for 2020 to be increased by BGN 25 000 000. compared to 2019 in order to provide normal working conditions for doctors and medical professionals and timely and quality medical assistance to Bulgarian citizens. The discussion was attended by Mr. Vasil Velev, Chairman of the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria and Mr. Vasil Todorov, Secretary General of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. It was pointed out that for another year the budget structure of the NHIF has not changed and again the largest resource is foreseen for hospital medical care and medicinal products, and underfunded remain prevention and prevention, and this trend further deepens existing imbalances in the healthcare system. The bill does not provide for specific measures for the development of eHealth, for strengthening control in the spending of funds, and there are no measures to limit drug abuse. A recommendation was made for the timely preparation of a Strategy for reforming the sector, paying particular attention to the number of hospital care facilities in the country. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health discussed the financial parameters proposed in the Draft and raised specific questions regarding the possibility for the NHIF to ensure the provision of affordable and quality medical assistance to all health-insured Bulgarian citizens within the framework of the proposed budget for 2020. They stressed that increasing the financial resource in itself will not lead to a significant change in the functioning of our health insurance system without the creation of mechanisms for adequate distribution and spending of the funds from the National Health Insurance Fund budget. Attention was paid to the fact that, for another year, no real evaluation of clinical pathways and the work of doctors and other medical professionals was carried out in the distribution of funds. The question was also raised that despite the official opinions of the Court of Auditors and the Financial Council of Bulgaria in 2020, the National Health Insurance Fund will continue to pay the National Revenue Agency a fee for the collection of health insurance contributions. Members of the National Assembly agreed that between the first and second votes on the bill, the main problems should be discussed and the possibilities for solving them should be sought. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 902-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u10	Dear President, before I begin my speech, allow me, on my own behalf, to congratulate you on returning to work and to hope that in this so serious debate that we are about to make, you will also be actively involved as an active user of our health system in the last two months.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u12	This, of course, with the best wishes and the best feeling that you've come back between us. Dear Minister, two years ago at the beginning of your meetings with us, you announced quite frankly from this tribune that our system is sick. It needs a serious transformation, needs a new way of working, and you will offer one. Two years later I quote Mrs. Stoyanova, who in an interview with the BNR said exactly what I will now share that we are getting more of the same. And this in no case can satisfy the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, as it is now in the details of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund that I will argue why this budget will not solve the few main issues that the Bulgarian health system should have solved during these almost four years. There is one year, one year and something until the next elections, if there is no early, of course, but this is within the political forecast. First of all, here I have to correct Mrs. Stoyanova, she said in her report that Bulgaria has separated two and a half percent of its gross domestic product for health care. Thank God it's not so much, Mrs. Stoyanova, it's four and a half percent. But these four and a half percent are far lower than between six and eleven percent, as you well know, and I told you in the Commission, which discussed the current budget, even more so, Mr Minister, against the backdrop of gross domestic product as an absolute figure and against the background of gross domestic product per capita, which, to put it mildly, is unmatched with many of the countries in the European Union! Secondly, what was also pointed out by the Fiscal Council, what was also pointed out by the Association of Employers, what was also pointed out by the CSTB, has a problem with the state participation in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is paradoxical. For people who work under the labour force - BGN 80 Health insurance, for children, pensioners, students, there is no need for you to speak as a person who has been involved in the system for more than 20 years, who suffer the most in Bulgaria. This is a conclusion which is written officially and which is not subject to comment, except a negative one. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u13	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u14	You have an opportunity for a line, Mrs. Daritkova. And we're getting into the specifics of the NHIF budget. We had two loudly advertised meetings by your institution in the summer of 2018, the summer of 2019 and the beginning of autumn 2018. None of them practically came out, but at these meetings representatives of the World Health Organization and the World Bank paid attention to something with which I think you agree so far, and then you agreed: that in Bulgaria 50% of public health funds go to hospital health at the highest number of hospitalizations in the European Union per capita in Bulgaria, in a huge number of hospitals. In all countries of the European Union, the trend is for hospital aid funds to go no more than 30%. The same paradox is in the hospital care ward outpatient and primary outpatient specialized assistance. In all countries of the European Union there are percentages that are between 25 and 30%, in Bulgaria the percentage is far below 20 and this is a trend that is sustained within the current mandate of the government and which in no way solves health problems as in a modern, global, modern world. The backbone of healthcare and its main tasks, which it must solve, must be in the hospital aid, and that is why the EU countries are trying to catch them up. Next, I was very impressed with the cost of medicine and I shared it with the Commission at the time. Now I'm going to take the liberty of repeating it in front of the esteemed audience. Mr. Minister, base onco- and onco-hematological therapy, coagulopathy to be placed in one basket with rare diseases and to separate 99 million. BGN, well, to put it mildly, unprofessionally. Bulgaria has made its commitment through the Lisbon Treaty to patients with rare diseases. It was created by your predecessor the Committee on Rare Diseases directly to the Ministry of Health, but the problems of rare diseases, unfortunately, are solved through the media, which raises a question about one group or another, a certain public pressure, and then some of the problems start to be solved. Therefore, we have a proposal between first and second reading, I officially share it with you now, I shared it with Mrs. Nacheva and Dr. Dechev with the rare diseases, as well as the syndrome of acquired immune deficiency, as well as tuberculosis, to pass under the control of the state. And I have told you in a private conversation that in the Republic of Poland coagulopathy is the product of the National Programme of the Ministry of Health and Efficiency has gone up seriously, and costs have decreased by 50% within four years. Next, something that is extremely important and which made a very serious impression on me, and on this issue I would like to draw attention to the honourable audience, this is the sharp reduction of the funds for coordination programmes between the countries of the European Union, that is, the possibility for Bulgarian citizens to go to treatment abroad, provided that in the Health Committee the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund stated with its authority that there is a tendency to increase the desire of Bulgarian citizens to treat abroad. This is a serious issue where lowering this budget is more than 50%, and that, in my opinion, will create extremely serious tensions in solving each individual case by the institutions of the National Health Insurance Fund. Next, I would like to draw your attention to a problem that is too serious, which has been going since the beginning of this year, where many promises have been shared, which have not been fulfilled until now and which will not be solved through the current structure of the budget. I've shared with you here, it's a matter of principle, it has nothing to do with the Cashier's budget, so I'm going to be very laconic. With this increase, no matter how much leva it is, both for hospital care and for all the NHIF feathers, you cannot provide an imperative and there is no way to make the system in the current structure of sales companies, funding through clinical pathways, to be adequately paid for really are the backbone of Bulgarian healthcare, and these are health care professionals. You have made another regulation, but you know very well, and I know it as an ex-executor when the counterparties of the medical establishment stand against you and you have serious obligations, and the obligations within the system are huge several hundred million leva, I don't want to correct them, because I even hate to say this figure, but you can't... And the thesis that more than 50% should go to hospitals for remuneration is absolutely unsatisfied, as most municipal hospitals go over 80% and yet the remuneration of medical professionals is definitely insufficient, not to say a heavier word here in this serious audience. Therefore, this whole budget cannot be supported by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We will submit our concrete, real proposals between first and second readings, and please comply with them. Otherwise, health problems will in no way be solved next year. By graduating, I'd like to share with you. I am extremely surprised that it has been three years since the functioning of this Parliament, the functioning of this government, and the main ideas with which you appeared in the elections, not you personally, but the political party that is the head of this coalition, none of them have been implemented at the end of the third year. Nothing happened to the electronics of health care. Whatever we say, whatever tender procedure is launched, delayed, we have almost 12 months left, a little more, until the possible regular parliamentary elections. Not to mention the tender procedures for medicines and medical devices, not to mention the postponement of standards for six months, now for 2020 for the payment of medical devices. Not to mention re-export, I don't want to go into details about the re-export control system, the so-called electronic re-export system. That is, looking at this budget, and then looking at the entire budget of the Council of Ministers in the field of health, we do remain unsatisfied and saddened by the fact that the nation does not receive its solution to one of the most important problems for it. I don't want to get into the subject of transplants here either. I have put you an issue on which we cannot see you yet in parliamentary control. Bulgaria envisaged a lung transplant 2021. It was carried out 2019 here, on the territory of the country, and on this issue the management of the Ministry has no real comment. If this can happen in Bulgaria, let him become Minister! But this is just a fragment of everything that is happening in healthcare and this is us, as a political formation, seriously worries us. Therefore, we will have our concrete proposals and will not support this budget. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Replices, coworkers? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u16	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Budget 2020 of the National Health Insurance Fund was presented as a sustainable and predictable budget. I will try to present our opinion on why, according to the government, the advantages of this budget are shortcomings in our view. We agree that this budget is sustainable, that is, a fact. However, we believe that this sustainable budget supports sustainable trends and they are the negative for the Bulgarian patients, negative for the people who work in the health system. First of all, the negative trend in the system is confirmed to work low-paid medical professionals. The fact is that nurses and midwifes, lab technicians have been protesting for almost a year and there's no hope of getting more. It confirms the tendency for patients in Bulgaria to be the most paying in the whole of the European Union, the most paying and late diagnosed due to the lack of certain measures to be taken so far. The tendency of municipal hospitals to be without perspective and without hope of strengthening regional hospitals is confirmed. The next trend is confirmed not to pay the excess activity and at the moment to put the cassa in a situation to think about how to pay the interest rates on the court cases that the hospitals won. Another trend is confirmed and it is a very sustainable increase in funds that are outstanding, which we owe to foreign hospitals. Yes, the budget is sustainable and it is sustainable with these sustainable trends. That is to say, we are encountering a new budget again, a new one, an old one, and there is no hope for this budget to be resolved this year as well. Many names of this budget can be used, it is likely that this will happen shortly in the speeches of fellow Members, the budget of the shifting reform, the budget of the dreary and the growing costs, the budget of the bought temporary tranquility by the government, because still more money gives some calmer months in which there is no tension. Whether that happens or not, we're about to see. I would like, for colleagues who are not in the Health Commission and who do not follow the problems with the Health Insurance Fund's budget, to do a retrospective. In 2018, we voted 407 million more in this House. In 2019, we voted 490 million more for the budget of health and health care. This year there are 404 million more in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, and they, together with the money and the increase for the Ministry of Health, are about 450 million more. So what, fellow Members?! So what if there is no answer to the following questions or rather there is: will this budget lead to better efficiency? Effectiveness means achieving the effects we would like to observe in the health system. I don't think so. The answer is: hardly. Improving the state of the medical institutions is hardly possible. Will it lead to a reduction of the funds owed to foreign clinics, which according to Deputy Minister Zheny Nacheva are 280 million at the present time.......................................................................................... Then when will we see positive trends and a reversal of these trends? What about the Unified Information System, just as Professor Mihailov asked? Where did we get her on e-health? Are there analytic units in the Health Insurance Fund or in the Ministry of Health because it was said that these will be created and actually these analyses should be done there? Is the megaagency working? What's she doing, what's she done, what's she analyzing, what's the effect of creating? Megaagency, which we created through the transitional provisions of the last budget of the Health Insurance Fund. What about paying off the excess work? In fact, the National Health Insurance Fund falls short of the obligations we impose on it every year. The Fund for the Treatment of Children Abroad was transferred there last year. This year we will commission to pay the medical supplies to people with disabilities. All obligations that should actually be covered by the amount I just talked about will increase the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. That is why we are proposing a change in some of the policies, bearing in mind that very few of the so-called reform and reform measures can be taken here through this budget. In fact, the National Framework Treaty is the most important treaty for every citizen of Bulgaria because it literally affects the health and life of Bulgarian citizens, it can take steps. First, you need to reconsider the preventive package. It should be effective, screening, aimed at early diagnosis, not formal examinations, for which fellow physicians wonder how to absorb some funds, and patients do not show any interest in them simply because they are formal and fictitious. Rethinking the role of so-called regulatory standards, so-called directions. There's no room for any limit here. There is no way to reduce hospitalizations if there is not enough resources for primary outpatient care, for examinations in specialists outside hospitals or for medical-diagnostic activity. Unfortunately, the balance of funds for outpatient care and those given for hospital care remains the same with a tendency to increase money for hospitalization. It should finally be considered to set aside a resource of sufficient resources, for healing and long-term treatment, for the hospices. It is no secret that medical institutions are currently performing social functions. If a stroke patient is discharged on the fifth day because the clinical path requires this, the question of his family remains open to the public, what happens to him. It is much cheaper to be in a healing unit, in hospice, but this resource must be financially secured. Otherwise, the parameters were mentioned. Maybe we should mention that out of the 404 million. lv. In fact, 260 million. lv. come from an increase in the amount of the minimum wage, from the minimum insurance thresholds, from the increase in wages. The increase in the income from health insurance contributions will be 9.3%, only that the Fiscal Council has calculated that this increase is overrated and will most likely not be reached. I just remind you that for hospital care in Bulgaria 50% of the resources are allocated, compared to 30% on average for the European Union, 30% on medicines are allocated to the budget, compared to 18% on the European Union. However, again, the main increase will go for these two feathers. For prevention in Bulgaria was released 12%, at 25% average European values. However, the payments each patient pays are 50% for 20% in the European Union. Here are these last two indicators which require the Bulgarian patient to be qualified as the most paying and lately diagnosed. Dear Minister, we agree with you that sustainability and predictability are budget characteristics. Nevertheless, we continue to say that there is room for bolder reforms. We'll support you. However, these reforms are not in this budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u17	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. The next statement was said by Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In recent decades in Bulgaria and worldwide healthcare expenditures have increased significantly in relation to the achievements in the field of medicine, both diagnostic and therapeutic. Bulgarian citizens receive all achievements in the field of medicine, starting from the imaging diagnostics through personalized medicine. Our compatriots have better access to medical services than many European countries. Here we should note that Bulgaria's starting position in the area of financing, compared with the countries of the European Union, started at extremely low levels after 10 November 1989. Our country reached its economic opportunities, which it had until 1989, only in 2002. 13 years of downfalls, wandering and timelessness in the economic development of our country. The other countries of the post-communist period for these 13 years put their economy on the right track of economic growth and development. This is precisely what defines the catch-up function of our country in the European Union in the area not only of healthcare, but also in all other areas. Health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product is 4.5%. Here we should also do a brief analysis of Bulgaria's economic growth and gross domestic product. For 2018 it is 3,6%, for 2019 In addition, it is expected to be 3,3% for 2020 at 3.4%. Put another way, Bulgaria has an average growth of 3.3% sustainable, while economic countries in Europe have an average of 1.7%. Every year, in an attempt to improve the quality and access of health care of all Bulgarian citizens, we increase the volume of activities in medicinal products and medical devices that are paid from the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, accordingly we make the necessary efforts for their financial security. We cannot fail to note that Bulgaria is one of the few countries in the European Union, which has such a comprehensive basic package, guaranteed access to timely medical care, specialized and highly specialized. At the same time, there is no waiting list, colleagues! Bulgaria is one of the four countries in the European Union, which introduces innovative medicinal products in a timely manner, which should also not be forgotten, which are quite expensive. I will now look a little more closely at the financial parameters for 2020. Next year the expenditure on the NHIF budget increased by 394 million. lv. As compared to 2019. Primary medical aid is increased by 19 million. lv.; Specialized outpatient medical care lv.; Medico-diagnostic activity with 4.3 million lv.; dental activities - 12.8 million lv.; hospital medical care.. 233.8 million. lv.; for medicinal products, medical devices, diet food and specialized medical devices, by 126 million lv.; for medical devices administered in hospital medical care by 6 million lv. The planned funds aim at providing affordable quality and timely medical assistance to health insured persons and equal access to health institutions eligible for contracts with the NHIF to provide medical and dental activities at a higher level. NHIF will purchase medical activities from the medical institutions. I am accentuating! It will purchase activities in 2020 that will be the sole payer for services rendered. In 2020, in the area of primary outpatient medical care, the scope of health-insured persons with preventive examinations and immunizations on the immunization calendar increased. Additional stimulation of general practitioners based on the quality of medical care is envisaged. In the field of specialized extra-hospital medical care are provided additional funds for two new for separate payment highly specialized activities for the specialty of the university and Gynecology. It's a colposcopy, no target biopsy, an abrasion on a cervical canal. A larger scope of consultative examinations shall be provided for the specialist obstetricians. In the field of hospital care in the forthcoming agreed process between the Bulgarian Medical Union and NHIF, I would like to say that the Ministry of Health has stated its readiness the prices of clinical pathways will be increased, from 200 to 215 clinical pathways. This happens for the first time, where the logic for paying the clinical pathways will shift the lobbys. This will be done through the application of a European valuation factor. A new moment in the NHIF will be updated control, the introduction of verification codes into hospital care in the discharge of medicines. This will have a two-sided effect on once, reducing drug spending, and, secondly, reducing and stopping re-export. Another control method will be a QR-code that will be introduced when performing operations in the field of ophthalmology, i.e. recording of operations. With regard to genetic tests, control will be tightened for the treatment of oncological and oncotherapy administered in our country. The following year will also extend the access of health-insured persons to the application of hospital care and medical devices as follows: intramodular titanium locking nails of femur, humerus and tibia, self-extending biological prosthesis for entirely stitchless positioning, the production of calf pericardium, a system for stimulation of nervus vagus for the treatment of medicated resistant epilepsy. And cardioverter defibrillators will be provided to 300 health-insured individuals at the risk of sudden cardiac death. It is planned to ensure that the level of payment of medical devices administered under the conditions of outpatient medical care is increased. A new subset of medical devices, a system for continuous monitoring of blood glucose levels, is envisaged for diabetic patients. The Bill proposes amendments and additions to the Health Insurance Act aimed at improving the mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget and creating a new mechanism for the NHIF to pay regularly to pharmacies and medical institutions allocated, respectively the applied medicinal products. In the absence of results of applied therapy, it is envisaged that the marketing authorisation holders of the products will recover the funds paid by the NHIF. In conclusion, we should note that Bulgarian healthcare is facing a change of model. In order to choose this model and have a vision for the next 20 years, it must go through a thorough analysis and dialogue with society and all those working in the field of health. This approach cannot be carried out quickly, as most of us wish. He needs to go through several preparatory stages. First, the introduction of a single information system. Secondly, the introduction of an individual file. Thirdly, actuarial estimates and the need for finance to make a change. Fourth, finding a balance between the interests of patients, of the medical performers and the state. The listed stages make us extremely careful and cautious, even conservative in choosing a model for future generations. We will seek maximum support from society to change the model by which we will help fill the existing gaps and gaps in funding our system. On the basis of everything I have set out here before you, I believe that the proposed budget of the NHIF for 2020 will ensure the sustainability of the health system and provide timely quality and affordable medical assistance for all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u20	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Doctor Ivanov, you have presented us with a modern and evolving health system with good prospects. However, I have two questions for you. The first question is: how would you comment on the fact that the cases of preventable death in developed countries are 70% and we have 30%? This means that in 100 patients at risk for life in developed countries save 70 of them and in Bulgaria only 30. Secondly, one of the biggest ulcers, which, unfortunately, external experts had to tell us again! It's the extra charge. How with this budget will we reduce this huge 40%, and in some cases more, additional payments to Bulgarian citizens in the use of medical care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u21	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Doctor Ivanov! I have listened carefully to your speech, despite the fact that there were texts and specifics in it, which is not at all appropriate for the parliamentary room, I do not want to go back to that, but respecting your political desire to protect the budget, I would like to tell you a few things so that you understand me well. First of all, regarding your wide-proclaimed access to personalized medicine. I want to ask you: Do you have any idea that there are currently no basic medications for oncotherapy in Bulgaria, such as vincristin? Call where you want to go to medical institutions to ask how things are with basic therapies in terms of oncology, to see how serious the drug policy in the country is. Secondly, Dr. Ivanov, the lack of waiting list proclaimed by you. Well, don't you know how many waiting lists there are for one of the most crucial problems for the Bulgarian nation - organ, tissue and cell transplantation? How long are they waiting for a kidney transplant, how long are they waiting for a heart transplant, how long are they waiting for a liver transplant, how much for a lung transplant, and if we're walking at the rate we're going to be going so far, how many years from now are we gonna get to solving this problem? Next, Dr. Ivanov, regarding the immunization calendar. The immunization calendar! You must have received the letters from the preventive medicine companies, and from many other companies, and their, to put it mildly, surprises about how the budget for prevention of infectious diseases has been changed in 2020. Last but not least, I want to tell you about what you basically put as a problem the starting position of Bulgaria. I will tell you as a hematologist: 2002 Romania was far behind us in all its capabilities of high-tech medicine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u23	Time's up, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u24	Seventeen years later, Dr. Ivanov, we are in an unenviable position against Romania, let alone against the other countries of the European Union. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u25	Thank you. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u26	Dear Dr. Yordanov, on the first question I would like to share that since in Bulgaria in the field of cardiology was introduced invasive cardiology, mortality for the past 10 years.. because you have set an example, I will talk with figures, the mortality in Bulgaria has sharply decreased by about 18% since the moment of the introduction of invasive cardiology as discipline. The second thing I want to give as an argument is that in the last 10 years the life expectancy of Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria has increased by two years. I believe that this, as the care of the state for our patients, is a good indicator. Another thing I would like to address is Dr. Mihailov, as he spoke about personalized medicine, I can give examples that the Bulgarian state is actively involved in the so-called European programme for personalized medicine and I think that you know very well that we have the so-called European centre in the field of neurology. It's for you, Dr. Mihailov. Then we will talk about personalized medicine exclusively in the area in which you are involved. I think that the choice there specifically of medicines and medicines, especially for people with genetic diseases, also has a very broad place that is involved in personalized medicine. This is also the case in Bulgaria in gastroenterology and in neurology. So I believe that Bulgaria as a small country with, say, modest economic opportunities, is actively involved in development and for me this is the future of personalized medicine. Secondly, you said about the waiting list. I will answer you, Dr. Mihailov: can you tell me a country in the world where there is no waiting list for a transplant? You from this tribune make extremely bad suggestions to Bulgarian citizens and do not see the smile why it is, given that we are the people here who need to give security to Bulgarian citizens and tell them that the state is working to protect their interests. I want you to stand up here like a line, or when you find the right shape, and tell me: in which country there is no waiting list? There's no waiting list for lungs, liver, kidneys? Please don't speculate on people's fear and make suggestions here. I also want to say that you know very well what huge efforts are being made for haematology and oncohemology as a former head of the clinic. I have listened very carefully to your statement and I think that as far as patients who have an onco-hematological illness are concerned, and you are talking about money, and spending money... Let's get you out of the stands here and say, what percentage of the money that's being given is going to oncology, and you speculate on people's ignorance of vincristiny? They are not obliged to know the preparations as the first generation to choose treatment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman, but these are important topics. You speculate on this tribune, plant fear and uncertainty in the system, while with the budget that we are talking about, we want to ensure that all citizens are at peace, that they will be served in the best way if necessary. Therefore, when we speak and when we make political statements from this tribune, I think that they should respond to reality and not create fear in the population. Thank you. Sorry about the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u28	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u29	For a personal explanation, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u30	That's a line. What personal explanation? That's a line, a replica, what's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u31	No, it's a statement, but I'm only asking if you're offended.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u32	It's a doppelganger. What is it, what is it? It's a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House! Dear Dr. Ivanov, not knowing the problems does not allow a firm attitude towards them. You're asking everyone here, including me, which country doesn't have a waiting list for an organ transplant? But do you realize that since the beginning of the year we have been talking here, the honourable Minister admitted that in our country the problems with organ transplantation are at an extremely serious low level...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u34	Mr. Mikhailov, I can't find any elements of a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u35	...that things are going in a very bad direction. And in terms of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u36	Excuse me, but there's no personal explanation here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u37	How can there not be a personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u38	That's what you're already dating. Excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u39	Fear was planted. Do you have any idea how the problems are...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u40	Finish the speech, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u41	...how the problems stand and how we're gonna solve them...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u42	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u43	...with political statements that we want peace? [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u44	Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Mihailov! You're going outside the limits of your personal explanation. Next statement, Mr. Popovski, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u45	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The 2020 budget has really been increased by another 400 million in a declining population of Bulgaria, so I hope that in the framework of this mandate there will finally be some reforms that we have long dreamed of. Reforms should be made for the fact that there are two or three very serious problems over the years that have become, of course, and in previous governments, for which Minister Ananiev has no direct guilt. I merely quote that the hospital's aggregate debt is currently over 500 million, the Cassata's outstanding over-limitary obligations to hospitals are over 150 million. These are some very serious figures that we should never forget, and we should already look for ways to reduce these amounts as much as possible with this budget. In this budget, there are also some unsaved ratios, which are recommended by the Fiscal Council, especially for medicines where we refinance a very serious percentage. Thirty per cent is quoting the Board of Fiscals, although I considered them with a simple calculator, 26 per cent are, not 30, but the recommendation is 15 per cent. So we're refinanced by about 400 million amounts that we can distribute into other items of this budget to equalize some incorrect ratios that have been created over the years. All this reflects on the low wages, especially the state hospitals. I remind the audience that the public hospitals are the backbone of Bulgarian healthcare at present they are about 65 in the state, 28 district hospitals with priority of state participation, and 30 and several 100% state hospitals, these are university hospitals. Without these hospitals, there's no health care. Even if we do a clinical experiment: to close for one month the other three types of hospitals, municipal, private and official under art. Five, state hospitals won't know the others are closed. The opposite would be scary. In one month to stop working the state hospitals, an apocalypse occurs in the state. I only remind the audience of this because it is the public hospitals that are heavily underfunded by this model of the system. I hope the Ministry and with some regulations, and then in the contractual process between the Cassata and the Bulgarian Medical Union, some percentages, some ratios in the prices of clinical pathways can be regulated in a simple way Over the years we have witnessed that some of the paths are quite financed according to the opportunities of the Bulgarian budget, again I say, and some are totally underfunded and therefore some of the hospitals assume these negative debts, which, I say again, are more than 500 million aggregate debts of all hospitals in Bulgaria. The big problem is also in the overhospitalization, which is insane for Bulgaria between two and three million, i.e. two Bulgarian citizens have at least one entry for hospitalization in the relevant calendar year, which is a lot. We have recommendations from the World Health Organization for this percentage, which is insanely high. That is why it is abnormally high and the rate of funding hospital healthcare.. is precisely because we have superhospitalization of our system, which is totally liberal and patients are entering for things that can be treated in outpatient conditions. This is a severe disability of our system that accumulates over the years and comes to these proportions. A small defense of the minister from the opposition. I can say that we are still at 8% health contribution and that is why we finance about half of Bulgarian healthcare through the eight-percent health contribution, which is why we pay for serious figures in private hospitals, and that is why pharmacies pay almost everything, except for a few diagnoses and medicines, we pay everything 100%. All this comes from the 8% health contribution. If it is 15%, as in Germany, medicines and pharmacies will be almost 100% free, but we need to amend another law that you well know. So we cannot claim that in Bulgaria the medicines are paid precisely because we, I recall, are only on the 8% health contribution. I therefore appeal to the Minister and to the administration to consider this total budget of 4 billion 744 million, what can be done next year? Quick measures, a new collective employment contract, a new framework contract, which is between the Contracting Parties, are about to rise some of the really incorrect ratios in prices Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, dear Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The main conclusion that can be drawn is that the country's 2020 budget does not provide for health reforms. I was going to point out some other arguments, but the main thing we can say is that the current budget, specifically for the health system, is repeating the structure of the budget of 2018 - 2019 - and for this year, there is no change - as colleagues before me have said - in improving the disproportion between hospital and hospital aid, financing and money for medicines. Within the European Union, we are once again the country that will be with this huge imbalance, despite the recommendations of the European Commission and the reports with recommendations made by our competent partners from international structures. Colleague Ivanov and colleague Popovski from the ruling majority said that 4.5% of the country's gross domestic product is foreseen for healthcare. Rather, we should point out correctly that our country is equalised to European countries in terms of the funds that are part of gross domestic product and reach up to 8.2%. How does that work? This is obtained by the additional payment that our fellow citizens carry out in the healing process and in the functioning of the healthcare system, only up to 30% the additional payment is indicated as a critical limit and in our case the additional payment is 44%. This is extremely worrying, and in this regard it is really necessary for all of us to think. What I would like to say is that repeatedly from this high tribune and not only when considering the budget, our behaviour is not only opposition, but extremely concerned with the fact that these reforms are really needed. I will quote again my colleague Popovski, who said that next year the systems within healthcare will be balanced and appropriate reforms will be envisaged. I ask: when, when, when, when in this budget in the last year of the management of this mandate, if everything is normal, are not the relevant reforms laid down? Reforms are mainly carried out through the structure of the budget and by predicting the relevant reforms as we have repeatedly pointed out. Our position has always been that, with regard to the health insurance system, it is good to have competition and demonopolization of the National Health Insurance Fund. Again, nothing like this is scheduled for next year. The intentions and timid steps that have been outlined must find their real expression. In addition, you, the ruling majority, have indicated that there is a huge imbalance with regard to clinical pathways, unfortunately. First steps are being taken, but they need to be even more radical in order for the system to function adequately and to have a balanced funding of all clinical pathways. We are concerned, as Dr. Jeffer pointed out, regarding the pay of the work of all who work in the healthcare system. With what's being offered, there's hardly any improvement in pay. This is very worrying not only in view of the protests being carried out, but in view of the fact that a large part of our qualified, competent medical staff is precisely why they are leaving the country, but we must not forget that this is also a very important element of national security. Many more components may be referred to as imbalances. We all need to unite ourselves to really have a non-party political consensus, to start reforms, but obviously the current ruling majority does not have the political will to implement the relevant reforms, not even to mention radical reforms in healthcare and to improve the functioning of the system, because this is an important element of national security, and not only to justify ourselves, as life in our country has been extended for one or two years, yes, it must be further extended in order to reach the normal parameters as they are in the European Union. Serious reforms are needed, which are absent and not present in the next year's draft budget, which must be implemented in the healthcare system. We will continue to stand up for our proposals, as set out in the DSS election programme and platform, because this is the right approach. We will also make the relevant proposals, but hardly, since we know how to vote, the respective objectives will be achieved. We must continue and implement reforms in the healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Yordanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u49	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Traditionally at first reading we discuss the philosophy of the corresponding budget, in this case the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. This budget we are discussing is the twenty-first. Since the establishment of the National Health Insurance Fund in 2000, 21 budgets have been discussed and, unfortunately, the same mistakes have been made, despite the numerical increase in the funds allocated to healthcare. How do you make a budget? It goes through studying the needs of medical care, studying and evaluating the medical activities that are needed and assessing the funding opportunities. First, identification of medical needs. Dear colleagues, I can most responsiblely tell you that we do not know what the current needs for medical care in our country are. Why? Because there's no health information system. Without a health information system, we have come to the point that this demon of Bulgarian healthcare, called the clinical path, imposed a template on the diseases of Bulgarian citizens when they were admitted to hospitals and no longer take account of the specific disease of the patient, but the algorithm of the so-called clinical path, which the National Health Fund should pay for. First of all, a modern health information system must be built without it all other efforts will hit stone. We have been talking for so many years that it should be built and not built and I already suspect that it is not built on purpose because the presentation of the true state of the Bulgarian healthcare system is not very positive. Because if we do, we need to explain why the accessibility of patients from the geographically remote territories of the country is not respected at the expense of those who are in its central parts in large cities, and under the Constitution they have equal access rights to the health system. Secondly, the assessment of medical activities. Paradoxically, in today's world, an activity cannot be valued. In a moment, I will tell you how important one of its main parameters is, called the work of medical professionals, and not just medical professionals. But I think it is quite easy to value the clinical path, because in this case some clinical pathways are found to have unrealistic high values and lead to high pay for medical professionals who work them, while others are not more important for patients, are low rates. Just one example. We discussed pediatrics a lot. In pediatrics, this extremely important work of colleagues turns out to be financially undervalued. How can we ask them to devote themselves to healing the health of the future of the nation? The work of medical specialists in all categories. It's a basic thing and without it we can't. Currently he was thrown to individual medical facilities, to individual units. Thus, it can no longer go on, because the case in Pazardzhik is not the only one, and if the state in the Prime Minister's face reacts in an adequate way, it must be done, there must be justice in paying medical professionals. After all, every work of the medical professional is important, no matter where he places it. The lack of appreciation of the work of medical specialists led to the fact that we have two main categories, the absence of which leads to a disaster for Bulgarian healthcare. The first is the so-called family doctors or the GPS. The lack of appreciation for their work has led to the fact that we do not have enough people in significant regions in the country who want to work as a GPS. This is a major problem, because in these areas the Jeep is practically the only one with emergency medical care, a health care factor to which the patient can go. Emergency measures need to be taken here, even more against the background of missing family doctors - not only in Bulgaria, but also as a global trend. Secondly, nurses, midwifes, lab technicians. Dear colleagues, clinics are already closing in Europe because they don't have nurses. Here we have buried our head in the sand like an ostrich and use the remaining nurses in Bulgaria, some of whom are old enough to be alive and healthy, to work two or three shifts one after another, although they are over 70 years old, because they are physically unable to cover all the needs of their activities. Thirdly, the possibility of funding. Yes, the possibility of funding can best say it with his expertise on our health minister. We see that for other reasons every year it increases by more or less. The point is that in this state of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, with this moving only on the lines of the numbers, without the reform that Professor Chakarov spoke about, we cannot achieve modern and adequate healthcare. That's what's gotta happen! But I also understand the Minister. How can we do that when we don't have an information system? How can it be done when we have no value of medical activity and also the possibility of funding? Here Dr. Jeffer has already raised the question that the state alone decides how much to pay to certain categories of citizens of the country it provides. She has decided that here she will pay less there, but the medical service for these categories of children and adults, mostly, and civil servants, is relatively most efficient. That's where most medical activities are used. My fellow Members, I think we cannot support this budget. The budget will lead to what we are witnessing: depopulation of the periphery of Bulgaria and filling of Terminal 2. I would therefore like all of us together to draw up an adequate budget with the necessary reforms, for which the Minister of our hope, Minister Ananiev, so nicely started working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Timchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you could extend the group's time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u52	It's already extended!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u53	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As a direct participant and a witness to what is happening in healthcare in Bulgaria and another budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which we consider in this Chamber, I have concluded that our health system is not health insurance, it is budgetary and hence the health care problems as poor quality and difficult access. In this budget and relations are the same, and relative shares are the same, meaning nothing happens. The distribution is the same as in last year's Bill. But what makes an impression? The payment of payments due on 30 June to foreign health insurance funds amounting to 271 million has been agreed. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. But what about the debt of municipal and regional hospitals, the poor conditions, as well as those working there and the patients? Dear Minister, do you think anyone believes that in the remaining time of this mandate you will do something to improve health care in Bulgaria and some reform, change in the model of financing the system? Since the beginning of the year, the health system has been shaking with unwinding protests. They protest municipal and regional hospitals working in individual hospitals and citizens from settlements. They protest because of their low wages and poor working conditions, against closed wards, failing hospitals, left without concern for their future. If several settlements protested in 2018, then this year the protests covered the whole country. In the years of elections, you have done your best to mend the situation, but for years you have delayed the reform of the system and every move is already wrong. And in this budget, you decided not to touch anything. You offer a closed budget framework. And what do you accomplish with that? You achieve an uniform system in which some specialists protest for higher remuneration, but there are also those who receive several tens of thousands. The effectiveness of spending funds is being questioned. Despite the increase in health money by nearly 400 million. BGN, the money flows into an unreformed system. We know the solution and it is a radical change in the system management model. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! This budget lacks the main factor for which the system exists. This is the patient. He will continue to pay from his pocket more than 50% of the value of the health service. This budget will not work for the benefit of patients and therefore we will not support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in the little time we have left, at the risk of bringing concern to the system, I would like to say the arguments with which we will not support the proposed budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. First of all, the proposed Cashier's budget project for next year does not solve any of the problems of the healthcare system. I'm not saying they're from today, from yesterday, from this year or a few years ago. They are system for the sector and, unfortunately, they do not find a solution in the proposed draft budget of the Casa for next year. Next, because the budgetary framework is a financial plan for the implementation of the policies that are described in the relevant special laws, because there are no innovative creative measures, as you have said, Mr Minister, in the policies that you are proposing through the relevant legislation, there is no way that there will be scheduled financial measures in the budgetary framework for the next year. When we adopt all the measures that you have been talking about for a long time, when we introduce the model you are talking about, then there will probably also be a financial impact on these policies. Next, in terms of revenue. Dear Minister, the revenue section is written in a way in which the proposals in the respective laws are implemented, nothing from the heart, nothing by the will of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Health, because these 400 million. BGN, which are proposed, is the impact of the increase of the minimum wage, the increase of salaries in the budget sector, the increase of minimum insurance thresholds in relation to the increase of the minimum wage. All this makes me think that even this additional financial resource is only a reflection of the measures that are envisaged. I don't want to think, dear Minister, that we accept the revenues, given that we have not accepted the minimum wage, and you know that the minimum wage is accepted by a decree of the Council of Ministers and this will happen after New Year's. What if, God forbid, employers dispute because we have already adopted the ILO 132 Convention which regulates the mechanism for accepting the minimum wage, and if the Administrative Court decides that these texts should be dropped? What's going to happen to the proceeds? This is an extremely serious issue that needs to be resolved. Finally, unfortunately, the proposed budget, despite the increased funding for the hospital aid budget, does not answer the question: what happens to nurses' salaries? Let us hope that this issue will be resolved with the National Framework Treaty. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u56	Thank you, too. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Let's tell each other some truths! First, since the beginning of the adoption of the Health Insurance Act, in force from 1 January 1999, and the introduction of compulsory health insurance, as well as the structuring of the National Health Insurance Fund, to date there have been numerous changes of both legal and technical nature and financial nature. Over the years, changes have been made in the structure of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund by type of activity, most of which are carried out on the basis of changes in the Health Insurance Act. In 2008, however, it was noticed that legal texts started to transfer administration activities from the National Health Insurance Fund, which had nothing to do with health insurance, and under Law they were functions of the Ministry of Health. These are explicitly listed in the revenue section in row 3 of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund, and I quote: 1, t. 1.4, and I quote: the contribution of transfers from the Ministry of Health, with a resource of 83,4 million allocated for this activity for 2020. lv. However, the trial continues now in our Forty-fourth National Assembly. In 2019, the Act on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund commissioned it to administer and pay public financial resources to medical devices, aids, facilities and facilities for people with disabilities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance. Secondly, there are no actuarial estimates for the existence of administrative, financial and personnel capacity for the quality and timely implementation of these new functions assigned to the National Health Insurance Fund anywhere in the reports, including those for the report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Thirdly, under the proposed parameters for staff costs, we have a little over 45 million. BGN, for the maintenance of administrative activities of just over 12 million. lv. The cashier's administrative capacity is not guaranteed. Moreover, for the significant amounts of capital expenditure and maintenance, which we will now vote on, we have no guarantee that, instead of going to the right place, again with a decision of the Supervisory Board, they can go for health insurance payments. We are voting for an organisation to manage an efficient, efficient and economical public financial resource in large amounts 745 million. BGN, and from this resource we MPs do not provide decent remuneration for the workers in this organization. The level of expertise in the National Health Insurance Fund is directly in our hands. The responsibility of the National Assembly on the protection of patients' personal data is direct because no one in this room, in this regard to the National Health Insurance Fund, can guarantee that the case of the National Revenue Agency will not be repeated. Fourth, referring to the National Revenue Agency, it is unacceptable for the National Health Insurance Fund to continue paying the National Revenue Agency for collecting health insurance contributions and for the Ministry of Health not to pay for the administration of activities. Therefore, between the first and second votes, we will propose some amendments that will also concern the work of the National Health Insurance Fund in order to optimize its functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Borisov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 aims primarily to provide affordable quality and timely medical assistance to health insured persons. It shall be drawn up in accordance with the budgetary framework and shall ensure the health insurance package within the scope of compulsory health insurance. The draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 provides for 394 million. $700,000. lv. more than 2019. The increase in income and expenditure resources fully meets the needs and trends in the country and gives more security to health insured persons and operators in the system. The draft budget bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 is in line with the regulation setting out priorities and policies in the field of health and compulsory health insurance. The set parameters create a stable financial framework for the negotiation process under the National Framework Treaty for 2020. Health insurance payments for primary and extra-hospital medical care are expected to increase to 244 million. lv. Or 19 million. lv. more than planned for 2019. This will ensure that primary medical care is provided to all healthcare providers. The aim is to increase health-insured individuals with preventive examinations and immunizations on the immunization calendar with the aim of early detection and prevention of diseases. Hospital medical care. The funds for hospital medical care provided for in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 amount to 2 billion. The Commission 282 thousand. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the The aim is to extend the access of health-insured persons to modern, high-tech and highly effective treatment methods. It is estimated that about two million and two hundred thousand hospitalizations will be financially provided on clinical pathways annually and over one and a half million clinical and outpatient procedures. The draft budget 2020 of the National Health Insurance Fund also provides 126 million. lv. more than the previous year for medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods. The planned amount aims to ensure the treatment of Bulgarian citizens with affordable, modern, efficient and effective medicines. More than one and a half million patients are expected to turn to the pharmacies network to receive medicines for home treatment. A reduction of the intended means of payment for medicinal products with a protocol for which expertise is required is observed. The project budget for 2020 provides for an amount of 365 million. lv. On the other hand, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 900,000. lv. for underlying therapy for cancer and onco-hematology, coagulopathy, and other rare diseases. The most sensitive is the growth of the intended agents for the treatment of malignancy in hospital care. As there is still an increase in expenditure on this budget item, the Project Budget for 2020 provides for 466 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. more. The increase of nearly 80 million. lv. It aims to provide patients with modern and adequate treatment. The 2020 budget provides for 17 million. lv. for medicinal products with new international non-proprietary names. In medical devices, the estimated growth rate is 6 million. BGN, with an increase of up to 110 million. lv. Naturally, increased control over the prescription and release of medicinal products will continue. The cost control mechanism to be applied in 2020 is the negotiation of concessions by the National Health Insurance Fund for all medicinal products in the Positive Drug List. The draft budget of the Health Fund for 2020 is by no means revolutionary. It is rather conservative, but aims to ensure predictability and sustainability of the healthcare system. And if there are numbers in every budget on one side, on the other side are policy options. In this case, we have a draft budget offering over 400 million. lv. more to health. I propose that we support the proposed budget and that anyone who has constructive proposals make it between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u60	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Are there any lines? I can't see. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, colleagues! Another budget we are looking at is a mechanical increase without complying with any policies. I will not dwell on all the things that my colleagues have mentioned before me in relation to maintaining the 50 per cent hospital treatment in relation to a lack of prevention that you say as a priority to be valued in this budget. I would like to address a single major issue, and this is child health, something that you say is your priority, and I would like to ask: what will the increased funds for children's healthcare be spent on? You will increase the volumes, that is, we will treat more children because stubbornly, Mr Minister, your Ministry refuses to introduce any new screening programs and because the budget in part of the programme is not taken as a priority in the figures, but only as a priority in the words. Or maybe you'll think about the real value of the trails. Since Mr. Ivanov said that 13 years has fallen in healthcare, and your three mandates, gentlemen of government who are approaching 12 years, what have you done for children's healthcare in them? You know, Minister, a neurological path in child health is 400 leva. And of them 350 leva. The children's hospital gives next door to Ivan Rilski for scanner or magnetic resonance? In the 21st century sick children are transported in cold and snow on the streets in carts to make the necessary examination in the next hospital, because Children's pediatrics, the Children's Pediatric Hospital does not have imaging equipment. And if you're gonna point out to me, Mr. Minister, the 30 million you're putting into the 2020 budget for a new children's hospital, and that makes it a priority in children's health care, please spare us. The way you started the procedure, and your idea of a new hospital, have been doomed since the beginning of failure. We still have at least a year left in our children's debt! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank all the Members of the National Health Insurance Fund who spoke today on the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and I deeply hope that these things that have been shared with us will find a material expression in correct, constructive, working proposals to look between first and second votes, because otherwise they would only remain as political speeches, which is not necessary at this tense moment. Dr. Jaffer, Professor Mihaylov, we have no difference in terms of prevention, early diagnosis, treatment in hospital care, continued treatment, treatment should be a priority. There's no difference in that. However, what I want to say is that we need to do this very carefully, because we are currently working under current legislation and a certain health insurance model. Any sharper movement would lead to chaos or confusion in the system. These results that you are talking about, I am convinced that we will achieve them when we apply the new health insurance model and make the relevant changes to the legislation that regulates healthcare. [[People coming into the room, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u64	Closer to the microphone, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues, please keep your seats down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u65	There were questions: why is 50% for hospital care or why 30% for medicines? At the same time, when reporting the draft budget of the National Health Insurance Fund [[noise]] And there are suggestions, say, for 30 or 40 new molecules, and we're considering that some molecule hasn't been tested yet. [[noise]] And it shouldn't come in as a cure...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u66	Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Colleagues, please take your seats and please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u67	Professor Mihailov, you remember last year when we talked about the new molecules and that not all of them have proven their effect, you in this plenary room of this tribune made me so worried that you might feel sick about not providing the money for medicines. At the same time, now you're telling me there's a lot of money for drugs. Another question was the hospital's money was 50%. Yeah, there's a lot of them. That's really how many there are with the acting model. And at the same time, they're calling either the manager or the chairman of the Supervisory Board, or I'm calling a lot of people in this room: please increase this hospital's limit for this month, by the end of the year. So we have to have principles when we defend a thesis. Many of the things you have spoken about and the questions you have asked about, you will see that proposals will be made for their resolution with the few laws that will enter the National Assembly at any moment, related to the basic health legislation. Others will be resolved in the National Framework Treaty, which is currently under way, together with the Bulgarian Medical Union. These are actions in terms of costing effectively, in terms of control, in terms of drug policy, in terms of remuneration in medical institutions. We will return to these questions when the draft laws are at your disposal, or we will introduce you to the Framework Treaty, which will operate from here on for three years. The duties to the other cases, Professor Mihailov. This year's budget allows us to pay off the other cases to which we owe the corresponding payments in a particularly large amount, which I now do not want to say, as the end of the year has not yet come. This gives us reason to release resources in 2020, which will go for the medical activities of our medical institutions. I think you know what I mean. That is, we will not abandon and increase the debt to other health insurance funds. On the contrary, this year we will pay off a significant amount of these obligations in advance so that this resource can be felt by the Bulgarian hospitals next year. Regarding transplants, yes, I said that at the end of 2020 or the beginning of 2021 we will make the first Bulgarian transplant by a team of exclusively Bulgarian doctors, but at the same time I firmly stated that we will use absolutely all possible measures, forms to do so earlier. What were they like? Using our colleagues from foreign transplant centers to help us and what has happened now at Lozenets Hospital, or the possibility, if there is no transplant centre to take on Bulgarian citizens within the European Union, to do so in other countries outside the European Union. That is, there is no contradiction between what I said and what is really happening. Next thing you know, subliminal activity. Overlimic activity currently has different case law. In some courts, they say that this preliminary activity should be paid off for 2015, 2016 and 2017, others say that it should not. This gave us reason to turn through the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council to the Supreme Court of Cassation, so that their General Assembly can adopt a position that applies practically to all cases. Otherwise, any amount of money we'd pay would mean... It's about unfinished business. Where there are already completed cases, we will pay them, there is no way. However, for unfinished cases there must be a solution of the VCC, as tomorrow we will also need the manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, and the chairman of the Supervisory Board, and the Minister of Health, to go around the courtrooms and prove why we paid that money. The good thing that will happen this year is that we will pay for all the work carried out in hospital care facilities. We will not leave an activity that will remain unpaid in 2019. And even if it remains a resource until the end of the year, we will do our best to pay part of the December activity, which is generally paid in January 2020. That is, we are looking again for a toolbox to create better conditions for the resource that will remain for next year to be the most effectively used. There is a great deal of abuse that in this budget we do not see the reforms that we all expect. Well, we can't see them and don't politicize that question. You know that even if we are ready as a government with draft regulations, we will watch them together with you in Parliament at least 6 months. Then we need to set up the appropriate organization, prepare the system so that it can work as early as 1 January 2021. There's no way they're going to be there, and you understand that very well. However, on the other hand, with these draft laws that we are putting in place at the National Assembly right now, you will see that we have practical measures that will show you that we are creating conditions for this process to really speed up and in 2020 to be able to create the whole organization in order to enter the change in the health insurance model and not only in it from 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u68	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Vote 208 MPs: 120 against 88, no abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with this the Bill at first reading. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u69	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because the proposed budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is a refusal to reform the system and preserve the current state of health care. The growth of personal payments of people, the share of which is currently the highest in European countries, will continue because of the preserved trend for financial understatement of outpatient medical care. [[Mister Kiril Ananiev is leaving the Chamber.]] Goodbye, Minister, you don't want to hear arguments! The medics will continue to leave the country, Mr. Minister! Regional disproportions in insurance with specialists and medical institutions will be strengthened, which will increase the inequality of the Bulgarians in access to health care. Budget 2020 for the NHIF will not solve the problem of dissatisfaction with low wages. To this day, they protested nurses, specialized doctors, working in municipal hospitals, but from tomorrow they will be joined by general practitioners, specialists from diagnostic consultative and medical centers, laboratories, those involved in school health and others. I am against the unbalanced health budget for 2020. It is an expression of expert weakness and dependence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Is there another negative vote? No, he has no desire to express himself that way. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SURVEY FOR 2020 Report of the Committee on Budgets and Finance. You have the floor, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u71	Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Director of the National Insurance Institute, Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Dragomir Draganov, Director of the Directorate of the National Insurance Institute, planning and forecasting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u72	We are voting on the motion for admission in this House. Vote 156 MPs: 147 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u73	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. At a meeting held on 7 November 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed the Draft Budget Bill of the State Social Security for 2020. The meeting was attended by: Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance; Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute; representatives of trade unions and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. He pointed out that the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2020 is based on the government's three-year government budget forecast for 2020 and the following policies are laid down in it: 1. Revenues: - The amount of the insurance contribution to the Fund shall be reserved for the Pensions and Fund for the persons under art. The amount of the insurance contributions for the other funds of the DEA and also the ratios between the insurers and the insured persons shall be maintained at the level of 2019. - No minimum social security benefits have been agreed for 2020. Without the imposition of an administrative increase in maximum insurance benefits when the minimum wage increased by 8.9 per cent, the average increase in minimum insurance income in 2020 was about 5.4 per cent. - The minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons of BGN 560 is increased. £610. - The minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 400 BGN. £610. - The maximum insurance income for all insured persons is preserved at 3000 BGN. - For 2020 no contributions to the Fund shall be paid to the Guaranteed claims of the employees. - Determined for revenue in the budget of the National Insurance Institute (NSI) 81 000 BGN. of the income of the Fund.. Guaranteed claims of employees....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 13 of the Law on guaranteed claims of employees in the event of insolvency of the employer. The total amount of revenue and transfers for 2020 from the consolidated budget for state social security is available at 12 455,7 million. lv. Or 696 million. lv. more than 2019 The total amount with the largest relative share is the income from insurance contributions, which is estimated at 8 054.7 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is more than 33.5 million. lv. From 2019 and transfers from the central budget to the DCI budget for the payment of pensions and allowances at the expense of the state budget of 178,3 million. BGN, or less than 119,3 million. lv. of their amount for 2019. An additional transfer from the state budget is envisaged to cover the deficit in the public security budget for 2020 amounting to 4 134,3 million. lv. or more by 200,2 million. lv. 2. Cost: - The required age and retirement insurance for workers under the conditions of third category of work and the minimum retirement age of the persons under art. Art. 69, Art. Art. 69a. 69b of the Social Security Code. The percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be maintained at the level of 1.2 per cent reached in 2019. From 1 July 2020, pensions granted until 31 December 2019 shall be increased by 6.7 per cent, as determined by art. 100 of the Social Security Code. The minimum amount of pension for retirement and age and social pension for old age as well as related pensions and supplements shall be increased from 1 July by 6.7 per cent. The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is maintained at BGN 1200. (40 per cent of the amount of the maximum insurance income for the same calendar year - 3,000 BGN for 2020). - The minimum daily amount of the compensation for unemployment is preserved - BGN 9,00 and the maximum daily amount - BGN 74,29. The period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is reserved for 410 days and the amount of the compensation for raising a child from one to two years of age is 380 BGN. And in 2020, the possibility introduced in 2017 for mothers (the adoptive parents) who have the right to take leave during pregnancy and childbirth until the age of one, but do not use it, return to work and receive compensation from the DEA of 50 per cent of their allowance for pregnancy and childbirth. - The mode of payment of the cash benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. The first three working days of temporary incapacity shall be paid by the insurance provider and from the fourth day of inactivity by the DEA. - Save the period, the income for which is taken into account when calculating the amounts of short-term benefits for temporary incapacity, 18 calendar months, and during pregnancy and childbirth and unemployment 24 months. - The amount of one-off aid in the death of an insured person is preserved. - A maximum amount of guaranteed claims is set for BGN 1525. The development of the Draft Consolidated Budget of State Social Security for Revenue and Expenditure for 2020 is also based on the expected implementation of the COA budget for 2019. The estimated surplus of the consolidated budget of the State Social Security for 2019 amounts to 153,9 million. lv. The total amount of expenditure and transfers for 2020 is 12 455.7 million. lv. and this amount is greater by 696 million. lv. from 2019. The most relative share is the cost of pensions of 10 577.7 million. BGN, which amounts to 85 percent of all expenditure in the State social security. The relative share of the cost of pensions from gross domestic product is 8.3 per cent, with the provision for pensions of 588 million. lv. more than their size in the 2019 COA budget Policies regarding the size of pensions for 2020: The percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be maintained at the level of 1.2 per cent reached in 2019. - From 1 July 2020, pensions granted until 31 December 2019, including, are increased by 6.7 per cent. - From 1 July 2020, the minimum pension for internship and age increases from 219.43 to 234.13 BGN. (an increase of 6.7 per cent). - From 1 July 2020 social pension for old age increased from 132.74 to 141.63 BGN. (an increase of 6.7 per cent). - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is maintained at the level of BGN 1200 reached in 2019. The above parameters and pensions policies have an impact on the number of pensioners and on the amounts of pensions that determine the cost of pensions for 2020. The average number of pensioners for 2020 is expected to decrease to around 2 137.8 thousand. The lower number of pensioners is determined by changes in the requirements for the acquisition of pension rights under the Social Security Code. The average pension amount of one pensioner in 2020 is expected to reach 412,28 BGN, with the nominal increase of 8.0 per cent in an estimated average amount for 2019. For 2019 it was BGN 381,74. A positive real pension growth of 5,8 percent is expected in 2020 with a projected annual average harmonised inflation rate of 2.1 per cent for 2020. The cost allocation for the main short-term CSR benefits groups is as follows: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborable workers - 632,8 million. lv.; compensations are planned for 18 234.1 thousand days with an average daily compensation of 34,70 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - compensations for accidents and occupational sickness - 12.7 million lv.; allowances are planned for 287,6 thousand days for temporary incapacity due to occupational accident and occupational disease in the case of average daily compensation of BGN 44,34.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth - 442,3 million lv.; allowances are planned for 13,898,8 thousand days for temporary incapacity due to pregnancy and childbirth in the case of average daily compensation of BGN 31,83.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for raising a child up to the age of two years - 187,7 million lv.The planned benefits for raising a child up to two years of age are 10 367,4 thousand days with an average daily benefit of 18,10 BGN. - benefits for adoption of a child up to the age of five - 2.4 million lv. - money benefits for unemployment - 438.3 million lv.The planned benefits are for 66 696 entitled persons on average for the year, with a monthly average amount of BGN 547.62.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 20.1 million lv. The planned costs for the operation of the Social Security are 131.1 million. lv. The relative share of activity costs compared to all expenditures of the State Social Security Budget Code for 2020 is 1.05 percent. The cost of staff is 75,6 million. lv. and developed in the average number of employees per employee (930) and service (2 537) relationships. The cost of administrative maintenance is 45.7 million. lv. For 2020, the project of capital expenditure funds is 9.1 million. lv. or increased by 1.5 million. lv. as compared to 2019 The consolidated budget of state social security for 2020 is expected to end with a zero budget balance. Under the budget lines of the different Funds for 2020 the results are as follows: - Fund "Pensions" and deficit of 3 918.4 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty - Fund - Pensions, non-employment-related, deficit of 0.02 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Fund "Employment accident and occupational disease" - Rest of 177,5 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - General disease and disability fund.49.9 million deficit. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - "Unemployment" fund "Lack of 94.9 million." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - a budget of the NSI - a remainder of 4 033.2 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • The total result of the Funds and the NSI budget shall be balanced to zero. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft are proposed amendments and additions to Part One of the Public Procurement Code relating to the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security, as well as amendments relating to the clarification of provisions on the rights of insured persons and editorial changes. A discussion was held on the bill in which the MPs and guests involved in the meeting expressed their views. The Chairman of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria - Vasil Velev - expressed in lack of support for the bill, as the administration of issues to be resolved in the course of the social partnership, in dialogue between employers and trade unions - the minimum wage, the existence of minimum insurance benefits; the lack of reform in medical and labour expertise; the preservation of the situation with hospital pay. He stressed that the merits of the 2020 DCI budget should also be noted, which are expressed in the fact that for the first time in more than ten years the subsidy from the State has been reduced to less than one third; the revenue is argued and ambitiously planned; the minimum and maximum amount of benefits for unemployed and for the second year of maternity are preserved. The Chairman of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria Plamen Dimitrov pointed out as a politically extremely positive sign that for another year the deficit in DVO is reduced, which is financed by the budget as the system's own revenues exceed 65% of its total costs. According to him, revenues in the DVO's 2020 budget have been underestimated by about 200 million. BGN, given the growth of income, fighting the gray economy, reducing the index of gray employment. In this regard, he made two proposals to increase the maximum pension of BGN 1350 and an automatic approach to the planning of the incomes and expenses of the DEA on the basis of the Swiss rule. Vasil Todorov from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce expressed lack of support for the bill due to the lack of equalisation of the cost of insurance between employers and employees, as at the moment the ratio is 60:40, as well as the lack of introduction of a personal contribution for civil servants. Retirement Union representative Georgi Rusanov said they do not support the budget, as the pension increase of 6.7 will be compensated with inflation growth. In addition, they want full insurance and age pensions to be recalculated according to pension income for 2015. People's representative Kalin Popovski from the group "United Patriarchs" was in favour of the Bill, as there is a good macrogram that grows compared to the previous year, as well as a decent percentage of additional funding from the state budget. People's representative Violeta Jeleva from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) said that the representatives of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) will not support the proposed bill by pointing out the following reasons: firstly, there is no vision for limiting negative demographic trends, reducing poverty; secondly, it is not enough to increase pensions by 6.7%; thirdly, they do not agree with the freezing of all other social payments. The proposed budget continues the trend of strengthening the lowest levels of poverty and inequality in the European Union. People's representative Dr. Hasan Ademov from the Parliamentary Group of "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" expressed lack of support to the bill because it remains unsolved one of the system problems of social security, namely all the funds of state insurance except one small fund "Trudy accident and professional illness" are deficited; the results of the reform that started in 2016 are not visible; on the one hand, reduce the dependence of the budget of the State budget by increasing the share of the contributions and the non-profit revenues, while on the other it is increasing by about 200 million. lv. the transfer from the state budget to the IPO budget. Which of the two things is true is the important question that needs to be clarified? After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held and the following results were received:......................... 13 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Budget for State Social Security for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. The bill was presented by the governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. The draft budget was reviewed and endorsed by the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute on 23 October 2019. On 30 October 2019 its discussion took place within the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Parameters of the draft general budget of state social security for 2020: 1. Basic social security indicators: - average annual number of insured persons 2 million. 796 thousand. And 3,000. and 300; - average social security income, to determine the percentage by art. 100 of the Code of Social Security 1 063 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - number of unemployed persons entitled to compensation 66 thousand. and 700; - average monthly number of pensioners 2 million. 137,000. And 800. 2. Revenue policies: - The amount of the contribution to the Fund shall be reserved for the Pensions and Fund for the persons under art. 69 of the State Social Security at the level of 2019. The amounts of insurance contributions for the other funds of the Ministry of Finance and the ratios between the insurers and the insured persons shall also be maintained. - For 2020 no minimum insurance benefits in economic activities and qualification groups of professions have been agreed. Without imposing an administrative increase in the minimum wage and with a planned increase in the minimum wage by 8.9 per cent, the average increase in the MOD in 2020 is about 5.4 per cent. - The minimum insurance income for self-insuring persons of BGN 560 is increased. £610. - The minimum insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers is increased from 400 BGN. £610. - The maximum insurance income for all insured persons is preserved at 3 000 BGN. - For the year 2020, no contributions shall be paid to the Fund of Guaranteed claims of employees and employees, while maintaining the provision of art. 22, para. 2 of the Law on the Guaranteed Claims of Workers and Employees in the Insolvency of the Employer (AGHR) on the maximum monthly amount of the guaranteed claim which cannot be less than 2,5 minimum wages. 3. Cost policies: - The required age and retirement insurance for workers under the conditions of third category of work and the minimum retirement age of the persons under art. Art. 69, Art. Art. 69a. 696 of the Social Security Code. - The percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be maintained at the level of 1.2 per cent reached in 2019. - From 1 July 2020, pensions granted until 31 December 2019 including increase by 6.7 per cent of the percentage determined under Article 100 of the Social Security Code. - The minimum amount of the pension for internship and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code and the amount of social pension for old age, as well as the amounts of related pensions and supplements, shall be increased by 1 July by the percentage determined under art. 100 of the Social Security Code. - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is maintained at 1,200 BGN. - The minimum and maximum daily amount of the unemployment allowance, respectively "BGN 9,00," and BGN 74,29 are preserved. - The period of payment of the money compensation for pregnancy and childbirth is reserved for 410 days and the amount of the compensation for raising a child up to two years of age is 380 BGN. - The mode of payment of the cash benefits for temporary incapacity under art. 40, para. The first three working days of temporary incapacity shall be paid by the insurance officer and from the fourth day of failure of the state social security; - A maximum amount of guaranteed claims is set for BGN 1 525. Revenue and expenditure on the Consolidated Draft State Social Security for 2020 By the end of the year, revenues, without transfers, are expected to be 7 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. And 300,000. lv. and the implementation of the plan to be 136 million. And 200,000. lv. more than 1.8 per cent. The costs, without the transfers, for 2019 are expected to be 11 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN 1,2% less than planned or 142 million. And 900,000. lv. economy. The expected transfers for 2019 amount to 4 billion. Ninety-nine million. BGN, which is 125 million. lv. less, according to the changes of §7, para. 1 and para. 4 of the Law on Persons with Disabilities. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. And 900,000. lv. 1. Revenue under the Consolidated Budget of State Social Security shall be as follows: - 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid The Commission therefore concludes - 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal - 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid 143 million. And 200,000. lv. as a project. The total amount of revenue and transfers received for 2020 is 12 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance 134 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. 2. The costs of the consolidated budget of state social security shall be: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated 752 million. under the State Budget Insurance Act. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial 448 million. lv. The total cost of pensions, short-term benefits, social security services and transfers made for 2020 is 12 billion. 455 million. BGN, including transfers of 7 million 400,000. BGN, of which 3 million And 150,000. lv. For the Ministry of Health, 4 million. lv. for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and 250 thousand. lv. for the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Expenditure on individual social security programmes. 1. The amount of assigned - under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code in 2020 the necessary retirement conditions for workers under the third category of work are 61 years and 6 months of age and 35 years and 10 months of service for women and 64 years and 3 months of completed age, and 38 years and 10 months of men's insurance service; - Art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Social Security Code in 2020 the age required for part-time retirement is 66 years and 6 months, in the case of 15 years of actual life insurance; - Art. 69, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5, 5a and 6 of the CSR in 2020 the conditions necessary for the retirement of the persons in the sector of Defence and Security are 53 years and 6 months of completed age and 27 years of insurance service for both sexes; - Art. 69b in 2020 the necessary conditions for the granting of an DE pension for persons who worked under the conditions of first and second categories of work which do not meet the conditions for retirement from a professional pension fund under art. 168 CSR or have changed their insurance under art. 4c of the Social Security Code are as follows: (a) work 10 years under the conditions of first category of work or 15 years under the conditions of second category of work; (b) 49 years of age and 4 months of age for women and 53 years and 6 months for men working under the first category of work and 54 years and 4 months for women and 58 years and 6 months for men working under the second category of work. The policies regarding the amounts of pensions for 2020 are as follows: - The percentage for each year of insurance service in the pension formula shall be maintained at the level of 1.2 per cent reached in 2019. - From 1 July 2020, pensions granted until 31 December 2019 including increase by 6.7 per cent of the percentage determined under Article 100 of the Social Security Code. - From 1 July 2020, the minimum pension for internship and age increases from 219.43 to 234.13 BGN. An increase of 6.7 per cent). - From 1 July 2020 social pension for old age increased from 132.74 to 141.63 BGN. An increase of 6.7 per cent). - The maximum amount of one or more pensions received is maintained at the level of 1,200 BGN reached in 2019. The average number of pensioners for 2020 is expected to decrease to around 2 million. 137,000. And 800. The smaller number of pensioners is determined by changes in the requirements for the acquisition of pension rights according to the CSR. The average pension amount of a pensioner in 2020 is set to reach 412,28 BGN. the nominal increase is 8,0 percent for the expected average size for 2019. BGN 381,74 A positive real pension growth of 5.8 percent is expected in 2020, with projected annual average harmonised inflation of 2.1 percent for 2020. The gross income replacement rate for 2020 is expected to be 38,8 per cent and the net coefficient is expected to be 50 per cent. The planned pension costs for 2020 are 10 billion. 576 million. This amount includes the cost of pensions from the DEA and the state budget, as well as the supplements to the pensions of war veterans, supplements to pensions of repressed persons and others. The provision for pensions is EUR 729 million. And £00,000. lv. or 7.4 per cent more pension funds than expected pension expenditure on the basis of the July 2019 report. The pension expenditure in 2020 is expected to be around 8.3 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product for the same year. 2. Financial benefits and aid For 2020, the total cost of monetary benefits and aid amounts to 1,739,3 million. BGN, which is 6.2 per cent more than expected execution on July 2019. The costs of the main short-term benefits and CSR monetary assistance groups are: - temporary disability benefits due to a general illness, the care of a sick family member and quarantine and non-laborable workers - 632,8 million. lv. Benefits are planned for 18 234.1 thousand days with an average daily compensation of 34.70 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - benefits for occupational accident and occupational disease; - benefits for pregnancy and childbirth; - benefits for raising a child up to two years of age; - benefits for adoption of a child up to the age of five; - monetary benefits for unemployment; - financing of the prevention and rehabilitation activities - 20.1 million lv. 3. Social insurance activity The planned costs for the operation of the Social Security are 131.1 million. lv. The relative share of activity costs for all expenditures of the Consolidated Budget of State Social Security for 2020 is 1.05 percent. 4. Results on the draft budgets of the individual funds of the State Social Security for 2020 Under the budget lines of the different Funds for 2020 the results are as follows: - Fund of Pensions...a shortage of 3 918.4 million. lv. - Fund of Pensions for the persons under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) - Fund of Pensions, non-employment-related deficit of 0.02 million. lv. - Trudy accident and occupational disease fund - Residue of 177,5 million lv. - Total disease and disability fund - shortage of 49.9 million lv. - "Unemployment" fund "Lack of 94.9 million." lv. - NSI budget - A remainder of 4 033.2 million. lv. The total result of the Funds and the NSI budget shall be balanced to zero. According to the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, the draft budget of state social security is pragmatic, feasible, predictable and does not carry any additional financial and economic risks. It is an expression of consistent efforts at the same time to strengthen the financial stability of state social security and to improve the social protection of insured persons and pensioners. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy received opinions from trade unions and employers' organisations. After the presentation of the Draft Budget Bill of State Social Security, a discussion took place, which included Plamen Dimitrov, President of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, Vasil Velev, Chairman of the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, Vasil Todorov from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Georgi Rusanov from the Union of Pensioners. People's representatives Kalin Popovski took part in the discussion of the draft budget, who said that the group of "United Patriarchs" at first reading will support the budget of state social security because of the good macrogram that grows compared to last year; Violeta Jeleva, who said that the draft budget of state social security for 2020 lacks any commitments and policies aimed at dealing with some problems. These problems are: limiting negative demographic trends, reducing population numbers, increasing incomes through employment and higher labour productivity, a stable pension system and increasing pensioners' incomes, sustainable growth of incomes and raising living standards, reducing poverty; Pavel Shopov, who announced that lawmakers from With this act will be saved many millions that can be spent for better social policy; Hasan Ademov paid attention to the fact that some 3,500 people work in the NSI who administer 12 and a half billion leva. These employees must be stimulated by a higher than 10% increase in wages. Dr. Ademov said that a parliamentary group of DPS will not support the budget of state social security because the proposed draft law on the budget of state social security will not solve any of the problems of social security from the systemic problems of social policy. Another reason for the lack of support is the fact that all the funds of state social security, with the exception of a small Fund - Labour accident and professional illness - have a deficit. Next, there are no visible results from the reform that started in early 2016. For example, as a result of this reform, the average annual reduction in the number of pensioners expected next year when it comes to retirement pensions is around 7000 and the total number of new pensioners is about 12 thousand. Another weakness of the draft budget is that, on the one hand, the share of social contributions and non-tax revenue increases, on the other hand, the transfer to the insurance system. In addition, the serious increase in the incomes from insurance contributions of about 580 million and the increase in costs of 730 million do not have an effect on the average amount of pensions, which is about 30 BGN, with the minimum pension the growth is 14 BGN and the social pension for old age grows by 8 BGN. Dr. Ademov also addressed the problem of debalance of the principle of solidarity between the different groups of insured persons. For example, he referred to the groups of farmers and insured persons in the sector. At the end of the discussion and the 11 votes for the poll, 8 votes against the vote, and 1 vote abstention, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to support the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u76	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Following is a Report of the Commission on the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u77	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the Budget of the State Social Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. At a regular meeting held on 7 November 2019, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft Budget Bill of the State Social Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Plamen Rusev, Head of the Department of State and Finance, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Brigadier General Krasimir Stanchev, Head of the National Security Service, Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Chairman of the State Agency of Research, Mr. Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Commission on Information Security, Mr. Biser Borisov, Deputy Chairman of the State Agency of Technical Operations, and Colonel Velko Atanasov. The draft budget for the state social security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." He examined in detail the two provisions in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill, which make amendments concerning the activities of the National Security Service. The first relates to the so-called transfer of rights acquired in another Member State of the European Union by persons who, under the legislation in force, are not insured for an additional pension in a universal fund and concern employees of the security services. In this regard, § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions is amended art. Art. 343c and Art. 343c 343 of the Social Security Code. The second change concerns the age limit for the service of the National Security Service sergeants, which has been increasing to 55 for 53 years. It is contained in § 6 of the Law, which changes art. 116, para. 1 t. 3, b. The National Security Service Act. The proposed changes were supported by Brigadier General Krassimir Stanchev. The head of the National Security Service as well as representatives of the other security services. During the discussion of the Bill, the question of the limit age of service in the security services is addressed. Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, explained the need to increase the age of service in the State Agency from 60 to 63 years old, which will align the age of service under the State Agency Act with that under the State Agency Act. During the discussion, the MPs expressed an opinion in support of the Bill and the proposed increase in the age limit for service in the State Agency. As a result of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Commission with 4 votes for the European Parliament, 3 votes against the European Parliament and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Budget for the State Social Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. There will be no importer's opinion. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Gokov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u79	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The Law on the Budget of State Social Security shows the philosophy and policy of the managers in the social and social sphere and to what extent the government and the majority that supports it are implementing the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which defines us as...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The budget of state social security for 2020 and the lack of substantial changes do not meet the expectations of society for justice in ensuring and satisfying insurance benefits. It does not offer any new policies, measures, solutions and we can define it with very little exception as a repeat or as it is modern to say the previous budgets from Borisov's management for 10 years. There is nothing new, no new policy leading to social reform or at least a change in direction improvement. The budget of state social security for 2020 rejects any possibility of social development in an ascending aspect and takes us completely away from the understanding of a social state. It does not solve the problems of state social security over the years and does not improve the adequacy of social payments. Confirms the implementation of harmful neoliberal policy, which is at the bottom of all our problems, including in the social sphere, and at a time when the whole of Europe is questioning this neoliberal approach. In the 2020 budget continues the trend imposed in the management of GERB to underestimate revenues and their growth, despite the constant talk about raising the collection of insurance and tax contributions. To call it a social state Bulgaria, it is important to have adequate solutions in the social sphere and adequate social protection both in the state budget and in the budgets of state social security and the Health Insurance Fund. Unfortunately, there are none. It is noted that no changes in the approach to pensions and maternity, hospital and other social security payments are envisaged. It is apparent that, once again, there are no changes in revenue policies or expenditure policies. I do not deny that there has been an increase in income in recent years, but is the pace sufficient because we must also note the lack of any significant and tangible improvement in the well-being of the Bulgarians?! On the contrary, the rich are getting richer, the poor are getting poorer. According to statistics in Bulgaria in just one year there are 90 new Bulgarians with deposits over 1 million. lv. And the millionaires are now 916. That is, out of every 7,500 Bulgarians, one is a millionaire, but on the other hand, 3500 are extremely poor or at risk of poverty. The characteristic of our society is: increasing poverty and inequality, inefficient health care, high mortality and the lowest life expectancy. This budget confirms it, perhaps even worsens it, although Bulgaria's social system is under increasing pressure to modernise and achieve a high degree of justice, although everyone in this House realizes what a huge problem and challenge the social system remains the deepening poverty and inequality. The funds for state social security in 2020 have been increased. Another is the question of what this is due to and adequate enough and adequate to the expectations of this increase, will it contribute to the positive development of the social sphere. The deficit in the Fund is not growing, but all of this, we need to be aware that it is temporary and is due to the favorable state of the economy. This is a timid indicator for improving the financial stability of the Fund, but again raises the question: whose account is this financial stability? And the answer is: at the expense of the most vulnerable groups in the population and their deprivation of rights, at the expense of inadequate and miserable pensions of our mothers and fathers. The burden of each year's insurance service and the pension formula will again remain 1.2% next year, although promises were to take higher account of the insurance contribution and this burden to reach 1.5%. With 6.7% will be the increase in pensions, and not until 1 July 2020, when inflation will have eaten it twice already. The minimum pension will rise by 14 leva. and it will become BGN 234, social for old age will rise by 9 leva. and it will become BGN 141, and the average will reach BGN 412. I am not reporting to you any pension statistics in any third world country, but to a European Bulgaria member of the European Union, where the average and minimum pensions and salaries are far higher and adequate than we are. From 1 January 2020, the poverty line will become BGN 363, i.e. the minimum pension is below the poverty line with BGN 130. and by no means will it perform its function of social protection and dignity, but will generate poverty. The average pension after its possible 30th leva increase, notice, from July 1st next year, will again be comparable and dangerously close to the poverty line in the country. There will be no change in the standard of people who rely only on pension. There is no way, with the projected 6.7 per cent increase in pensions, and not until the middle of next year, to compensate for inflation and sufficient for 2 million and 150,000 Bulgarian pensioners to live at least as they lived in 2019. This is extremely unacceptable not only for the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.It is extremely unacceptable for the Bulgarian society as a whole. State social security is a form of organised material protection of workers and persons insured in the event of loss of income. This protection must be, but it is not adequate in both the amount of replacement income and the duration of their receipt. From the left, we insist that these symbolic 6.7% are extremely insufficient and do not solve the problem of increasing differences between old and new pensions. Injustice and conflict between generations are created and the differences between the lowest and highest pensions continue to grow, and the number of pensioners who receive pensions below the poverty line is growing. Most of the incomes of most adult Bulgarians come from social insurance from pensions. According to my estimate, 90% have no income other than pension. The social security system must be organised in such a way as to ensure the stability and security of the incomes of future pensioners, who are today active participants in the insurance process. Is this going to happen with this budget? I don't think so. Today's pensioners are that generation that Bulgaria was building, along with this he was responsible for paying insurance, in size greater than today's, in order to provide the pensions of the then pensioners. For 20 years, however, there has been delays in some cases, in times of the size of the old pensions compared to those newly granted with an equal contribution to the social security system and all because the principles in the insurance legislation and in the policies for updating and indexing pensions and in particular the pensions allocated before 2002 have been violated. This has led to the lag of pension income from the growth of economic development, the growth of the annual social security income and in general from the vital level in the country. During the entire mandate 2005 - 2009 the triple coalition took adequate action to update pensions, including recalculation, which, if continued in the same direction, would now be considerably better. Unfortunately, the next government and all the following for ten years, all of Borisov, with its chaotic policies regarding the real update of the old pensions and bringing them to the current or close to it insurance base, led to this serious lag. The systematic neglect of BSP's proposals for recalculation of pensions is in line with the other inadequate actions of the government. Needless to say, when providing our alternative budget for state social security, we will again propose recalculation of all pensions, taking into account the personal contribution of each of the pensioners. And you have to accept it, because we're already late, and if we don't do it now, there won't be any tomorrow, and it'll cost a lot of money. Another thing - 27 thousand pensioners who take the maximum amount of the pension 1200 BGN, limited by the so-called pension ceiling, will not actually receive a penny increase, as with other pensioners, because the maximum insurance income remains frozen at 300 BGN, and these people will continue to be an example of how they lose confidence in the insurance system. And the frozen amount of the maximum social security income benefits those with higher incomes and does not create the opportunity to accumulate more quality insurance rights, but the insurance system more funds. The minimum wage from next year will be BGN 610. and that would also be the size of most minimum insurance thresholds. Although the increase is again mechanically based on bargaining and not on a mechanism based on socio-economic logic, this means more revenue in state social security. After several unsuccessful attempts now again attempt to raise the minimum threshold from 400 to 610 BGN. for farmers and tobacco producers. The reasons for this are clear, but this is an unacceptable 52% increase and raises the question, although by increasing the social security income, we will not guarantee them pensions other than the current ones. There is no change in the unemployment rate, which remains minimum 9 BGN per day and maximum 74. It is good at least that the workers get away with the possibility that the first days of paying the hospital are at their expense. That is, no one will pay them, and for now the first three days will be paid by the employer and then the National Insurance Institute. And next year there is no joy for the mothers who will raise their children from one to two years, because the compensation will again be as much as this year was. Although there is an increase in wages and insurance in absolute value, nothing that there is inflation, but they have become accustomed to such an attitude because the freezing of insurance and social payments is a trademark of the governments of Borisov. The claims of the employers' organisations and part of the right-wing politicians that the freezing of unemployment benefits, maternity benefits and so on is a good thing, because in this crisis in the labour market people should not be motivated to stay unemployed or in paid leave, borders on cynicism and shows complete ignorance of the processes of the labour market. The minimum wage is growing, the average wage is growing, and even while maintaining the percentage of imported insurance there is an increase in the amount of insurance payments. Therefore, it is unacceptable for the freezing of payment for maternity, unemployment or any other social security event because, because of inflation and the appreciation of life, this freezing in practice means reducing those payments. In general, we are once again witnessing a discrepancy with public attitudes and expectations on a number of issues related to the sustainable growth of employment income and pensions. That is why my estimate of this budget is weak. Take out the pencil and record the proposals of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the parliamentary group [[crowd cheers and lines: "Eee!"]] so that we can be ashamed of the Bulgarians who depend entirely on insurance payments. We will not support the budget for state social security for 2020 and it is not funny at all that you do not listen to what you are being spoken to is simply tragic. Think of those people who rely on you as MPs and have put their trust in you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? Mrs. Angelova, come in for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I listened very carefully to your speech. We've heard these stories other times when we discussed the state social security budget in previous years, but I was impressed with one of your sentences, so I took the liberty of taking the floor for a line. You said that if, in the following year, we do not comply with your decision, which you will clearly submit between first and second readings to recalculate pensions, you are probably referring to the recalculation of pensions that were granted by 31 December 2016 with the average monthly social security income for 2015, because such a proposal you had as a separate bill this year, that if we did not comply with this proposal now, it would be expensive after a while. I was very impressed with those words. Now, Mr. Gokov, my question to you is: will this recalculation of pensions be cheap? Do you know the estimate for recalculating pensions with medium-term income for 2015 how much it will cost for state social security, namely for 2020 it is 1 billion. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. BGN, for 2021 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with 900 million. lv.? Is this the cheap one, Mr. Gokov, and whose account will this increase be?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Is there a second line? I won't. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you say you have listened to me carefully. You didn't listen very carefully, otherwise you'd understand what this was about. You say you've listened to this thing many times. If you had listened carefully, you would have noticed that several times in my exhibition I said that we are consistent and offer adequate solutions for solving the problems in the pension and social security system. However, you stubbornly or otherwise do not accept these proposals of ours even partially. I do not see there are many of the things that can be done without having a problem in doing so without disturbing the stability of the financial system, in the sense of the insurance system, or at least not to the extent that you apocalyptically present it, but no, you do not accept one of our decisions. Look, I'll tell you that we're talking about recalculating pensions not just now with this budget. We have done it as a party 2007. Can you imagine the hall here and make an account if it hadn't been recalculated then pensions, what would be their level now? Can you imagine if, for example, Finance Minister Simeon Djankov had respected the law, the Bulgarian law, the Social Security Code, art. 100, and he had indexed pensions for four years of management, come on, three years of GERB management, how much percentage did pensioners deprive of an increase in pensions? So now I'm telling you, it's going to be an increasingly expensive decision, putting it off every year. If he had then increased them adequately and, as the Law said, we would now want a less increase. Now, the categories of cheap and expensive are very relative for one is expensive, for another is cheap. I am not going to tell you the Bulgarian saying: "Eutini of flour and expensive of bran." Something like that. We're throwing money at projects that have an unknown effect, and I'm sorry to repeat it again, but for example, the renovation of private buildings is being thrown millions there, and at the same time we keep the people of a semi-uniter on the edge of survival in the pension system. Perhaps you will receive an accurate estimate of our alternative proposals... which pensions we propose to increase, how much it will cost, where will the money come from and where will that money go? And most importantly, we are not going to increase the minimum pension, which leads to an imbalance in the entire pension system, but we are proposing an increase in all pensions, recalculation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u84	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u85	So, by the way, the whole society in Bulgaria is starting to talk about recalculating pensions. You and Mr. Minister will have to do it sooner or later. There is no way you can keep people at a million and a half Bulgarians below the poverty line. You are officially admitting that there is a poverty threshold in Bulgaria and that these people are standing below this threshold. That's not gonna happen. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It must be very clear to everyone that the United Patriarchs, as was the coalition, while the party "Attack" was at odds with the Rules, the laws of the country, the Constitution and the Election Law, excluded from this coalition, came into power. It was with several main messages and the most important of them was for decisive raising of the income of Bulgarian citizens. We're talking about pensions here. In other words, in cities and villages in the entire election campaign we talked about 300 leva. minimum pension. And we from Ataka, although we stand elsewhere, although we are far from the Deputy Prime Minister who is responsible for social affairs, including the amount of pensions of Bulgarian citizens, have not forgotten what we talked about. We are now making a third budget of this mandate and the increase took place with about 22% of what we promised. Up to 300 leva. There are some roughly estimated BGN 80 that need to be made up. We have taken part in the power of Ataka, we have entered the power to make a few good and important things for the Bulgarians. We are highly hesitant, worried and worried that in the third year one of these things is still in the initial form of change, that is, this increase, which took place the first year of the term, with about 22% of the minimum pensions. We are aware that this budget is monetary, and this budget is restrictive, under the influence of what the International Monetary Fund dictates, which is an absolute anomaly - a country of the European Union 2019 - 2020 - to continue to be on a currency board, but there are still some tolerance and some opportunities for this with the miserable pensions of Bulgarian citizens to change, that is still within our competence. The issue is insubordination to some extent to this general measure which has been given to us and in which we are found by foreign financial institutions. In this regard, I would recommend for the next, last, fourth budget, which will be prepared and now we have to say it, because this will not take place clearly in 2020, is to consider not indexing what the BSP is talking about. No, BSP colleagues, don't talk about indexing pensions, talk about radical, big, legal change based on philosophy, logic. You, as a systemic party, tend to make changes a little more for the good or a little more for the worse. We are talking here, we are talking from Ataka. We are talking about radical transformation, radical raising of pensions and hence all the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. This is not allowed by the International Monetary Fund, so-called international financial institution, but we as Bulgarian MPs should have the will to tap on the table and finally say: this should happen, this should take place. I will point you both to opposition, to government, and to Minister of Finance, and to the Minister of Finance, a reserve. This reserve is the fiscal reserve, which stands for billions of dollars, no one can say how much it is at the moment. There was a talk once about $6 billion. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I'll be done in a minute. Billions, yes! Who stand without interest! I'd say, without interest, she's so symbolic!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u88	Dear Mr. Shopov, please finish your thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u89	So that's where the privatization money went in this one, that's what it was called, the Silver Fund. It is designed precisely for raising pensions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Finish your thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u91	This is an opportunity to attract this money and radically change the amount of pensions, otherwise we will all fail.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u92	- What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov, Mrs. Karaivanova, Mr. Draganov! However, let us return to the budget of the state social security that we are looking at today. I would immediately like to point out that we should thank our colleagues from Mr. Ivanov's team once again, from the team of the National Insurance Institute, who have presented to our attention a highly professional and expertly prepared budget, with all the additional arguments that support facts and evidence that support the proposed Draft. In a few words, how can the proposed budget of state social security be characterised for next year? First of all, we believe that this is a calm inertial budget that is easily implemented, which unfortunately does not offer new policies, offers no new solutions, solves none of the problems of the social security system. What do I mean? First of all, all funds of state social security continue to be in deficit conditions, with the exception of a small fund - Labour accident and occupational disease. Next, the scissors between the so-called old pensions and new pensions continue to dissolve and there are no policies in the proposed budget to narrow this gap between pensions that have been allocated under the same conditions, only that they have been granted in different years because the insurance income during the retirement year is necessarily higher. Next, they are not, unfortunately, visible results of the reform that was adopted in 2015. What do I mean? Despite making efforts to offer a chronograph for increasing age and retirement internship, the average monthly number of pensioners is proposed to be reduced by only seven thousand next year. Notice, at 2 million 137 thousand and 800 an average monthly number of pensioners in Bulgaria, in the fifth year after the reform only 7 thousand fewer pensioners, when we talk about pensions for retirement and age. Next, there is no progress in the reform of medical expertise, not to mention labour expertise. It is difficult to find agreement between the social partners, between the associations of people with disabilities, but on this topic I will speak a little later. I will also speak on this subject a little later. Let's take a look at the macroframe of the budget. Rejoicing is the tendency to reduce the dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget. In the following year 65,4% of the revenues are at the expense of social security contributions and non-tax revenue, which highlights the growing income of social security contributions, i.e. the model is becoming more secure than it has been before. But I'd like to point out another circumstance at once. Despite the fact that the income from social security contributions and non-tax revenue is now 65.4%, it is not declining, on the contrary, next year an increase in the transfer from the state budget to the state social security budget by 200 million is proposed. lv. On the one hand, social security contributions and social security revenues, i.e. the seizure by insured persons is increasing, on the other hand, the transfer, which is at the expense of taxes from the state budget to the state social security budget, is increasing. There must be answers to all these questions here. Regarding the revenue section, a few words. For 2020, revenues without transfers increased by 615 million. lv. The proposal is for an increase of 615 million. BGN, adding non-tax revenues, the revenue part of the budget of state social security increased by 700 million. lv. This is a very ambitious goal. Let us hope that it will be implemented, but nevertheless we believe that once again the revenues in the budget of state social security are underestimated. Why do we think that? Last year of this tribune, when we discussed the state social security budget, we said the revenues were underestimated by at least 150 million. lv. What we see now as a revenue report by the end of September, the increase is slightly over 136 million. BGN, which means that the revenue side and now we think it is underestimated. The increase in teachers' salaries by nearly 20%, the increase in salaries in the budget sphere by 10%, an increase in the number of employed by 2000 will become a little later issue, the increase in gross domestic product growth by 3.3%, the average monthly growth of the employed, more by about 2,000, as I said just now. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister says that every month we open factories, every month we open businesses. This means that in these enterprises someone has to work, and not just two thousand people on an average monthly basis to increase the number of employees. I mean, we have a certain reserve here, too, so I'm saying that we think the revenues in the state social security budget are underestimated. In terms of spending policies. Compared to the implementation of the costs for 2019 the growth is with the impressive, notice, nearly 730 million. lv. How is this model of pension insurance developed, of social insurance in Bulgaria, given that it was adopted with a decent level of consensus in 1990? This system as a kind of sponge, as a kind of sponge takes on enormous costs. Unfortunately, the efficiency of these costs at the system's exit is not at the expected level, revenues increased by 730 million. BGN, and see what happens to expenses. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. the increase in the average pension is 30.54 BGN.! The increase of the minimum pension for internship and age is BGN 14,70, the social pension for old age by BGN 8.89. That is, minimum levels of pension protection, social protection instead of guaranteeing a normal existence, guarantee misery, generate poverty and the possibility of social exclusion. That is the big question we need to think about! Not only what our fellow Members in the United Patriarchs promised, we do not see it as a performance now. There's no 300 leva. a minimum pension for retirement and age, but even those levels with which we increase the average pension are still unsatisfactory, and I repeat, despite the impressive 730 million. lv. more costs in the pension system. A few words about how pensions can be increased. According to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in order to rely on a significant increase in pensions, there must be high levels of employment, on the one hand, and employment in high-end economic activities, in high-tech activities. Next, there must be high salaries, there must be high incomes, there must be serious, real, and not part of the income to go into the gray sector, revenues in the public funds, in order to rely on relatively high levels of social protection, on high levels of pensions. Of course, there is another slightly eccentric way of thinking about it. Other tools are possible, such as the translation of all pensions, which the colleagues from BSP talk about in Bulgaria. These are expensive instruments, they are possible, but for them solidarity should be sought, as between generations, solidarity between all insured persons, so that this decision can be reached. The other instrument for which the colleagues of the United Patriarchs are now talking in the new proposal of the Old People's Law is to structure a fund that can finance minimum pensions for internship and age up to the amount of the poverty line, the amount of which is BGN 363 next year. Next, I would like to say a few words about what this 730 million actually covers. lv. Dear colleagues, what we have adopted with the budget of state social security for 2019. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. for the year-round payment of the amount of increased pensions in 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. This increase, which is proposed for the following year by 6.7%, is practically 360 million. lv. of those extra incomes I was talking about. Here, with the two measures alone: 5.7% increase, updated this year, year-round repayment in the following year and this increase of 6.7% in 2020 is practically eating up the increase in revenues in the insurance system. Dear colleagues, 8.34%, we say, of gross domestic product is money that is for social security. What do I mean? 12 billion. 455 million. lv. is expenditure in the budget of state social security. Of which, 10 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are You can answer the question yourself: is this money enough, should we cross the psychological limit of 10% gross domestic product allocated to pensions or shouldn't we? What price do we have to pay for this at these levels of employment, for these incomes, for these receipts in the insurance system? All these questions are waiting for their answers in the coming years. A few words, honourable Members, about the storyline of disability pensions, up-to-date in recent days. Dear colleagues of the United People, I remember very well that in 2017 you of this tribune and in your election promises have spoken about the fact that you will review all the disability pensions, you will do so that you will save millions of them so as not to say billions with which to increase the disability pensions. As a result of your efforts over the last three years, see what the results are. If 1 billion are allocated to disability pensions in 2017. 400 million. lv. from the state social security budget, in 2019 they are already 1 billion. 800 million. BGN and next year it is proposed to be 1 billion. 900 million. lv. This is written in the draft budget of state social security. Thank you for what you have done to people with disability pensions already receive a slightly more serious income! And the last thing I want to do is finish my speech, and I see we're progressing with time...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u94	Zoom in?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u95	Colleagues, discussing a budget of state social security, without affecting the flexible topic of minimum insurance benefits of registered farmers and tobacco producers, as if it could not pass. I would therefore like to say the following on this point: 88 161 are those registered in 2019 from the Register of the Ministry of Agriculture. Anyone who wants to do that can check it out. These are registered farmers, with another 5076 registered tobacco producers. From them at 400 leva. minimum insurance income, notice, is provided only 36 000 farmers, one part of them being provided for all insurance risks, another part, most of them being provided only for the Fund. Dear colleagues, the big problem is not that these farmers and tobacco producers do not want to pay insurance contributions in order to make an adequate contribution in terms of insurance contributions, insurance payments. Even at £610. Their individual pension ratio is about 0,5%. They still can't cover that 324 leva. minimum pension. However, when we focus and focus on the issue of farmers, we bring it up as a topic that undermines solidarity between insured persons, between generations. We need to pay attention to each other's fund. 69 in the sector of Security. Colleagues, there's a down payment of 60.8%. At 60.8% in the revenue section, in the part of this fund of the sector, I have nothing against this sector, they are the people who guarantee national security, but the deficit in them is 147 million. $700,000. lv. for next year. So when we talk about seeking solidarity and justice, we must not oppose one of the other funds. We must not oppose, but look for opportunities to solve these people's problems. I would like to say a few words about supporting the structures of the National Insurance Institute. Colleagues, 3467 workers, the majority in service, the smaller one in employment, in the system of the National Insurance Institute administer the spending of 12 billion. 500 million. lv. $75 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. That's 1,05% of the maintenance costs. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the MPs to make a proposal between first and second readings, to increase this amount for the people who make it possible for our pensioners to receive even this amount of pensions that is currently in place. Finally, I want to take this opportunity that yesterday was Social Security Day, to congratulate everyone working in this area and wish them well! To be stubborn in pursuing their goals and let Saint Mina protect them and their families! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing a law on the State Social Security Budget Act, which in its pension section, pensioners, concerns 2 million. $150,000. Bulgarians. These people must have different party, political beliefs and addictions, and that's normal. The common thing between them is that they worked 20, 30, more years each, i.e. they contributed to the construction of Bulgaria's economy and their social security contribution in Bulgaria's social security system. The common thing between them is that almost all of them today live hard with the amount of pensions we provide them, even through the Law on the Budget of the DVO. In the paradoxical situation, we are the government to determine a poverty threshold of BGN 363. for next year, and the same government to determine minimum pension for internship and age of 234 BGN. Think about what that means. The government says, "You can't live on incomes below BGN 363. It's just impossible. Daily medicines, costs, electricity, water and so on, can't. And at the same time he tells these people: "Well, okay, but you have to do it with BGN 234. You can't live like this, but you'll have to live like this. Do you understand the contradiction and paradoxical situation in which we are living? Because we can spend all day and all night throwing numbers, actuarial estimates, consolidated fiscal framework and so on. Human to explain to people how at this poverty threshold to live with these pensions. And now, is there a way out of this situation? Of course, Mr. Ademov is right: the long-term vision of exiting jobs, high incomes, high social security contributions, but this requires years of efforts to ensure economic growth, new jobs and high incomes, and collection of income from insurance. I mean, fighting the gray sector. This may take years, and the elderly now, today, need this update. One doesn't interfere with the other. Let us try to ensure this economic growth, jobs, but take action now. What do we offer from Coalition BSP for Bulgaria for years? Recalculating all pensions with a new average monthly social security income. We can sit down and talk about what year it will be for 2013, for 2015, for 2016, but it is imperative to recalculate pensions. There's no way out, people! There's no way out for them. For us there is, we'll find a way to do it. The question was raised about funds to guarantee in any way the pension system, new ones or the Silver Fund issue. I want to open the topic of the Silver Fund because this is one of the opportunities to guarantee the pension system, not to allow a collapse in the pension system, to cover deficits to certain quantities and so on. Dear colleagues in today's National Assembly, the Silver Fund was established in 2007 by a BSP government. The aim was to include contributions from concession fees, privatization fees received in the privatisation of enterprises and surpluses in the budget. What happened in ten years your management? The fund then started with nearly 2.5 billion. Today, the Ministry of Finance, that is, not today, a month ago, reported that the Fund has 3 billion and 67 million. In ten years, half a billion has entered the Fund, when it was forecasted to be created a financially read-out, reasoned and smart forecast, there had to be between 10 billion and 15 billion in the Fund today. BGN, and there's 3 billion. Could these 10.15 billion help the pension system, and now we can't guess where the money is coming from? They could have! Why didn't it happen? Because, honourable rulers, you have severely violated all the laws of Bulgaria for these ten years in the following ways. More Simeon Djankov, in order to avoid the government's legal obligation to deposit the money from privatisation in the Silver Fund, took out state companies in the so-called Consolidated Company and all sales revenues imported them into the state budget as a dividend instead of the Silver Pension Fund. You continued in the following years: for 2016 Borisov's government reported 1 billion and 470 million surplus; for 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. "2 billion and 800 million surpluses under the consolidated framework. Instead of this surplus to enter the Silver Fund, as the Law obliges you, a month before the end of the year, Prime Minister Borisov gives it by decree of the Council of Ministers, outside all the budget procedures of parliament. Handing it out single-handed, as we have already talked a lot, with the SUV, through the window for party political purposes and does not implement the Act.. The surplus of the budget to enter the Silver Fund, where to build up to support the pension system. And now you explain: "Ama there is no way, but it is very expensive, but where is the money from here?" Here is the money, on one condition that you comply with the laws of Bulgaria which charge you concession fees, privatization funds and the surplus of the budget to go for pensioners. In this regard, we ask once again: why again the money from the concession at Sofia Airport, which we have repeatedly declared against, 480 million does not go to the Silver Fund, but goes to cover BDZ debts? Why?! Change the law if you don't want to go to the Silver Fund. It's a bad situation to go out and tell people that we're going to eliminate the Silver Fund because that money we're going to put into the general government budget to cover debts so we can spend it promiscuously. It's not good, is it? Just quietly, the law works, you don't do it. Here's where the funds come from. One option, of course. That's not the only one. In relation to everything that we have talked about for more than an hour with our colleagues from BSP about Bulgaria and between first and second readings we will submit it to us............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is also a question of justice to the elderly, who have contributed to the construction of Bulgaria, to the existence and stability of the insurance system, and today live miserablely. It is not simply expensive to help them, it is fair to resolve this issue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, the pension debate is always about a lot of emotions. The system is loaded with a lot of expectations. We all want people to get higher incomes, especially for our mothers and fathers, but one thing is the wishes, another is the possibilities of the state. The Bulgarian pension system, I repeat, works on the principle relating to the personal contribution of each person, so it also has a different amount of pensions. There's no way that all pensioners get the same amount of pensions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The amount of each person's pension shall be based on insurance contributions that he has paid over the years. Naturally, if a person has been on a minimum wage over the years, he will also receive a minimum pension amount. We can't make up for these people. How can we stimulate people to provide real income? There's no way. I also do not support the recalculation of pensions that you are constantly importing because, on the one hand, it will cost a lot of money and thus distort the pension model because we automatically enter into the deficit spiral. We know that you are kings of deficits and of bankruptcy. Is that what you want next year? When we took over the management in 2009, the pension fund had a huge deficit. Two thirds of the pension money was paid by the state budget, in 2020, only one third of the pension money will be covered by the state budget. However, we cannot agree with what you propose. It all goes to the realm of populism. Let's talk to real numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Second line? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u101	Mrs. Angelova, of course there can't be equal pensions for all pensioners. It is very simple that one of us wanted to level the pensions of all pensioners. Of course the pension depends on personal social security income. However, we are talking about recalculating them with a new coefficient, which means that the lower pensions will increase in proportion to the average, in proportion to others... This can't be about uniformity at all! We've got at least two more weeks of budget talk ahead of us. Please let's not talk about the arguments that this is populism, it's scary, we got deficits, you're going bankrupt. If we keep doing politics like this, especially on a subject that affects 2 million and 150,000 people... It's not a coincidence that I started with this. These people have different political beliefs, some of them are your members and sympathizers, some of them are ours. If this is how we're going to lead the debate, neither of them will be helped. What they have in common is that they live badly, and we here in general have to decide how to make them live better. If you want, we can have this conversation like this. It's not populism that's already happened. Populism is to promise something impossible. In 2007, the Bulgarian Socialist Party has already revalued the pensions that we now offer and people remember it. What are you telling them? That that's not true and that's populism? They know that, they look at us and they listen to us. They remember that the BSP has revalued pensions and, I hope, believe that this is a possible policy and that it will happen again if the BSP has a majority. The theme of anti-popularism is not the reasonable way to approach this case. For the deficits, who has received how many deficits in their government? We have shown you one way to reduce deficits in solving this problem. The Silver Fund. You didn't say anything in your line on it. Explain where the money is! Ten or fifteen billion were supposed to be there?! There's three! Here is a source of funds for this policy, not to tell me that this is populism and it is not possible. It's possible! As long as we find reason and, again, I say, on one condition: the GEBR, start obeying the laws of the state! Or have the courage to go out in front of the people and say, "We cancel them, and we will not import money there, but not just bypass them because of the party and the sole interest of the man in the Council of Ministers of Dondukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Siddy, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the State Social Security Act for 2020 has been developed at a high professional level and reflects trends in terms of financial parameters, adequacy and stability of the system. The budget estimates foresee an increase in the number of insured persons for 2020, but the growth at stake in the budget is quite modest and in all cases with reservations, because the government forecasts include an increase in the level of employment, as well as a lower unemployment rate. We therefore believe that the revenues in the Draft Budget are underestimated. On the other hand, it is envisaged to update pensions granted by the end of 2019 by 6.7%, which is higher than the initial forecast and this is undoubtedly a positive trend, but it remains far from anticipated. The minimum labour pension level is BGN 243.13. And it has more than 100 leva. from the poverty line. Since 2017, the ratio between the line of poverty and the minimum pension has been maintained within 63% of the 64%. In the Management Program GERB and "United Patriarchs" we committed ourselves to looking for opportunities to reduce the difference between the line of poverty and the minimum pension. As I have already said, we believe that the revenues are underestimated and that is why we believe that there is an opportunity between first and second reading to increase the minimum pension to 250 BGN. as part of fulfilling our commitments to improve the lives of the oldest Bulgarian citizens. We will support the proposed Draft at first reading and between first and second reading we will propose changes to increase the minimum pension to 250 BGN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Zhelyazkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thanks to the good work of the institutions today, we can talk about a budget that provides and guarantees higher incomes. However, this also implies very big obligations and that is why we have such a responsible policy based on the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. We must be realistic and note that, in the budget of state social security, the government continues to adhere to two main topics, two main priorities in it, the stability policy and the policy for a gradual increase in pensions. Listening to the talkers on the topic of "pensions" and all the beautiful at first glance words that have been noted, I can say the following. We never let ourselves deceive people and mislead them. Our policy is to be open and not deceive people. The pension system is not something politicians have to play with. We all want to have higher incomes, more money for pensions and our government and institutions work to develop and build financial policy in Bulgaria. By considering the Draft Budget of State Social Security for 2020, we cannot fail to mention the main highlights in it. The 2020 increase of 6.7% in pensions is the highest increase in recent years. From 1 July 2020, the minimum pension for insurance service and age increases to 234 BGN and increases the pension for old age. The minimum amount of 2019 to receive one or more pensions of BGN 1200 shall also be maintained in 2020. The average pension amount of one pensioner next year is expected to reach 412,28 BGN, which is 8 per cent nominal growth and 5.8 per cent real growth compared to the expected level of 381 BGN. for this year. The overall picture compared to 2019 is that the budget of state social security for next year is better and, although inflation is envisaged, it will not affect the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. For the first time, over 10.5 billion pensions will be given, with nearly 40% of them coming from the state budget. So far, we have had 50% of the 60% coming from the budget, which means it is an indicator of good financial stability of the budget. In the following year, there is a provision for 720 million. lv. more than expected pensions in 2019. It is important to note that the forecasts in 2020 are the average insurance income to reach 1063 BGN, which is also an increase of 7.8% compared to its expectations in this year. For social benefits and benefits are also provided 99.5m. BGN, or 6.1% more than this year. The maximum amount of guaranteed claims of workers and employees in insolvency by the employer is also increased from BGN 1400. BGN 1525. Last but not least, speaking of the state social security budget, we should note that the institutions and the government respect their commitment to ensuring a stable and secure financial policy. Each of us realizes that only by maintaining a good fiscal policy and working towards raising investment, building a favorable living environment can we guarantee the increase in income in the country. There is still much work to be done in this area, but we know that we are going in the right direction and all the indicators so far show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The draft budget of state social security was presented to us by the government as pragmatic, realistic, predictable. I will define it as a budget of stagnation because there are again no reforms, policies to deal with the deepening social problems. Some of them are negative demographic trends and population reduction, a pension system that does not guarantee a decent increase in pensioners' incomes. Bulgaria takes the last place in the ranking of the countries of the European Union according to standard of living. Against this background is offered a budget that will not improve the lives of either the pensioners or the mothers or the unemployed. The deficit in the state social security budget for next year is approximately 4 billion. lv. There is little improvement in this amount, but again it continues to be one third of the total amount. The fact that once again in all funds, with the exception of the small fund, there is a shortage of labour accident and occupational disease, with the biggest deficit in the Fund. Therefore, it remains strange that the decision of the government of the maximum insurance income to be frozen at 3000 BGN, even more so that this also creates a sense of injustice in society. I'll start with the supposedly positive. The total allocation for 2020 for pension expenditure, short-term payments and transfers will be around 700 million. BGN, but as a share of gross domestic product they decrease from 9.9% to 9.8%. This is also maintained as a trend in pension expenditure as a share of gross domestic product. The expenditure for 2020 provided for in the budget of state social security is 8.3%, notice, at 9.2% for 2015, which shows that there is no improvement in social payments. Not only is there no improvement, but there is a retention, decrease and drop in this percentage. Thus the loudly announced update of pensions of 6.7% from 1 July 2020 is far from necessary, provided that 3% inflation is expected. The public expects more adequate measures. What will we do with the pensioners who receive about 200 BGN. A miserable pension a month, those who have provided themselves for 40 years fair and who in old age expect decent social protection? Clearly, this update will not have a tangible change in the standard of people who rely only on pensions. On the other hand, there is yet another major problem: opening, as is said, scissors between the lowest pensions and high pensions. The projected increase of 6.7% what will he do? Those pensions, which are approximately on the ceiling of 1200 BGN, those who receive such a pension, will receive an increase of about 70 BGN. The increase of the minimum pension for service and age is only 14 BGN, and for the social "8.89 BGN." This shows once again that the majority of pensioners will neither get richer nor live better. They're just gonna keep being terribly poor, they're gonna want to recalculate pensions, they're gonna keep protesting, they're gonna be slogans. So what? After all, we will say again, as they say: "I hope not! We in the group of BSP for Bulgaria and we believe that in order to ensure a decent existence of Bulgarian pensioners, a fair and adequate solution should be found in terms of the size of pensions. That is, all pensions should be recalculated so that they are almost or near the poverty line. This proposal will be made, as you understand, between first and second readings. About the rest of the social payments. Only in the State Social Security Project, eight times are mentioned in the words "Saved". Other social payments, which are through the state budget, are also frozen. I'm not gonna list them all. I will mention the minimum compensation for unemployment, which remains 9 BGN. per day or only 180 leva. monthly. Provided that the minimum wage is increased, for some reason the government retains it at last year's levels. Moreover, I would like to remind you that it is obtained not only from those who have provided themselves with a minimum wage, but also from those workers and employees who have provided themselves with maximum social income. Justice requires that this change. We will make our proposal between 1st and 2nd readings the demand for unemployment benefit to be 60% of the minimum wage or, if the minimum salary for 2020 is BGN 610, it will be a minimum of BGN 18. a day. I don't accept that child-bearing compensation for the second year of motherhood will be frozen again at 380 BGN. Many times we have talked about this topic and the arguments from the rulers say: "This decision to have a child and to raise it does not depend on the financial incentives the state will offer. I'd just like to mention one £380. for the second half of motherhood and BGN 363 a line of poverty. I can only say one thing: it's embarrassing! To conclude, I will say: yes, the budget is balanced. The budget is not just a balance, it is not juggling numbers The budget must also be a policy that offers at least minimal reforms and thus changes the consolidating lowest levels of poverty. With this budget of stamina, that will not change. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Any lines to Mrs. Jeleva's statement? I can't see. The next entry is Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u109	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister Petkov, honourable colleagues! To a large extent, this statement was provoked by the ridiculous political and professional talk of the representative of the DPS and the unfounded criticisms that were addressed to the political power "United Patriotic Front" or "Patriotic Front." These are the same people sitting to the left of you and right of us. I want to remind those who have a short memory because they are quite, or they have a memory, but they have no conscience because they give reproaches that have nothing to do with factology. During the late hours, when the 2017 budget was adopted, this was in December 2016, precisely the Patriotic Front (Patriotic Front) put to the vote the issue of raising the minimum pension to 300 BGN. It was we who were the political force, because before that we had an agreement with our colleagues on the left, on the right, the so-called heirs of the BCP, who did not fulfil their commitment and when voting on the general framework of the budget did not support us. In other words, the amounts for such an increase were not pre-arranged by taking away from their own flesh a party flesh, only four votes. Then, at the second vote, they released sparingly, about half their parliamentary group. The same now to tell me that they had a consistent policy is unfounded. Our policy was consistent. I return the tape in December 2016 when Budget 2017 was adopted. If we had then received support, we would have these five six votes, which did not pass our proposal and the minimum pensions would be 300 BGN. for 2017. We would now be talking about other dimensions of the amounts of minimum pension and indexed pension. Let's go. Thanks to our insistence and election commitments for the first time in the new history of Bulgaria at the beginning of the term of one management pensions were raised differently somewhere between 30 and 20 percent, but the minimum pension was set at 200 BGN, with which 724 thousand and 500 pensioners were benefited. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government of Bulgaria is currently a coalition, that two political forces are involved in it. One is GERB, the other is the United Patriarchs. In the negotiations that lasted about a month, this was one of the main topics that we were able to achieve. For the entire transition period, the DPS have not even attempted to achieve anything in this direction. At least we tried and achieved something. These efforts will not stop as long as we are present in the National Assembly or while we are present in politics. I can inform you that at this time we have already introduced a bill for elderly people, with which we foresee an increase in pensioners' incomes to the poverty threshold, through social assistance, support and so on. Finally, something that perhaps no one knows, but at this time, exactly in these days, we are having quite serious negotiations with our partners from GERB in this direction. We will have a meeting of the Political Council within a few days, just with commenting and discussing the issue of raising pensions and finding the appropriate reasonable mechanism on which the budget will not be broken down, but, on the other hand, we will fulfil our election commitment as we have done so far. The responsible political force that works in this direction is only within the framework of the United Patriarchs. I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend anyone, but I'm stating facts. Another professional incompetence we witnessed was the comment on disability pensions. Someone, if they didn't understand, we were the people who consistently and with great difficulty were able to change the Regulation on medical expertise, with which we set a mechanism for healing the Telks. There are extremely large thefts, embezzlements and corruption in the Telks right now. I guess I don't have to convince you. The numerous reports of TV stations, websites and so on from all over the country were convincing enough. At the moment, huge funds are being stolen there and there is currently a large reserve that we continue to claim must be directed towards pensions, towards ensuring higher pensions. Thank God, there's already a result in this direction. There's been a change in the telcs, in the work, in the composition of the telcs already. Pretty incompetent and frivolous, shallow, not to say, to set an example for not having worked the telk reform, by increasing the money for the disabled for next year. Naturally, both gross domestic product is increasing, and the minimum wage is increasing, and the average wage is increasing. It's perfectly normal, God willing, as much as possible to increase not only to disabled people, but also to all individuals who must somehow be supported. Oh, my God! This isn't proof of unfinished business. When a political force, which is not, after all, one of the biggest in parliament, is trying to do something, it would be good for the others to give some support, because what we are trying to do, we do it precisely and only for the sake of the interest of Bulgarian citizens. Sitting on the sidelines, ironing, showing, excuse me, incompetence, that's at least personally pathetic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. [[Applause from OP.]] - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Klisurska has signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u111	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The budget of state social security is a political document. It presents the vision of the government in the field of income, in the field of combating social inequality, poverty, care for socially vulnerable groups, mothers. The population of Bulgaria decreases by 50 thousand people a year. Only according to the Ministry of Finance, and this is data from a month ago. [[shows graphics of a piece of paper]] When the facts speak, everyone in this Chamber must remain silent. We see the state of working Bulgarians. The state of the working Bulgarians is such that the million and 700,000 Bulgarians work on the minimum wage. These policies that we propose with the State Social Security Budget should precisely answer the question: how do we raise people's incomes so that they are not working poor? Dear Minister, gentlemen experts! The state social security budget this year offers nothing. It's a repeat of nothingness from last year. In fact, I can tell he's much more tragic. I don't know why I said it last year from this tribune: why are you artificially lowering the revenue side of the budget? Why? Last year, when I stood in this room, anyone could check the shorthand, I said: "You bet 2,000 people insured more. " - How many do we perform this year? 50% tops. Now we are again betting only 2,000 insured persons increase compared to last year. Why are we doing this artificially lowering of insured persons when we have been talking about screaming unemployment for several years now that we have liberalized the regime for third-party workers? Why? The next buffer you create with the public insurance budget is linked to the pensioners placed. Only 7,000 less, given that this year they are 17,000 more, and it is clear to everyone that retirement conditions will make it very difficult for many of the pensioners. The number of pensioners to be reduced will be much higher. This year, the overexecution of the budget of the State Social Security was significant. Therefore, I say to you: artificially reduce the revenue to bet less on expenditure. A few more questions on the revenue side. What's stopping us from raising the maximum insurance income? This means that a group of people with very high incomes contribute to the budget with a lower percentage of their income. I'm back on the table. This is your finance minister's table. [[Replays the same graph.]] Look at them - 111 thousand people receive incomes over 3,000 levs. These 111 thousand people for the Fund alone would have contributed 333 million. lv. per year. Here are some of the funds you need for pensioners' policies. My next question is about the revenue section. Dear governors, where are the policies for accelerated growth of the minimum wage? The ratio in Bulgaria to the average is only 43%, given that in Europe, in developed European countries, the percentage is about 60. A few more questions: what do we do with minimum insurance income? Seventy-six percent of the minimum insurance income is on the minimum wage. This year we are giving a very large number of economic groups the opportunity to work on the minimum wage, not to work, to provide it, provided that, in the hands of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in the hands of you, ruling gentlemen and ladies, excuse me, is the administrative increase in minimum insurance income. Why don't you? Now I'm going to say a few things in terms of spending. Exactly because you're reducing the revenue, at some point what do we see in spending? You're hurting the mothers! The compensation for raising a child between the first and second years remains for the third consecutive year 380 BGN. How a mother within 12 leva. He's gonna look after his kid every day and live a normal life?! Why don't we take into account inflation indices and why don't we take into account this issue for three years of freezing?! The other freezing for three years is the minimum unemployment benefit, which remains 9 BGN. A third year in a row. Why, when all of us who leave by our own accord and under the Labour Code are ultimately given the opportunity to receive maximum or higher unemployment benefit only those to whom the employer has terminated the relationship? Which, what does it mean? That we are also damaging this vulnerable group of unemployed people. My last sentence will be related to the Bulgarian pensioners. Fourteen, twenty leva, ladies and gentlemen in charge of this difficult social life, do you think it will be enough for the Bulgarian pensioners to deal with all the higher prices? Two million Bulgarian pensioners live below the poverty line! So we will not accept this budget because it is restrictive and does not give answers to how to deal with poverty, with inequalities, how to make the lives of socially vulnerable groups protected. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u113	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to bring you back to the subject of providing farmers. Third year in a row The National Insurance Institute offers a double increase in insurance for farmers and in 2018 they offer from 300 BGN. at 480 BGN, and ultimately 350 BGN. In 2019, from 350 BGN. At 560 leva. It's 400 BGN. is the final effect, and now from 400 leva. £610. The hypothesis is that this will increase pensions. It has already been shared that this will not increase farmers' pensions. There is absolutely no economic analysis as to how this will affect the sector of agriculture and those who are mostly small and medium-sized farmers. For information, 46 thousand farmers were provided in 2018. Mr. Ademov said that 36 thousand were in 2019. At this rate. To decrease by 10 thousand farmers and not to engage in this sector with sensitive sectors of plant farming, livestock farming, as well as forestry, at the end of the next and the following year, the reductions will be more than 30%. Do we want small farmers to stay to work in Bulgaria and to do farming?! If we want to, we have to give them conditions for that. They are aligned to large farms and have absolutely no opportunity to develop because their requirements are as they are to large farms. Therefore, my appeal to you is: do not abuse or seek opportunities to increase insurance and thus sanction farmers who work. Only the little ones are affected. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Only one more number supplied in 2019, compared to 2018, the reduction of small farmers in the sector is 34%. The future for these farms is not very pink. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Colleagues, any other speeches? Mrs. Angelova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was very much hoping in today's debate on the discussion of the budget of state social security rational and supported by evidence arguments to prevail over the emotional and, unfortunately, sometimes populist attempts to reverse the facts. Why should the budget of state social security be supported for 2020? Because there are a number of positive effects in it. The first and most important among them is the fact that it continues efforts to strengthen the financial sustainability of state social security. For another year, insurance revenues cover an increasing proportion of the costs of state social security. In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The first year of this government's governance, it was about 57% of the costs, and in 2020, it is expected to be over 65 percent of the costs. At the same time, the transfer by the state budget for the payment of pensions is significantly reduced. As I said in my previous speech, in 2009, when we first took over the government, the deficit in the pension fund was extremely large's over four and a half billion, two thirds of the pension money was paid from the state budget, and now for 2020 less than one third of the pension expenditure will be covered by the state budget. What can we conclude from this data? First of all, that this is a positive effect of the pension reform that we made in 2015. Next, thanks to the policies carried out in the economy, the labour market, income policies, as well as the prudent spending being made, the economy of the state is growing, incomes are growing, employment is growing, and all this has a positive impact on the balance between the revenues and the costs of state social security and its financial situation. These are the facts and sustainability in terms of reducing the deficit of state social security must be constantly stressed and supported. This is one of the strengths of the 2020 State Social Security Project. The second major advantage of the draft budget is its contribution to solving some current social problems. As has been said, since 1 July 2020, an increase in pensions of 6.7 per cent is envisaged. The increase reflects the accumulated inflation and the increase in the average monthly insurance income for the previous year. I am in a hurry to respond to critics who would say that since the increase is from the middle of the year, it will hardly be eliminated from inflation in 2020, but if we make our efforts to read the autumn macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance for 2020 - 2022, which is part of the updated medium-term budget forecast, then the planned inflation for 2020 is 2.1 percent. The rate for updating pensions is 6.7 percent and although it will be applied from the middle of the year, it ensures an increase in the purchasing power of all pensions. This is what objective data shows. Next, we will certainly hear many different proposals between first and second readings for an increase in pensions in 2020. Applications were also given in previous speeches by colleagues, but when we discuss ideas regarding an increase in pensions, I call on their importers to come from the professional analysis, and this is to give the arguments why their proposals are better for raising pensions. To evaluate these proposals, I suggest we use two criteria. The first is: are they helping to preserve the financial sustainability of state social security and, the second, are they in line with the economic development and financial situation of the country? This is extremely important because if we do not comply with these two criteria, all the proposals that we will see between first and second readings, to increase the amount of pensions and the update will be, as I said, in the field of populism and inevitably will lead, above all, to an increase in the deficit of state social security. With regard to this draft budget, we can say that it meets these two criteria positively. As I have already had the opportunity to stress, the policy of preserving the sustainability and stability of state social security continues and, on the other hand, most importantly, this budget is in line with the country's economic and financial capabilities. So, if there are such proposals that offer a better comprehensive approach to the life level of pensioners and the development of the pension system than the proposed in the Draft Budget of the Council of Ministers, we are ready to discuss them, but we must not forget that in the retirement case some unintended decisions today may have very severe and serious consequences for years. Many things can be said about short-term benefits and benefits. For 2020 there is an increase in the costs of short-term benefits and aid by 6.2 percent, compared to the expected implementation of the 2019 budget. The 2020 draft budget provides the necessary funds for the full implementation of the rights of insured persons, taking into account the increase in the insurance income. We have already heard from the previous criticism that the regulations on unemployment benefits and the amount of maternity allowance for the second year have not changed and need an increase. In the context of these considerations, let us take into account the fact that this and next year we have a lasting reduction in unemployment in the country. In the 2020 macro framework, the unemployment rate is set to continue to decrease, reaching 4.1 per cent. In practice, only those who are the most vulnerable will not be included in the labour market, so this proposal, which you will make, honourable Members of the BSP, to increase unemployment benefit, is unacceptable because the labour market needs a workforce and not to make people stand unemployed and receive high unemployment benefit. Is it not better for these people to qualify, improve their skills and immediately get involved in the labour market than to stay at home and wait for social benefits? Our arguments are similar with regard to child benefit up to two years of age. Let us recall that Bulgaria has the longest motherhood compared to all the other European countries - 58 weeks, at only 14 weeks, set as a minimum for the Member States of the European Union, according to the European Directive. So it is very careful to take into account how the increase in this payment, i.e. motherhood in the second year, will affect the supply of labour and the career perspective that stands before women and the need for labour. I conclude my speech with the summary that the Draft Budget of State Social Security for 2020 is realistic and covers all the criteria for stability of state social security for 2020 and therefore deserves to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. A line? Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, with great respect to you! You just spoke to your colleague Klisurska. Her whole speech was being spent in this part, that we have a reduced income portion of the DEA. The colleague made nine arguments, however, to which I expected there to be answers to these nine arguments. You haven't answered any questions, and I hope Mr. Minister Petkov will answer these questions precisely because...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u118	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u119	But listen to me carefully! Because those questions that raised the colleague, I don't care which party they're from. The truth is that what the colleague Klisurska said is absolutely true.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u120	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u121	Answer your questions! I'm taking a line to you! Answer me! Answer these questions because nine important questions have been asked, which I have not received a single answer to so far. That's why I'm asking you! Or if you can't answer, the Minister will answer. So much for that! There are nine arguments by Klissurska not a single answer to this question!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u122	The line must be to Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u123	Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revival to the left.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u124	Mrs. Angelova? [[Reply of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova.]] You have nothing to do with Mr. Atanasov's line. Any other speeches, colleagues? Personal explanation Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! That's how we solve the IPO budget, and thank you for that line. Because when we were first reading in committees debating the IPO budget, we didn't get a single answer. I hope that, between first and second readings, when we debate policies, we will receive an answer that will support some of our proposals. I hope the Minister will explain, because it doesn't make any sense in what we're being offered.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Any other speeches? I can't see, guys. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u127	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the National Insurance Institute! I listened with attention to the debate on the Draft Law on the Budget of the DVO for 2020. The budget of the DVO concerns the interests of nearly five million Bulgarians, 2 million. $800,000. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from $150,000. pensioners and it is normal to be the subject of a serious debate in the Bulgarian National Assembly. I will allow myself, at the end of this long-term discussion, to try to point out a few merits, in my view, to the proposed Bill on the budget of the DVO. First of all, the 2020 DCI budget has been drawn up on the basis of the legislation in force and the Draft Law does not provide for any substantial amendments to the Social Security Code. This gives me reason to argue that the proposed draft budget is realistic, feasible and the risks of its implementation are minimized. Next, once again, I would like to point out that for the first time, it is planned that the collected insurance contributions will exceed the amount of 8 billion. lv. and provide funding for two thirds of the costs of the DCI budget. The change in the proportion of the funding of the costs of the DVO over the past 10 years gives it financial stability, significantly reduces its dependence on funding from the state budget, returns it to the insurance model. Thirdly, I believe that, with the planned pension costs and short-term benefits, the budget for the next year provides the necessary social protection for insured persons and Bulgarian pensioners. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the insurance system is so designed that insurance payments are derived from labour income. I mean, they're a substitute income. In this regard, the sustainable growth of insurance payments goes only through growth in employment and labour income. Therefore, the government's efforts are directed precisely in these directions to secure employment and increase employment income. I'll give an example. As has been mentioned repeatedly, the Bill provided for an update of pensions from 1 July 2020 by 6.7%. This relatively high percentage is possible thanks to the high growth of the average social security income for 2019, which is 10.8%. In fact, the update exceeds the percentage set in the 3-year forecast, which was 5.3%. This is the way! The members of each draft budgetary law face the dilemma, the compromise choice to maintain the financial stability of the insurance system and to ensure an increase in the liquidity of insurance payments. I am convinced that this project offers a reasonable balance between these two objectives of the insurance system. On this basis, on the basis of the merits of the State Security Budget Act, which I have pointed out, gives me reason to call for this project to be supported. At the same time, we are open to discuss all the proposals that the MPs will make between first and second readings and which would improve the submitted project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. I put to the first vote the Draft Budget of State Social Security for 2020, No 902-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote, fellow Members. Let's vote one more time. He was having trouble with the consoles. Colleagues, please vote on the 2020 State Social Security Budget Bill. We canceled the vote because there was a problem on some consoles. Let's make it clear to everyone why we're voting twice. We just have a problem with the system. Mr. Nunev and Mrs. Lecheva have a problem with the consoles, Mrs. Klisurska, Mrs. Markov. Vote 208 MPs: 121 against 87 abstentions. The motion is accepted. There was a negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u129	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted against the draft law on the budget of state social security for 2020 because people whose incomes are just pensions are doomed again to a miserable existence. The scissors between old and new pensions are preserved and the unfair approach to an equal increase in all pensions. This will continue to create an indisputable conflict between generations, and the recalculation that my colleagues have also spoken about is not foreseen again, and this further condemns people who rely only on these incomes to lack and deprivation. In general, the budget of state social security does not propose new policies, measures and solutions. It does not solve any of the systemic problems of social security. The freezing of other social payments continues the trend of strengthening the lowest levels of poverty and inequalities across the European Union. Minimum pension of BGN 234 and a social pension of BGN 141. is a mockery. Indeed, the entry in the Constitution that Bulgaria is a social state is irrelevant to the ruling majority. The only result of this public security budget will be even more poverty. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second negative vote, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u131	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I also voted against. Much of the arguments have already been said. They are contained both in the understatement of revenue, the low base of revenue and in the inequality that exists between old and new pensions and in the freezing of these payments, which are only to be saved, we introduce a term that is very nice. But I also voted against it because of another motive. The just adopted law disproves Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, disproves him in this part where he says many highly qualified people started returning to Bulgaria. They're not on the budget. They're not in the people who will work for pensions. They are not accepted into the public administration because maybe the Kalinkas do not give them a place there. They may have gone to the labor desks and signed up to draw money from the NOI. Or the third, which is.. they have become retired. So these people don't create a product that we all rely on. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u132	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. And third, last negative vote, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u133	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this law because you don't have to be an economist to understand that when you need BGN 360. To live, you can't live with BGN 234. I voted against it because you do not need to be a social security specialist to understand that it is not fair that two people who worked the same profession for the same long time, to take a different pension because they have retired one year in another year and another. I voted against it because, without being a budgeter, you understand that you cannot boast that your budget is balanced when this balance rests on the sacrifice of more than two million people taking miserable pensions and with a ceiling to save a few thousand people a little higher contributions. If that's your balance, I say we push the scales! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-12.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. That concludes today's session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
