ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for February 15, 2019: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 26 November 2018, adopted at the first vote on 16 January 2019. 2. First vote on the Agricultural Census Bill in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. Importer "The Council of Ministers," on 31 January 2019. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018. Importer 4. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code [[General project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 12 December 2018 with importers: Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs on 23 February 2018; Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Iskren Veselinov on 16 November 2018]] Point 1 for Thursday 14 February 2019 5. Draft decision to open a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code. Importers "Cornelia Nino" and a group of MPs on 6 February 2019, item 2 for Thursday, 14 February 2019. 6. Parliamentary control "Friday 15 February 2019" at 9:00 p.m. including: 6.1. Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the policy of the Ministry on the implementation of electronic wineries; 6.2. Answers to questions and Please, voting mode. They voted 167 MPs: 141, against 3, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Second week in a row we have an agenda that is extremely short, and in the case of hard work the working day today can be completed at 10:30. Colleagues, hard work, as always, means BSP is looking for a debate, BSP is looking for the truth, GERB is silent. Unfortunately, for a second week, you get this thing. I think it is extremely embarrassing, Madam President, to present such an agenda, given that the opposition has bills that have not even been seen in committees such as the Public Finance Act, the Property Act and the use of agricultural land. I think it is shameful to continue the work of this Parliament in this way. This shows, first of all, that you are ashamed of the legislation that is entering; that you are completely incompetent to do your job, and for us it means that this Parliament is exhausted, the government is exhausted because it cannot fill the work of Parliament and that is why it is best to go to elections by disbanding this Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Comments from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. You have the opportunity to make proposals on Wednesdays under art. 53, para. 3 to fill the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u4	They don't look at each other on committees!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u5	You have the opportunity under art. 53, para. 3. Read the rules, Mr. Stoinev. We also have the first Wednesday of the month under art. 53, para. 8, so there are possibilities. [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] What personal explanation? What kind of personal explanation? You are doing the procedure and I am explaining to you what you should do. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Last week was the first Wednesday. For the honourable viewers, this is the day when the opposition can submit a bill. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] We took advantage of this right of ours and you didn't even want to say a word on this bill. After all, is this a parliamentary tribune where we have to have political debates or have I gone wrong?! If you're mistaken, then leave this parliament. Secondly, we have bills, Madam President, which have not even been seen in committees. I'm sorry, but it's extremely insulting for us to submit bills and take advantage of para. 3, provided that you do not want even in committees to be examined. Take a look at them, throw them away, but let there be a political debate, and not maybe today will only take place in the push of buttons, or wait for the opposition to say their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Draft and draft resolutions from 6 February 2019 to 12 February 2019: - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importers: Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. - Draft decision to open a public procedure under art. 47, para. 1 of the Election Code. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Proposal for discussion on questions No 954-05-4 of 16 January 2019 by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry for the Implementation of Electronic Wines. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. - A bill to supplement the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. Importers: Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Messages: Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about consumer monitoring January 2019; indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade without the trade in cars and motorcycles" in December 2018; indexes of construction production in December 2018. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW TO PROTECT THE MEDICAL REACTIONS OF CHEMIC SUBSTANCES AND MESSAGES. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ? Report on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. The Law on the Protection from the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u9	Statements, coworkers? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 151 MPs: 150, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following additions: 1. In § 1, t. 63 after the word "supplier' is added, or "supplier', which is powered by an external source of energy. 2. In Paragraph 1b, the end of the Directive (EU) 2017/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 amending Directive 2011/65/EU as regards the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (OJ L 305, 8.11.2017, p.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u11	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 144 MPs: 142, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u12	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place after § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u13	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 3 by importer. They voted 145 MPs: 143, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u14	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemical Substances and Mixes (BW, No. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,), the following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In § 12: (a) A new item shall be created. 5. It's five o'clock. any other EEE to be placed on the market before 22 July 2019 and not covered by art. 21f, para. 2, p. 1.. 10;............................................................................... b) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 6 and in it is created a letter (s): any other EEE which is placed on the market before 22 July 2019 and which is not within the scope of art. 21f, para. 2, p. 1.. 10;............................................................................... c) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7 and is amended as follows: "7." re-use spare parts recovered from EEE, provided that the reuse of spare parts takes place in audited closed linked return systems between operators and the consumer is notified of this reuse if the following conditions are met: (a) the spare parts used were recovered from EEE placed on the market before 1 July 2006 and used in EEE placed on the market before 1 July 2016; (b) The spare parts used shall be recovered from medical devices under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 of the Medical Devices Act or of industrial monitoring and control instruments placed on the market before 2 July 2014 and used in EEE placed on the market before 22 July 2024; (c) the spare parts used were recovered from in vitro diagnostic medical devices placed on the market before 22 July 2016 and used in EEE placed on the market before 22 July 2026; (d) the spare parts used were recovered from industrial control and control instruments placed on the market before 22 July 2017 and used in EEE placed on the market before 22 July 2027; (e) the spare parts used were recovered from another EEE placed on the market before 22 July 2019 and used in EEE placed on the market before 22 July 2029 and which is not covered by art. 21f, para. 2, p. 1.. 10;............................................................................... 2. Paragraph 13 shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u15	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed provisions in § 3 relate to the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances which enter into force from 22 July 2019. The restrictions apply to all categories of electrical and electronic equipment, and the articles placed on the market shall not contain dangerous substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium and other over certain permitted concentrations. At the same time, the provisions exempt those requirements for certain categories of equipment and introduce different transitional periods for the reuse of spare parts for a certain type of equipment. The aim is to facilitate activities involving repair, replacement of spare parts, renewal and reuse in order to promote the circular economy in the European Union. Since exemptions from restrictions under the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances should apply for a limited period, the amendments applied shall specify the deadline until those exemptions are valid. For example, lead and mercury may be used in a concentration of 0,1% and cadmium in a concentration of more than 0,01 per cent in reusable spare parts recovered from electrical and electronic equipment when the parts are recovered from medical devices under the Medical Devices Act or industrial monitoring and control instruments, but not later than 22 July 2024. Where spare parts are recovered from in vitro diagnostic medical devices, the time limit shall be 22 July 2026 and for spare parts recovered from any other electrical and electronic equipment, the deadline shall be 22 July 2029. After expiry of the deadlines, hazardous substances such as lead, mercury, cadmium and others shall be used in the relevant items below the relevant concentrations. The proposals shall ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment, including the environmentally sound disposal of electrical and electronic equipment. At the same time, in full compliance with European legislation, an unnecessary administrative burden for market participants is avoided over a certain period of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make any other speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3. They voted 144 MPs: for 136, they won't mind, they abstentioned 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u18	The Commission proposes to establish a name: "Concluding provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u19	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to set up "Concluding provisions." Vote 138 MPs: 133 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u20	Proposal by Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to set up paragraphs 4 and 5: ............................................ In the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act (BW, No. 58, 2015) in the Transitional and Final Provisions of § 62, para. 4 is amended as follows: Until 31 December 2016, water collection, water use and pollution charges shall be calculated and paid in the current order and in the current dimensions. From 1 January 2017, the fees for water consumption, water use and pollution shall be calculated and paid in the new order and in the new amounts fixed by the tariff under art. 194, para. 6................................................ § 5. The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 4, which shall enter into force on 1 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u21	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor to clarify the proposal that we have tabled, together with our fellow Members of the National Assembly, to this bill. The proposal aims to regulate, in accordance with the provisions of the Water Act and the Law on Regulatory Acts, clearly and unambiguously, that, with effect from 1 January 2017, water collection fees, water use and pollution charges under the Water Act are calculated and paid according to the Decree adopted by Decree No 383 of the Council of Ministers of 29 December 2016. The tariff for water collection fees, water use and pollution charges. In fact, Decree No 383 of 29 December 2016 accepts the Tariff, which is currently in force, for the water collection fees, for the use of a water site and for pollution, and § 5 of the Tariff states that it shall enter into force from 1 January 2017. However, the promulgation of this Decree shall take place after that date, namely on 6 January 2017. In view of the deadline for bringing the Tariff into line with the Law, signed in § 62, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, as well as the fact that the water use fees under the Water Act are annual and are paid by the water users in the following year, in any event the tariff introduced in accordance with the Law should take effect no later than 1 January 2017, which, given the delayed promulgation of the Tariff in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the basis of the Law on Legislative Acts, should be explicitly regulated in the relevant law. This is the reason for our proposed addition to the texts of this Bill, and the proposal, as has become clear, is of a legal and technical nature and aims to clearly regulate the deadlines for the entry into force of the Tariff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. I am voting on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 4 and 5 under the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: for 123, not against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the work programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROLECTION FOR THE RECORDING OF EMPLOYMENT IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2020 Importer is the Council of Ministers. Ms. Taneva, you have the floor to introduce us to the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please first, to make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of: Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Atanas Dobrev; Mr. Nikolay Marinov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u25	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Dobrev, Mr. Marinov and Mrs. Atanasova to the hall. Please continue with the report, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u26	? Report for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Law on the Counting of Farms in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 No 902-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 7 February 2019 discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Nikolay Marinov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Regional Policy and Diana Atanasova, Head of Department in the same Directorate. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Nikolay Marinov. The Law provides for the preparation, organisation and conduct of the census of agricultural holdings. The purposes of the census are defined. The monitoring of the census will be the farms meeting the relevant criteria set out in the Law. The types of information to be collected for each holding, the reference periods for which the data and main sources of administrative data will be collected are regulated. As counting bodies are defined: the statistics body of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the districts. The order, method of operation, functions, rights and duties of all participants in the census are detailed. The respective mandatory trainings of respondents and controllers are provided for to conclude civil contracts for the implementation of census activities. The information from farmers will be collected by completing a statistical questionnaire on-site or online. For this purpose, a web-based application will be created and a single entry point for data entry will be provided. The organization and management of the census is entrusted to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, together with the district governors and mayors of municipalities. The method of financing is determined. The preparation for the census will include the establishment of a list of holdings subject to inquiry and the conduct of a trial census to check in real terms the counting toolkit and readiness for online data entry. The results and conclusions will be taken into account in the actual census. The inquiry is planned to take place from 1 September to 18 December 2020, and by 18 September the introduction of information will be possible via the internet by farmers who will complete an electronic questionnaire using a web-based application. In the remaining period, the data will be collected through an on-the-spot interview by respondents who will complete the questionnaire on paper or online. The control of completeness and accuracy of information will be completed three months after the end of the inquiry. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry should take the necessary measures to ensure the quality of the data transmitted. The order and manner of processing of the data received, to ensure their confidentiality and to safeguard statistical secrecy, as well as the obligation to provide them to Eurostat, accompanied by a Quality Report, are regulated. The results of the census will be public. The relevant administrative criminal provisions are laid down. In the subsequent discussion of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the Commission expressed support for the bill by raising the issue, the lack of a requirement to take into account the number of agricultural equipment available in the farms, the lack of clarity about the number of controllers who will participate in the census, and the need to refine the concepts. In conclusion, the MPs from all parliamentary groups have united around the opinion between the first and second votes of the draft agricultural technique also to be included as an indicator by which information is collected in the census, and that the legal definition of the concept of agricultural and forestry is to be refined so that there is no possibility of a vague interpretation. In conclusion, after the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 19 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote an agricultural census bill in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 902-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The general objective of the Law proposed to your attention is to arrange for the preparation, organisation and holding of the census of agricultural holdings in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, in accordance with the requirements of art. 18 of the Statistics Act and the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. According to the Regulation, all Member States of the European Union are obliged to carry out such censuses in order to establish the state of agriculture in each of them. For Bulgaria this is the third census of this scale. The first was held in 2003, the second in 2010, now the third such census. In 2003, the subject of an inquiry was 640 000 farms. In 2010 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty Now the expectations of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry are the farms that will meet the criteria set out in Annex No 2 of the Bill and will fall within the scope of the counting process, about 200,000 will be. In the meantime, a survey of the structure of agricultural holdings shall be carried out every three years, covering around 40,000 farms which are determined on the basis of a risk-analysis carried out. At the same time, an annual survey of the accounting agricultural statistics of agricultural holdings in Bulgaria is carried out. These activities aim at ensuring due, detailed, comprehensive information on the structure of agricultural holdings in the country. Prior to the start of the actual census process, the implementation of preparatory actions relating to the identification of the counting bodies directly involved in the preparation, organisation and conduct of activities at central and regional level shall be envisaged. These are respectively: the Statistical Authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Agrostatistics Department of the Directorate General for Agriculture and Regional Policy. The National Statistical Institute will have the commitment to provide the statistics body with information on economic operators from the register of statistical units engaged in agricultural activity to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. This information will serve to prepare a list of farms subject to inquiry. In addition, the Bill identifies the main sources of administrative data of the census. These are: the integrated administration and control system; the system for the identification and registration of bovine animals; the system for the identification and registration of ovine and caprine animals; the vineyard register; the organic farming register and administrative sources related to specific rural development measures. State authorities and bodies supporting these administrative registers and information systems will be obliged to provide the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with the data necessary for the conduct of the census free of charge. For the implementation of the requirements laid down in the Regulation for determining the scope of agricultural holdings, the precise production of a comprehensive list of holdings subject to an inquiry in order to provide a range of 98% of the agricultural area used and 98% of the livestock units of kept agricultural animals on farms is necessary. Experience in the country has shown that the presence of very small agricultural holdings does not allow for meeting the requirements of the Regulation and a lower threshold for meeting the criteria is adopted in Bulgaria. In this regard, the Bill states that the census covers agricultural holdings meeting at least one of the criteria set out in Annex No 2. The Bill also fixed the period of the census, namely from 1 September to 18 December 2020. The development of a module for online input and control of individual data in the integrated agrostatistics system is envisaged. In advance, data from the administrative registers of the State Fund will be loaded in the electronic statistical questionnaire and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, SPC and VetIS, thus reducing the burden on respondents, which will also focus the efforts of the European Commission with the adoption of the Regulation. It is envisaged to carry out an initial trial census, the purpose of which is to verify, in real terms, the readiness to carry out the actual census. The trial will take place as early as 2019. From 1 September to 11 October 2019 and from 1 to 10 September 2019 the data will be introduced online by farmers, and from 11 September to 11 October 2019 will be collected through respondents and controlled by experts in agrostatistics from the districts...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From 1 to 18 September 2020, the census will be carried out on the Internet by providing data from farmers using a web-based application and completing an electronic questionnaire from the agricultural holding and from 19 September to 18 December 2020 by an interviewer by interviewing the owner or manager of the farm and completing a paper-based questionnaire or by online introduction using a portable electronic device. The entered information from the census will be summarised by the statistics body of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and validated data will be provided to 12, § 1 of Regulation EU/2018/1091, having regard to the requirement of the Regulation on the quality of the data received. Information on holdings for the purposes of the census is intended to provide farmers, managers and persons familiar with the activity of the holding. The draft details the order and manner of the census, rights and obligations of farmers, farm managers, respondents and controllers. The recruitment and training of around 2500 respondents to visit the farms, to consult with paper questionnaires and to enter the data online in the software developed for the census is envisaged accordingly. Their work will be controlled by about 250 controllers and, if necessary, there will be the possibility of hiring additional administrative staff, such as external experts, operators, trainers and others. The adoption of the Farm Counting Act in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 will ensure the realization of all activities in preparation, organization, realization and implementation of the counting process. This will in turn ensure the collection of reliable, detailed and comprehensive statistical information and contribute to updating the statistical register of agricultural holdings. The availability of statistics comparable to those of the other Member States on the structure of agricultural holdings is extremely important in determining the development of agricultural policy. It will help define the guidelines for the development of Bulgarian agriculture and make it modern and adequate to the higher consumer criteria. Quality statistical information will allow for effective planning, development, implementation and monitoring in the field of agriculture both of the European Union and at national level. In view of the foregoing, I call on the proposed bill to be supported. [[Voices "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? You have the floor to speak, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After this extensive presentation of the Bill I can hardly add anything more than what the motives have suggested in it for the census of agricultural holdings in Bulgaria, but I still want to say some things that concern us and which we wish between first and second readings to be corrected. It is a fact that the census of agricultural holdings is a routine procedure taking place in all countries of the European Union, and one of the tasks of this census is to make comparability in a 10-year period for the dynamics of agricultural holdings, their assets and development opportunities, competitiveness under common agricultural policy, support for the sector. From this point of view, the census of agricultural holdings for scientific purposes is extremely important and enables conclusions to be drawn and also evaluate the development of the sector in a longer period. Although it is a routine procedure and this is not the first time we have done it, the last census was 2010, I believe that the administration already has the necessary experience and skills in completing the polls, in carrying out the controls, in their implementation. However, there are and there are a number of difficulties, and these difficulties are related, first of all, to identifying the objects that will accordingly be polled. As far as the bill shows, the entire burden of which sites will be surveyed is assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests through agrostatism. The fact remains that the National Statistics are not included in this coordination, which can create extremely large problems with regard to identification. I should remind you that in previous censuses, the Ministry of Agriculture and National Statistics had good coordination and opportunities for data exchange, which would give fullness to the sample and also full counting. I believe that this is one of the problems that must find its solution in the Bill in order to be able to fully assess the structure of agricultural holdings. It is also important to accurately identify the objects and scope of the census itself. We believe that an essential part of the identification of these holdings, namely agricultural equipment, has been omitted in the Bill. We also believe that this should be the subject of consideration. Last but not least, definitions and the ability to identify exactly who will be the subject of the observations. It's all written down: it's a holding. In "Transitional and final provisions" we give a definition to a holder that makes a bit of ambiguity. Its identification includes three main elements related to its economic and legal responsibility, farm activities and who is taking the risk. This text shows that both the owner and the owner of the farm are involved in the counting and registration of a single holding, which, in our opinion, will create problems in the implementation of the census itself. We hope that the Ministry of Agriculture has made precise economic analyses of what the financial dimensions of this census will be. As far as can be assessed and seen from the economic justification, about 180 thousand farms will be counted. This is preliminary information that is calculated on the basis of current censuses during the year. However, it must be borne in mind that perhaps at the moment this economic justification and the means that are envisaged will not be sufficient, although the number of holdings compared to the previous census is reduced due to the fact that these so-established farms, with their infrastructure, require much more effort from respondents compared to 2007 and 2010 and from this point of view the estimates must be a little more precise. One recommendation: before going to the final census in the 20th year, to have an accurate account, along with statistics, about the number of sites surveyed and about the financial dimensions of this census. Thank you. [[Applause from Bravo and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u31	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a Member State of the European Union, the Republic of Bulgaria should apply the provisions of Regulation (EU/2018/1091 of the European Parliament and of the Board of Directors. This Regulation aims to achieve consistency and comparability of statistical data through the census of agricultural holdings, to regulate common statistical concepts, reporting formats, quality requirements of all Member States of the European Union. In accordance with art. 18 of the Law on Statistics, the comprehensive censuses of the population and the housing fund, and the agricultural censuses are carried out under a separate law. This requires the adoption of the Farm Counting Act in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. It will create integrated statistics on the structure of agricultural holdings, on production methods, on measures for rural development and on agri-environment indicators. What I would like to inform you is that the census is funded by the European Commission, which for Bulgaria amounts to up to 2 million. EUR and will be provided on the basis of the expenditure. The Bulgarian country will participate with only 25%, with funding and funds provided by the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. As you were already aware of the report presented, the bill regulates the entire process of preparation, organisation and implementation of the census. It shall record in detail the relevant thresholds to which the farm should comply in order to be subject to an inquiry. This relates to the need to draw up a comprehensive list of all farms to be counted. Making the list is a stage of preliminary preparation of the counting process. The next stage of the preliminary preparation is the carrying out of the so-called sample census. This census will take place in 2019. From 1 September to 11 October 2019, its results and conclusions will be taken into account in the organisation, conduct and formation of the actual census. I think it is important to note that the indicators that will be monitored during the census are very comprehensively written in Appendix No 1 of the Bill. These are the so-called changeables, where data will be collected, such as complete geographical administrative information on holdings such as geographical location; contact details, headquarters; data on the legal person; sole trader; the legal status of the holding; personal data of natural persons including the farm manager, such as age, sex and qualification. Information will also be collected on the type of ownership and how to manage the used agricultural area; on the purpose of production; on the distribution of crop areas detailed in the Annex; on the used agricultural area under glass or high accessible cover, also divided by crops. The collection of data on unused agricultural land, flood areas and areas for the cultivation of cultivated mushrooms is envisaged; for organic farming by field; for farms which have benefited from the types of rural development measures. Detailed information will be collected on the insurances made; on the innovation introduced, on the labour force in the holding, on permanent and temporary employed and on other profitable activities. Information will also be collected on farm animals and birds on the farm listed in the Annex by category, on animal buildings and on manure management. It should be noted that, during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, all MPs from the political forces agreed that it was necessary to do so, as said the previous, the relevant proposal between the first and second votes of the Bill, proposing that agricultural equipment should also be included as an indicator of research. This will give a complete idea of the extent of the mechanization of agriculture in our country. The other thing we have also united in is that the definition of a farmer within the meaning of this law must be refined, because it will rule out the possibility of a vague interpretation of the concept. Overall, during the Commission, the bill was supported by all the political forces, as it will regulate the census activities, with the realization of which it will provide general and comprehensive information on the state of agricultural holdings throughout the country. The use of census results is public, central, territorial, international, such as: the European Commission, Eurostat, FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization), the World Bank, branch organizations in the fields of agriculture, universities, scientific institutes, organizations of workers and employers, Bulgarian and foreign companies, as well as media and citizens. The statistical information obtained can be used by a wide range of experts and specialists in and outside the management, who in their activities need accurate, comprehensive, up-to-date and structured information to carry out an analysis of the state of agriculture in the country, to make management decisions and to develop strategies, specific national and regional agricultural policies. This, in turn, will help shape the European Union's policy in supporting and developing this sector. In view of everything set out here, I call on my fellow Members to support the Agricultural Census Bill in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. Thank you. [[Single applause from GERB and from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Dear Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think that if we read the reasons again, we will teach them all. An extremely important Bill, and I think that here in this House, there should also be political talk, as the reasons are written by the administration in a purely administrative nature. We should say here in this room: this data what we will do and what from now on policy will be, as transformation goes through quantitative and qualitative indicators. Without knowing the assessment of the structure of the agricultural farm, we cannot reformat the agricultural policy so that from the last country in the European Union an agricultural country can go back to the top three things that we were before 1989. I think that is undoubtedly this and it is not about any propaganda. Agrostatistics well shows where was the role and place in the agricultural sector in Europe and globally in Bulgaria before 1989. In this regard, what Professor Bachvarova also said, I would like to make a remark to the administration that they have not included the census of agricultural equipment and the attached inventory. We must see in the 11 years of membership of the European Union and before that on pre-accession funds what is the availability of agricultural equipment. This allows for a new analysis of new schemes for financing equipment in some agricultural subsectors, in which we have had a tradition or can be of added value in the next programming period of the new common agricultural policy. Here I will immediately give an example such as: the promotion, as a sector that has an extremely important future and has a shortage, you know on a global scale of cotton, and Bulgaria is one of the countries with extremely high quality cotton. Two countries in the world are the States and China, which produce cotton, but it has GMOs, while Bulgarian cotton, you know, is of extremely high quality. Another such industry, for which the counting technique will give us an analysis this is also the boubarism, mushroom production, the production of herbs, sectors that in regions such as Northwestern Bulgaria, Strandzha Sakar can give livelihood to people from what is currently lacking as a labor livelihood. Next, I would also like to say to the colleague who said that since 2003 was this census. No, this census in Bulgaria was traditional before 1989. Therefore there were analyses, and politics was in better development. With the last census of 2010, unfortunately, Bulgaria gave a category to the European Union. You know, according to Eurostat, there are already so-called agro-oligors with a land fund of over a million acres. I hope now, after this census, to see again what the size of the farms and the use of the land fund is. You know very well that in the new common agricultural policy and in the National Strategic Plan, 4% of the first pillar must necessarily be for young farmers. I ask: if a large part of the arable area, which, of course, also works for agriculture, is held by several, say, hundreds of privates, how will we implement this regulation? Most of the young farmers in Bulgaria, and there are some, believe me, who want to do farming, unfortunately, in many of the land there is no suitable arable land. Here I would like to say that when growing cereals, a large part of the privates and the tenants, in order to master the eurosubsidies, do not perform quality sowing. Here, Mrs. Taneva knows very well that what is written in the agricultural report may not be true. I'll set an example with sunflower, you know, with the seeding between 5% should be the seeding of the sunflower after the sunflower after eight years, and that's why we are taking away a lot of the fertile hummus horizon, taking subsidies, and future generations to account. I therefore believe that the Bill is extremely important. The agrostatistics we're going to collect is not just agrostatistics for statistics. It must give the Ministry of Agriculture and the State that policy for the future development of agricultural policy. Again, from this tribune, I call on the National Strategic Plan for us here to take a political decision, not a decision that will be taken by the administration, by the average echelon in the Ministry of Agriculture! They are the easiest to do, so there is the agricultural equipment and the attached inventory from this bill, because less will be involved in work and some activity. Of course, we from BSP for Bulgaria will support the Bill, but its future realization and its proper implementation is extremely important. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u36	I wasn't going to get a line, but since Mr. Georgiev directed the exhibition to me, I can't shut up. In the course of the debates and debates in the Commission, Mr. Georgiev, on the proposals made by Professor Bachvarova, we have joined, we will make a proposal between first and second reading for the inclusion of agricultural equipment, about the way to count farms from the newly used and own land. I make this remark only with the clarification that from this tribune, in order to give an assessment of the way the land is being processed, how to say, Mr. Georgiev, someone should have more than the necessary education, internship and long enough experience in the production itself to give an assessment of how the crop rotation is being done and what, provided that Bulgaria is one of the most competitive producers of various types of grain. Personally, I wouldn't afford it in spite of my fourteen years of experience. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Second line? I can't see. A hole? You have the floor, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Taneva! I have two higher educations, I graduated from the UNWE and the Agricultural University of Plovdiv. I have a master's degree at the Lesotechnic University of Plant Protection, so in terms of education I have one. [[Replications by MP Desislava Taneva.]] I think that people who also know about agriculture understand very well what I mean. That Bulgaria has become a monocultural country and that we export primary product without added value and we are a donor of Europe and of our neighbouring countries of primary agricultural product that is indisputable. From this tribune I've said that if the grain is what you're talking about [[Replications by MP Desislava Taneva]] For which we really are one of the leading countries, if we rework it in Bulgaria as added value, the price will increase as added value three times in feed, meat and meat processing products between 9 and 12 times if it goes to the dish of tourists 20 times! I will give you an example: in Croatia, Deputy Prime Minister do you know who the Minister of Agriculture is, because Croatia says: we are a tourist country and for us priority is agriculture, agriculture, not like us in Bulgaria! So, Mrs. Taneva, I believe that what you have quoted does not correspond to the truth. Bulgaria really has huge agricultural potential. I don't want to belittle the work of our grain producers. On the contrary, I want these grain producers to produce animal production, to produce in other accompanying sectors that have added value, so that Bulgaria can return to the agricultural product stage again on the agricultural market as it had before 1989. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. You have the floor, Mrs. Taneva. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you for the grandstand! I feel affected that Mr. Georgiev addressed me directly now on the backdrop procedure that I have quoted inaccurate data. I did not quote any data, I merely made a note that we cannot make speeches from this tribune that offend the literacy and achievements of Bulgarian farmers, which are not only in the grain part, one of the most competitive in Europe and the world. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u41	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u42	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Any other speeches, colleagues? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" In the way of driving! "]] I can't see. Mr. Rykov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the fulfilment of the requirements of Regulation 2018/1091 of the European Union and the need to adopt a Law on the Counting of Farms in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, in order to comply with the procedure for the development and adoption of regulations, an inquiry has been carried out on attitudes among small and medium-sized enterprises, among industry organisations and associations and farmers about their attitude towards the process for carrying out the forthcoming census. I would like to introduce you to the result of the preliminary study conducted in relation to which a survey of 147 farms meeting the requirements for small or medium-sized enterprises in the territory of the 28 administrative areas of the country has been conducted. For this purpose, a questionnaire was developed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which was also sent to industry organizations and associations of the It is found that 81% of 147 surveyed farmers and 95% of 20 branch organisations and associations believe that information on the number and structures of farms is needed. Strong support has also been taken into account with regard to the idea of maintaining a single statistical register of agricultural holdings in Bulgaria. This has supported 90% of farmers and 100% of industry organisations and associations. According to 61% of respondents, 1 September 2020 is an appropriate date for the start of the farm census. This date also finds 55% approval by industry organizations and associations. The proposal is not supported by 8% of small and medium-sized enterprises and 15% of the associations surveyed, while the others provide an answer: To the questions: Do you consider that the data you submit in the administrative registers of the State Fund..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With regard to the proposed methods of collecting information, the Commission would prefer 33% of the small and medium-sized enterprises surveyed to a personal interview with a paper questionnaire poller and 45% to provide data by the farmer using a web-based Internet application. It should be borne in mind that the questionnaire was carried out by electronic filling of the questionnaire sent and communication was carried out by e-mail. At the same time, many farmers do not provide an e-mail address for communication. Half of the industry organisations surveyed also prefer a web-based application to collect information. Within 30 minutes they would spend on completing the electronic questionnaire on web-based application 48% of farmers and 69% of industry organisations. To the question: Do you think that you should be informed in advance about the visit of the surveyor? The proposal to arrange this over the phone approves 81% of the farmers surveyed and 32% of the industry organisations and associations. Percentage of the answer to the question: Will pre-initiated data on crop areas of IACS and the number of animals of Vet IS in the statistical questionnaire make it easier to fill in the data?Suppose 88% of respondents and just as many representatives of organizations and associations give a positive response. The percentage response did not coincide again with the two groups surveyed "9% for small and medium-sized enterprises and 9% for organisations. The remaining 3% of respondents replied that they could not judge. To the question: In what time zones within the day is it appropriate for the respondents to visit your farm? As the most appropriate time zones for 37% of the surveyed small and medium-sized enterprises is after 12.00 to 14.00. With regard to the idea that before the actual interview is started, the poller will briefly get acquainted with the activities of the farm, asking additional and supplementary questions, 67% of the asked owners and 90% of the second group of surveyed organizations give a positive answer. The summary of the results of the respondents found that 66% of small and medium-sized enterprises and 40% of the sector organisations surveyed approved the proposal for telephone calls to be made adjustments to the given data in the event of inaccuracies. Both representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises and industry organisations have noted a response "Yes" to all proposed options on the organization of a media campaign for the order and manner of holding the census of agricultural holdings. Relatively equally distributed answers are given for all pointed options: mayors and mayors of local places to inform farmers through written information to the City Hall; to provide a brochure during an application for assistance; to broadcast and publish information on local media, television and radio, press and internet; to broadcast and publish information on national media, television and radio, press and internet; to send to the contact address of the agricultural holding a brochure with a short description for the conduct of the census. In view of the positive attitudes available and the consumer confidence in the results of the census in the usefulness of the information collected, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill currently under consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote an agricultural census bill in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 902-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. On behalf of a declaration group, Mr. Mareshki has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u45	Madam President, honourable Members! On 7 February 2019 Germany and France signed a historic treaty to create new fighter planes. This will be an overall air defense system of the newest generation. The aim declared by the creators of this treaty is that EU members are not dependent on US military equipment. It seems that this is the first step towards a common European defence platform. I believe that this fact will change not only the armies in Europe, but also the existence of a NATO pact that has needed change for years. As you know, even U.S. President Trump assumed that the United States could come out of the Atlantic Treaty. Another news story from the past week makes a strong impression. In order to come to this Franco-German agreement, the government in Berlin is refusing to buy new American fighters. The German Defence Minister said the project is open to all EU member states, and from Madrid immediately came the news that within months Spain will join. International experts have described what is happening as the largest industrial and political project in Europe. Where is Bulgaria in all this? We believe that Bulgaria should be among the first to join the project. In a few years, it will cover all Member States. Let's not get in line this time! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics (Bulgarian Parliamentary Group) offers the following plan: Firstly, by its decision, Parliament to give the government a mandate through the Foreign and Military Minister and to gather more information on this project and the procedure for including the Member States of the European Union in it. Secondly, to convene the National Security Advisory Council with the President, to which the said ministers to report on the topic and to discuss the procedure for inclusion in the Project and the benefits for Bulgaria. Thirdly, to discuss Bulgaria's ability to offer its capacity to produce future fighter planes and drones, we have extensive experience in the military industry, which in this case could lead us to quite other positions in the European Union. This will also make us a key partner in this project. We from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers believe that our participation in this project of the future is the right move at the moment. This is a strategic and patriotic policy because we are twice defending the country's interest once, with procurement, the second time, with participation in the most important military and political project at the moment in the European Union. Early inclusion with specific commitments will allow us to negotiate the price from a completely different position. To this end, however, we believe that the procedure for purchasing F-16 should be terminated. It makes no sense now to spend billions on unnecessary equipment instead of investing them in education, healthcare and dealing with the demographic crisis and other key policies for the survival of Bulgaria. In a few years, when everyone will talk and act for a common European defence, we will also have to buy European planes. What's going on? That we are now loading for the next 20 years both our children and our grandchildren to pay the Americans, and then we will again pay such a debt to the next generations. It is clear to everyone that this expenditure is currently impossible for poor Bulgaria. We demand that the estimated billions for the F-16 be used for a sharp increase in the standard of living of every Bulgarian, and in the meantime to be active participants in the project of the future initiated by the leaders in Europe, France and Germany. When each of our compatriots starts to earn a good living, to get a decent pension, when the economy is on a tangible rise, then there will be no problem predicting the costs of modern military equipment. But until then, we have another job to do, and it is to put people first and the planes later. This is the only current forward-looking management position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. We continue with the work on the agenda: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mr. Ivanov will introduce us. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will present to your attention: ? Report to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018, No 902-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2019. At a meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018, No 902-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2019. The meeting was attended by Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, and by the Public Procurement Agency: Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Employment and Methodology, and Veselina Atanasova, Head of the Strategic Documents and Cooperation Department. The bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova. In accordance with Decision No 933 of 21 December 2018 of the Council of Ministers on 21 December 2018 in Sofia, an amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017 was signed, extending the duration of the Agreement until 28 February 2019. The aim is to ensure the effective implementation of the planned activities and to achieve the expected results, providing sufficient time for review and implementation of the necessary adjustments in the Public Procurement System Assessment Report in Bulgaria, prepared by the experts of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The funding of the activities under the Agreement is provided within the framework of the project "View and evaluation of the public procurement system in Bulgaria" which is implemented with the financial support of the Operational Programme "Good management" co-financed by the European Union through the European Social Fund. The amendment is signed under the conditions of subsequent ratification and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Council of Ministers is proposing that the National Assembly ratify it by law. After the presentation and discussion of the bill was held with the following results:....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a Draft for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018, No 902-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u49	Thank you, Madam President. By Decision No 933 of 21 December 2018, the Council of Ministers approved the Draft Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017. It was the government that authorised the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency to conduct the negotiations and to sign the Amendment and agreed on its provisional application before its entry into force. An amendment to the Agreement for the provision of consultancy services between the Public Procurement Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017 was signed in Sofia on 21 December 2018, extending the duration of the Agreement until 28 February 2019. The aim is to ensure the effective implementation of the envisaged activities and the achievement of the envisaged results, ensuring sufficient time to review and make the necessary adjustments to the Public Procurement System Assessment Report in Bulgaria, prepared by the experts of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The overall implementation of the activities under the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Public Procurement Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will ensure an independent assessment of the current state of the public procurement system in the Republic of Bulgaria. This will make it possible to establish the effectiveness of the measures taken to implement the National Strategy for the Development of the Sector "Public Procurement" in the period 2014-2020, while also making the commitment requested by the Bulgarian side in reporting the implementation of the General Pre-condition 4 of the Partnership Agreement for the Republic of Bulgaria, which outlines the aid from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period mentioned, namely the 2014 "2020." In addition, country-specific recommendations made within the European Semester and the recommendation in the European Commission Report on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism of 27 January 2017, namely on public procurement, will be addressed. The financing of the activities under the Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is provided within the framework of the Project "Viewing and evaluation of the public procurement system in Bulgaria" which is implemented with financial support of the Operational Programme "Good Governance" which is co-financed by the European Union through the European Social Fund. That is why I expect us to accept the subsequent ratification. Thank you, Madam President, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u51	Madam President, honourable Members! What we are going to vote on today is the Law amending and supplementing an already ratified Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Public Procurement Agency on a very important project, which we supported on 13 December 2017. Listening here and the pre-speakers, and the Report, I pay attention to you not to be under the impression that we are yet to ratify such an agreement. No, colleagues, this is about ratifying a period that has already expired. The deadline for this Agreement expired on 31 December "This is what we have ratified. Today we have to ratify a deadline of 28 February, or a deadline that will expire in two weeks. We did not support this law of amendment and supplement because we believe it is not serious such an attitude, first, if the delay is on the part of the International Bank because the deadlines are therefore ratified in the National Assembly to be respected. Such a serious institution with such ease cannot ignore what the Bulgarian National Assembly has ratified. What was the problem if there was a need for this deadline, for the Agreement to be signed in time in November or October and ratification to be before the deadline expired? This frivolous attitude and understatement of the Bulgarian National Assembly, I think, should be emphasised and it is in this way shown by one vote against the other in order to preserve our dignity and honor. If the problems are in the Bulgarian administration, because by reading the Agreement, you will see that the Bank guarantees that it will meet the deadlines provided that the client If the problem is on the part of the Agency, let this be said and explained why such a serious agency does not comply with these deadlines and does not implement such an important project, which costly Euros? After all, these are topics and problems that we are debating very often, and problems that, the earlier they are exported, the better and faster it can be reacted and, of course, many vices will be removed throughout this process. My fellow Members, I urge you not to support it. It is clear that the Agreement will be concluded, it is paid for most of it. The report, as I understand it, is presented, but the attitude of the partner country under this treaty, under this Agreement, namely the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is humiliating and once again an institution views the Bulgarian National Assembly, as we have many times said, as a rubber seal. Thank you. We will not support this proposal. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines to his statement? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, thank you for the clarification you have made on the proposed ratification. Once again, it becomes clear that in this National Assembly by noon we are adopting laws, and in the afternoon we are changing the deadlines of those who must enter into force or who have expired. That is, we continue the practice of one expired period with a change of decision or a law to ratify. However, my request is to explain in these expired deadlines, in this case, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has not done its job for the period 31 December 2018, if we do not ratify this Agreement, will they owe any penalty? Because here we are entering a model, which we have been talking about for several weeks, when institutions, closing their eyes, are missing some deadlines, and in this case, colleagues want these deadlines to be approved at the moment by a decision of the National Assembly, by law, which means will the state suffer damage from continuing the term or will not suffer such damage? I was as common as possible, if I may say so, in the message I made. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Turnovalliski, your speech has its reasons, you also pointed it out in the Commission. I think we were discussing at the time with both the Ministry of Finance and the Public Procurement Agency exactly what this extension of the period requires, and it is only important for me to affect the motive that the financial parameters of the Agreement do not change. This leads to a purely administrative period, which is anyway to receive a prepared report. We received quite a detailed explanation from the head of the Public Procurement Agency, precisely conducted additional interviews by the specialists of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and receipt in time. Then she explained in detail when, on which date the first and second draft were received. This is like an audit report on which there are, respectively, adjustments in the clarification of points and circumstances that have not been finalised, and anyway, there is a subsequent translation, as far as we understand in the discussion we had in the Committee on Budget and Finance. I therefore call on you to reconsider your decision and to support the proposed ratification of the extension, which, again, is not subject to any financial correction and does not result in any financial means to be paid further by either the Agency or the Ministry of Finance or the Bulgarian State. However, it is about a report which is also funded under the Operational Programme "Good governance" by the European Union through the European Social Fund, so I think that this ratification is really justified here and it did not need to raise such a serious discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Turnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u57	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, that in this ratification, there are no financial changes in this proposal, I just want to stress that sometimes the deadlines are very important and the delay leads to financial losses, and the later I said it in my speech, entered into force and we get the reports, because after these reports there will undoubtedly be changes in legislation. This has already been highlighted by a member of the Council of Ministers. Some of the ministers said that amendments to the Public Procurement Act are being prepared based on these reports, which have been received so far, and the information it has, so the deadline is very important and it very often leads to financial corrections. Dear Mr. Svilenski, no, there are no financial penalties in the Agreement for failure to comply with the Project in time. Neither the bank nor the Agency shall provide information if it does not fulfil its obligations to provide information. Surely this project is very important. Its failure in time, I stress again, of course, also affecting our work, because on the basis of these reports there will also be requests for legislative changes. Where such serious institutions as the International Bank and as the Public Procurement Agency do not meet deadlines and do not extend deadlines according to the requirements of the Law, I believe that this is vicious. Regarding why and what will happen if we do not ratify. This ratification is done on the basis of art. 105, para. 1 and 4 of the Constitution and on the basis of art. 118 of our Rules of Procedure must make such ratification under this type of treaty. So there will be no financial sanctions, either, but it will be a sign to, in our case, partner, the International Bank, for its non-serious attitude towards this so important project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u58	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! The topic of public procurement is, of course, very sensitive to the Bulgarian society. Trust in this system is low, and public interest is enormous. The largest resource passes precisely through this system of public ones. The consulting service we are discussing today aims to provide a review and evaluation of the public procurement system in Bulgaria, the consulting service is presented by an extremely authoritative institution. Most importantly, the European Union is one of the most authentic institutions in the world. In the reasons for the bill, you claim that an independent external assessment of the current state of the public procurement system will be ensured by extending the consulting service. In this context, I am extremely curious how these authority institutions look at the fact that while the consulting service acts and spends money on European taxpayers, there is a billion and 350 million in Bulgaria. lv. without a public procurement to build infrastructure to power-acquainted companies, such as there are doubts in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to his statement. Are there any other statements? Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! I took the floor because the subject obviously provoked an interesting debate. In addition, it concerns an outstanding topic, as said by colleague Bozhankov, concerning the effectiveness of the public procurement process in our country. Therefore, I would like to remind briefly of several key elements of this agreement, which has been referred to, the amendment to which we should ratify today, namely: the amendment to the Agreement on the provision of a consulting service between the Public Procurement Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was concluded on 2 November 2017, and the amendment signed on 21 December 2018. What this extension of the deadline has imposed, I think, has been mentioned, but I will make a few more clarifications. On the one hand, it is a really complex, complex service, which includes a comprehensive review of the public procurement system in Bulgaria. It includes not one and two subjects. You know all that contracting entities that are public contracting entities, sectoral contracting entities, different other organisations include different state institutions such as the Public Procurement Agency, the State Financial Inspection Agency, the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Supreme Administrative Court and many other entities involved in this process. All of this I am enumerating to explain and remind the complexity of the expertise that will be carried out. I cannot agree that this expertise has not been carried out in time. However, I remind you that the whole shaping and adoption of the final reports, as said by my colleague Ivanov, includes different stages, which invariably require coordination at expert level, at different texts from the reports, explaining certain terms. Last but not least, of course, and the translation of this big document, which we will receive and which will really be extremely important for the effectiveness of the entire public procurement process, so important for the spending of public resources in Bulgaria. Indeed, the subject is very important as for our society, the subject is important for experts, the subject is important at all for the efficiency of public spending. I am sure that you will all agree with me that what we basically require from power and from the public procurement system is to ensure efficiency, efficiency, cost economy and, of course, legality. I am sure, and because of the very frequent change of the Law, the many changes in the years we are all convinced that we need a comprehensive review of this system. As I said earlier, in addition to covering all stakeholders in this process, it covers collection, processing, analysis of an extremely large number, volume of information, coordination with many stakeholders, participants in the process, whether in the form of a contracting entity or in the form of an institution carrying out some kind of control in this process. Again, I say: it is extremely important. What is happening at the moment has already been said: it does not concern an increase in financial resources. The only thing required today is to ratify an extension. It is necessary for various technical reasons which require the coordination of such a complex and comprehensive process. Again, to remind what has been said that as a result of this commitment, which will be implemented, recommendations will be addressed more than once to Bulgaria with regard to the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism and within the European semester. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u62	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, first of all, thank you for the detailed explanation of why this consulting project is needed, which you want us to ratify and extend its duration. In the end, when corruption in public procurement has become the norm of the country's governance in Bulgaria, believe me, any advisory agreement to conclude whatever document we receive, whatever advice from these experts of the Bank to obtain, it ultimately makes no sense, since the thinking of the government of the state is related only to improper absorption of public funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Second line, Mr. Turnover, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u65	Madam President, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, you have explained again how important this project is, its realization, the reports we will receive. We've heard that a few times. In my speech, I said: when the Agreement was ratified, we supported it. Then we figured out why it's important, how important it is. We all know it's very important, and the colleagues said it. It's just that we're talking about a deadline here. You explained that it was a very complicated service. But this service is done by experts?! Ms. Ilieva, when they concluded this Agreement, these experts, if they were experts, knew how complex the service was and had to set the relevant deadlines. It is in all normal actions, in all normal projects, contracts that are concluded if the blame is in the consultant or in the International Bank. If the problem is the other thing you said that if you saw, besides the Agency, there were still a bunch of institutions tied up, this could not be a problem for the National Assembly. This is again a problem of negotiation. If really in this negotiation, as you said, were involved such good experts, they should have foreseen it. This is their obligation. That is why this Agreement is concluded, so it has deadlines, so it has a price, and it is not small. Finally, did you see it for technical reasons?! No, there are not technically the reasons for the EUR 750,000 is a very serious amount and there is no way for technical reasons to change something. There was a letter from the World Bank, that was said in the Commission. But I didn't read this letter, and you probably didn't read it, either?! I don't know who saw him. I don't know what the demands are, and what are the grounds of the Bank?! Either way, it's not serious the way it works. It does not resemble the World Bank, nor does it resemble the Agency, but even less us, in the National Assembly, to be subjected to this humiliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Third line, Mr. Alexander Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, my reply to you is as follows: you forgot to clarify, and I forgot to remind my colleagues in my previous speech, especially the previous financial dimension, which he said was 750 thousand. The amount of funds that will be paid out by the Operational Programme for Cooperation, namely that these funds have been negotiated and reduced repeatedly from their original amount. Also, Mrs. Ilieva, you as an auditor could explain to your colleagues on the left and to the colleague who made a remark before me that in such a procedure you can really come up with new needs for interviews. And when the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development team conducts the relevant interviews and procedures on which it has undertaken the commitment, there may indeed be small temporary delays that materialise in the current request for ratification and for a two-month extension. I would also like to remind you that the request to extend the verification was taken over from last year. In any case, the Public Procurement Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development have assessed this delay and this possibility and have therefore taken subsequent steps, namely to examine the current verification, which has been clarified on both the grounds of the importer and on the comments that we made in the Committee on Budget and Finance, that it is necessary both under Constitution and under our Rules of Procedure. Therefore, let us sum up and say, once again, to stress that this does not lead to a financial penalty for Bulgaria, it is once again pointed out that the funds coming for this report are under operational programme. I think that we have turned the debate on the subject that colleagues have tried to change into something else related to governance, which is their outright feature. I think the debate here has run out, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Ilieva, try to answer the three lines that were addressed to you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow Members, the activity in this House shows that it is indeed an interesting and important topic for all of us. I'll try briefly to respond to everyone. Dear Mr. Prodanov, I am sorry that you tried to use the stands in this important context to make suggestions again related to the issues of corruption. Unfortunately, we still don't have a thinking procedure in the Rules, so I'm not going to take any further. Dear Mr. Turnovalyski, yes, I think we are of the same opinion on how important this agreement is, important for the effectiveness of the public procurement system in Bulgaria. I think none of us doubt that. It has been repeatedly said that there is no financial dimension in the case of ratification of the Agreement. The colleague Ivanov stressed that the first steps for signing this amendment agreement were made in December. Last but not least, I would like to say that much more important or perhaps the most important of this award, from this agreement is the result we will receive and its impact on our public procurement system. Whether this will happen a month earlier or a month later, it is important what will be the effect on public spending, on the way they spend, on the stacking of institutions and on achieving the results of all taxpayers' funds. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the Amendment to the Agreement on the Provision of Consulting Services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018, No 902-02-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2019. They voted 145 MPs: 95, Against 41, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Will there be a procedure? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u71	Dear Madam President, I would like to make a procedural proposal: on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the newly adopted Draft for ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to be voted on today at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u72	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal that has just been made. Vote 139 MPs: 94 against 35, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I ask you to present the bill that we need to vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u73	Thank you, Madam President. "I'm going to on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018. A single member. Ratiated the amendment of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018 in Sofia. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-13.u74	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the second reading of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Public Procurement Agency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2 November 2017, signed on 21 December 2018, with a single member presented by Mr. Ivanov. Vote 134 MPs: 89, against 40, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. With this, honourable Members, we have finished our work for today. Tomorrow we continue with the items on the agenda. Regular meeting at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
