ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft decision for the announcement of the town of Veliko Tarnovo for the Historical and Spiritual Capital of Bulgaria. Importers are Stanislava Stoyanova, Claudia Gancheva, Stanislav Stoyanov, Milen Mihov and Simeon Simeonov on 4 April 2019 and I propose that she become the first point for today's plenary session and that the previous point be the second. Please, voting mode. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Message: On 10 April 2019 the National Assembly received a Report on the degree of implementation of the policies and defence programmes of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army in 2018, submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report, together with the annexes to it containing classified information, is located in the register of the national classified information of the National Assembly, Department of Information Security. The letters of the President of the National Assembly shall inform the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we're going to point one: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO STATEMENT A CITY OF GREAT TROUBLE FOR THE BULGERY AND SPIRIT STAND. The Report of the Committee on Culture and Media will introduce us to Mr. Budinov. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Decision for the Announcement of Veliko Tarnovo for the Historical and Spiritual Capital of Bulgaria and No 954-02-17, submitted by Stanislava Stoyanova, Claudia Gancheva, Stanislav Stoyanov, Milen Mihov and Simeon Simeonov on 4 April 2019. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 11 April 2019, a draft decision for the proclamation of Veliko Tarnovo for the historical and spiritual capital of Bulgaria was discussed, No 954-02-17, submitted by Stanislava Stoyanova, Claudia Gancheva, Stanislav Stoyanov, Milen Mihov and Simeon Simeonov on 4 April 2019. The draft decision was presented by the MP Ms. Stanislava Stoyanova. The proposal for the announcement of Veliko Tarnovo for the Historical and Spiritual Capital of Bulgaria is by the Initiative Committee of the Great-Turnovo public and is supported by the Decision of the Municipal Council of Veliko Tarnovo, No 1420 of 28 March 2019. In their motives, importers present the city as a key not only for Bulgarian and European history, but also for Bulgarian identity. The draft decision received an opinion from the Ministry of Culture recommending public consultation. During the discussion the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Toma Bikov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Diana Savateva expressed their opinion that they generally support the project. On the questions asked Ms. Stanislava Stoyanova answered and added that the proposed project is a symbolic gesture to Veliko Tarnovo on the eve of the 140th anniversary of the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution and there will be no other administrative and financial consequences. After the discussion, the MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, with 11 votes for the Council, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to announce the town of Veliko Tarnovo for the Historical and Spiritual Capital of Bulgaria. No 954-02-17, submitted by Stanislava Stoyanova, Clavdiya Gancheva, Stanislav Stoyanov, Milen Mihov and Simeon Simeonov on 4 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Colleagues, motives? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will present to you the reasons for this Decision to the Project. The initiative for the announcement of Veliko Tarnovo for the Historical and Spiritual Capital of Bulgaria was adopted by the Initiative Committee, representing the Grand-Turnovo public, supported by a full majority of the Municipal Council of Veliko Tarnovo, by Decision No 1420 of 28 March 2019. In the spiritual presentations of the Bulgarians for seven centuries from 1186 to 1879, Tarnovo is the only possible Bulgarian capital. Moreover, by the beginning of the 19th century, the city was also the eternal capital, as the historical memory of Pliska, Veliki Preslav and Ohrid was greatly faded. In the minds and works of the leading minds of the nation of XVIII, XIX century "Paisii Hilendarski, Sophronius Vrachanski, Georgi Rakovski, Vasil Levski, Luben Karavelov, Hristo Botev, the royal city of Aseevtsi is the symbol of the thirsted freedom. Veliko Tarnovo is inextricably linked to the depths of the history of our lands. Since the 13th century BC on the territory of the city there has been a Thracian settlement that continued its life in the Roman era, and during the Middle Ages Tarnovo is the successor of Nicopolis ad Istrum. Tarnovo adopted its name during the First Bulgarian Kingdom and in this period even took an important place in the system of government. It is believed that back in the IXth "X" century there were built the rulerial residences. At the end of the 12th century, the Byzantium crisis strengthened the anti-Byzantine tendencies, which were skilfully guided by the Tarnovo boyars, the brothers Theodor (Peter) and John Asen, related genericly to the old Bulgarian aristocracy. In the spring of 1186, at the consecration of the Tarnovo church built by Asenovtsi, St. Dimitar, the older brother Theodore was proclaimed the Bulgarian king under the name Peter. According to the contemporaries, Tarnovo is the most upbuilding and most beautiful of the cities of Hemus, which predestined his choice as capital, and even the old glory of Veliki Preslav is not able to prevail over the undisputed strategic and geopolitical advantages of Tarnovo. In XII, the capital city was a crowded city with a population, comparable to that of most European capitals of that era, with highly developed urban life, with economics, with domestic and international trade. One of the medieval institutions with which Tarnovo remains in the history of the whole Christian world is the Tarnovo Patriarchate. The foundations of this leading spiritual institution are laid with the uprising of Peter and Asen when the monk Vasily was declared a Bulgarian archbishop. The great warrior and diplomat King Kaloyan achieved a church union with Rome on 7 November 1204. In the case of Pope Inokentiy III Kaloyan and Vasiliy are respectively called The Bulgarian Church received the status of Orthodox Patriarchate in 1235 thanks to Tsar Ivan Asen II. The Tarnovo Patriarchate is the highest achievement in the ecclesiastical history of the Bulgarians and is recognized by all the ancient Christian Patriarchates of Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem. Her first spiritual head is Ivan Asen II monk Joakim I. The church throne in Tarnovo is practically second in importance in the Orthodox community. The Bulgarian example also has its impact on the church life of other Orthodox countries, especially on Serbia and Moscow Russia. The capital Tarnovgrad is a powerful factor in the cultural processes in Bulgaria and in Orthodox Europe. The Tarnovo Book School, especially in the time of the great writer and spiritual leader Patriarch Evtimiy, has a powerful civilization influence on the Orthodox world and, above all, on the birthing new great power of Moscow Russia. At the end of the XIV and the beginning of the 15th century, a number of spiritual leaders were heads of the churches in Russia, Lithuania, Moldova, Vlachija, Serbia, related to the capital of Tarnovo and the Turnovo spiritual and cultural traditions. In the period of Ottoman rule, Tarnovo, until recently a patriarchal city, became the center of one of the largest prestigious Metropolitan bishops of the Ecumenical Patriarchate and by no means six Turnovo Metropolitans occupied the patriarchal throne. For the Bulgarians the town keeps its charm of the capital and it is not for a reason the center of the First The role of Tarnovo in the age of national revival is remarkable. It is there that the people's struggle for an independent Bulgarian church begins. In the uprisings in 1875 and 1876, Tarnovo was the center of the First Revolutionary District. After the Liberation in Veliko Tarnovo the Constitutional Assembly was called in 1879, called to revive the political life of Bulgaria. During the debates then the politician and MP Dragan Tsankov exclaims: The Constitution adopted by the Constitutional Assembly remains for the next generations of Bulgarians, and the most important acts of the new Bulgarian state were invariably announced in Tarnovo, including Alexander Batenberg's Manifest for the United of the Principality of Bulgaria with Eastern Rumelia on 6 September 1885 and the declaration of Bulgarian independence by King Ferdinand on 22 September 1908. Today Veliko Tarnovo is a unique city with its over 1500 real monuments of culture, two fortresses with huge area, numerous museum sites. With its incredible geographical location and exceptional architecture, with its huge variety of cultural events, festivals, concerts and various attractions, with its inspiring atmosphere Veliko Tarnovo is an attractive tourist and cultural center, a place where people from all over the world meet. Veliko Tarnovo is also a very important educational center. Higher and medium-sized schools in the old capital are among the country's leading schools. Veliko Tarnovo is one of the ancient cities, both of its own and of foreigners, represents the spirit of Bulgaria, its deep roots and its path to the future. Veliko Tarnovo has always been a key part not only of Bulgarian and European history but also of Bulgarian identity. We, the MPs from Veliko Tarnovo, express our conviction that the time has come for the status of the historical and spiritual capital of Bulgaria, which Veliko Tarnovo has always held in the opinion of the broad public strata from all parts of our country, to be officially confirmed and legitimized by the stands of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. I call on you to take this decision as a moral gesture on the eve of the celebrations on the occasion of 140 years since the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here's your speech, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's proposal for a Decision is quite significant, I am even tempted to say It has not only a symbolic character, it also has a very important sign of state creative continuity. The town of Veliko Tarnovo is a winner of this millennial state tradition, beginning from the time of the founding of the Bulgarian state south of the Danube. The Church of St. 40 martyrs and the inscriptions of Khan Omurtag there, the Second Bulgarian Statehood and the revival of modern Bulgarian statehood were gathered in Veliko Tarnovo. Today we are all MPs here from the Forty-fourth ordinary National Assembly and this number is directly related to Veliko Tarnovo. Under the Constitution adopted in Tarnovo, parliamentaryism began in Bulgaria with the First Great National Assembly on 17 April 1879, again in Veliko Tarnovo, where the first Bulgarian leader was elected. Since then, the National Assembly, the Bulgarian Parliament, follows a tradition based on the Tarnovo Constitution. I have no doubt that this Decision will be supported by absolute agreement, but it also has a very important issue, a very important functional issue. In the reasons was read part of the Decision of the Constitutional Assembly, taken on 22 March, in the old style of 3 April 1879, in which the Decision defines the capital, or capitals, of the reborn Bulgarian statehood. This decision is not part of the Tarnovo Constitution. It remains only in the minutes of the Constitutional Assembly, but has the power of constitutional text. It is in force, we can say, even after the time of the Tarnovo Constitution. This decision is as follows: "We have two capitals: Sofia "Administrative, and Tarnovo " Historically. " The next sentence is very important, which is part of the Decision: In the first resident the prince, in the second one takes the oath. " Thus is determined by the Resolution of the Constitutional Assembly the place of Veliko Tarnovo as the source of the supreme power in the state, namely the Tarnovo Constitution. It is no coincidence that all the great people's meetings meet in Veliko Tarnovo, with few exceptions, until the time of action of the Tarnovo Constitution. Moreover, in 1990 the Seventh Grand National Assembly was opened in Veliko Tarnovo as a symbol and sign of this continuity, of this state-owned idea and role of Veliko Tarnovo. Today we will take this decision and on Tuesday for the second time after 1990 the Bulgarian Parliament will meet there in Veliko Tarnovo. It is time to ask ourselves: should we not, following this state tradition, revive the supreme authority of the state, such as our state, with parliamentary rule, namely the Bulgarian Parliament in an old, old tradition to take an oath again in Veliko Tarnovo, in those sacred places where the great Bulgarian empire took place and functioned? Is this decision of the builders of modern Bulgaria not mandatory for us too?! That is why I put this idea before all of you, before the whole society and before all responsible Bulgarian factors with a call: let's revive this old Bulgarian tradition and let's put the legislative and regulatory conditions so that every new Bulgarian Parliament will go in its path, taking an oath at the place where the builders of contemporary Bulgaria have recorded the foundations of Bulgarian democracy! I think that every people's representative, swearing under the walls of Tsarvets, in the temple.Holy 40 martyrs, sitting at the banks, where the people who built the Bulgarian statehood stood, will at least accept a little from this high responsibility and from those bright examples that left us our predecessors. I call on you to support the decision! With a good and festive feeling I would love to see you in Veliko Tarnovo on Tuesday. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u7	Thank you, Professor Mihov. I would also like everyone to be in Veliko Tarnovo. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! After this inspired speech by colleague Milen Mihov, I will hardly find strong words to defend the thesis, but I am not going out for this, but I want to say something for the record. Every decision of the National Assembly within the meaning of the Bulgarian legislation becomes a law. What we accept is that our fellow importers say that there will be no other consequences: neither financial, political, nor economic, whatsoever, are, in part, right, because, after this Decision has been adopted, we cannot make a law for the old Bulgarian capitals in which they are equal. There must be a special clause in this matter. As I recall, the initiative of GERB, expressed by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, had exactly this idea. With one of my colleagues from GERB, I have developed such a law. It stands and yet one day we will submit it to the National Assembly with the signatures of importers from both parties. The point is that in the Bulgarian legislation there is no such concept and the opinion of the Ministry in the consultation was the same. I'm not sure that's why I'm saying that it's on the record that no other claims will be made. I'll tell you why. Because splashers will say, "Okay, and we'll be the first? We're ahead of all of you. How are you going to be in front of us and we're going back?............................................... We are the Golden Age of Simeon! Bulgaria has never reached this level of culture, as it was with Tsar Simeon, and what is it with us back again?............................................... These are small local ambitions and so on, because we are all Bulgarians and these capitals are our capitals. One day Vidin will definitely join them, I think, and say a little again in this circle of concepts, why not Ohrid, as IMRO colleagues say?! [[Noise and lines.]] However, the point is that the protocol must remain such considerations and I will vote on this law. [[Noise and lines.]] Plovdiv's silence there, they tend a little towards Alexander Macedonian. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] And this must remain because, as we begin to work this law for the old Bulgarian capitals, this will come to the surface. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u9	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I'll read you the draft decision: Project! DECISION announcing the town of Veliko Tarnovo for the historic and spiritual capital of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing Veliko Tarnovo as the historic and spiritual capital of Bulgaria. Importers are Stanislava Stoyanova, Claudia Gancheva, Stanislav Stoyanov, Associate Professor Milen Mihov and Simeon Simeonov. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR GUARDS IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u10	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov and Biljana Stoykova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u11	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u12	Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-01-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019, adopted on the first vote on 20 March 2019. The second vote. The Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented by the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u14	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 after the words of the Bulgarian citizen. The meaning of this law is added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words which are of maintenance and the comma in front of them shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new § 1 and the version of § 1, which shall become § 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u16	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. Article 1 is inserted in Chapter 1. 7b: Art. 7b. (1) The right of residence of alien children up to the age of 18 shall be granted after the consent of the parents. Where there is no general consent of the parents, the dispute between them shall be settled by the district court of residence of the child. (2) The proceedings before the court under para. 1 starts at the request of one of the parents. The court shall hear the other parent unless it appears without due cause. The Court may also, on its own initiative, collect evidence. (3) In the cases under para. 2 In each case the court shall notify the Department of Social Assistance at the place of residence of the child and the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code shall apply to the notification. (4) The Social Assistance Department shall provide an opinion to the court that contains: assessment of the child's desires and feelings; the physical, mental and emotional needs of the child; the danger or harm caused to the child or likely to be caused; the ability of the parents to care for him; the consequences that will occur for the child in the event of change of circumstances; other circumstances relevant to the child. (5) The Court shall give a decision replacing the missing consent of one of the parents or leaving the request without respect. The Court of Justice may allow the preliminary execution of the decision. The decision of the court shall be subject to appeal under the Civil Procedure Code. (6) In the event of the initiation of a procedure for granting a right of residence, the same shall be suspended until the court has given its final ruling on the application under para. 2. (7) Upon receipt of the final decision of the Court of Justice, the Directorate of Migration, Department/sectors/groups of the Ministry of Interior shall decide on granting the right of residence by checking the other documents and circumstances relating to the legal status of the child.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u17	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2, which shall become § 3. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall be § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be § 6. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. are representatives of a foreign trade company with registered, after verification and evaluation of documents submitted, on economic activity and tax orderability of the foreign company for a period of two years prior to the registration of the representation, as well as of documents concerning its planned activities, by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Commercial Representation in the Republic of Bulgaria; a permit for continued residence may receive no more than three representatives for each foreign trade company; the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry shall inform the Directorate of the change in the circumstances of the registration of the representation; (b) c. 13 a comma shall be placed after the words "Sustainable residence' and added as well as to a foreigner who has received international protection. (c) create a t. 22: "22." are members of the family of a foreigner with asylum, temporary protection or humanitarian status where documents certifying family ties and the right to maintenance are recognised or admitted to implementation under the Bulgarian legislation; 2. In para. 3 sentences are created second, third and fourth: "In cases of legal and factual complexity and the need to provide additional documents and information, this period may be extended by another month. The foreigner shall be notified in writing upon an extension of the period, indicating that he should provide the necessary documents and information within 14 days of receipt of the letter. Where the additional documents and information are not provided within that period, the procedure for granting a permit for continued residence shall be terminated and the application shall not be re-examined.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, which shall become 4, 5 and 6, respectively, and the version of paragraph 6, which shall become paragraph 7 of the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. The second sentence is amended as follows: "When the term of the contract for the development of a research project is shorter than one year, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract.' 2. In para. 5 the words "sector/group' are replaced by "sector/sector/group'. 3. In para. The 13th sentence of the first sentence is amended as follows: The permit for a long stay for up to 9 months may also be granted a foreigner who, within 7 working days after the completion of a research project, has submitted an application to the Employment Agency for registration as a job seeker under the Employment Promotion Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24o, para. 3 the words "sector/group' are replaced by "sector/sector/group'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u21	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the version of § 7, which becomes § 8 of the Commission Report; the texts of the importer of paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 11, which become 9, 10, 11 and 12 respectively; and the version of § 12, which becomes § 13 of the Commission Report. Vote 72 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u22	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 3 after the word "Children" is added to the Bulgarian citizen or "Children." 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The application for a permanent residence permit shall be submitted in person to the Directorate of Migration or to the Sector/group of the Ministry of Interior. The Director of the Directorate of Migration shall take a decision on the application within two months of its submission and, in the case of legal and factual complexity and the need to submit additional documents, the period may be extended by another two months. The authorisation shall be issued in accordance with the rules of application of the law. 3. The creation of para. 6: The permit for permanent residence may not be granted to foreigners who have received a permit for long stay on the basis of art. 28a, except where a permit has been granted to foreigners over 18 years of age for a long stay for humanitarian reasons. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 2 the words..25b.. are The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33k the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 5 sentence second words under para. The first subparagraph is replaced by the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the single format of residence permits for third-country nationals with a period of validity up to the period of the initial period of validity of the residence permit issued. 2. In para. 6 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u23	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 13, which shall become § 14 of the Commission Report, the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15, the creation of a new § 16, the text of the importer of § 15, which shall become § 17, and the version of § 16, which shall become No 18 of the Commission Report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 25b, 25c 25c The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments: 1. point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. The school is an institution within the meaning of art. 25, para. 1 of the Preschool and School Education Act, which participates in a program for student exchange or educational project. 2. point 20 is amended as follows: It's 20. "Instructions of housing' are documents as follows: (a) a deed or other document proving the ownership or use of the property; (b) a declaration by the owner of a residence address provided; if the declaration is not submitted personally by the owner or by a person authorised by him, it should be notarised.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u25	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19, the new § 20, the text of the importer of § 18 and 19 which shall become § 21 and 22 respectively, and the version of § 20, which shall become § 23 of the Commission Report. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u26	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. (1) The citizens of the United Kingdom and the members of their families who, on the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, have entered and reside legally in the Republic of Bulgaria or hold a valid residence document issued by the Republic of Bulgaria, may, by 31 December 2020, submit a personal application to the Directorate for Migration or to the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of a residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria for which a temporary residence certificate is issued to them without delay. The application shall be accompanied by the necessary documents under the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (2) On the persons referred to in para. 1 which does not pose a threat to national security or public order, a residence permit shall be issued within one month of the date of application under the terms of the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria to the citizens of the European Union and their family members. (3) The members of the family of a UK citizen who has received a residence permit under para. 2 which, on the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, have acquired the quality of a family member of a UK citizen, but who on that day do not reside in the Republic of Bulgaria, may, by 29 March 2022, submit a personal application to the Department of Migration or to the Regional Office of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of a residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria for which a temporary residence certificate is issued to them without delay. The application shall be accompanied by the necessary documents under the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (4) The members of the family of a UK citizen who has received a residence permit under para. 2 which have acquired the quality of a family member of a UK citizen during the period between the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and 31 December 2020, may, by 31 December 2020, submit a personal application to the Directorate of Migration or to the Regional Office of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of a residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria for which a temporary residence certificate is issued to them without delay. The application shall be accompanied by the necessary documents under the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (5) A citizen of the United Kingdom who is a member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen who has acquired this quality by the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union may, by 29 March 2022, submit a personal application to the Directorate of Migration or to the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of a residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria for which a temporary residence certificate is issued to him without delay. The application shall be accompanied by the necessary documents under the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (6) On the persons referred to in para. 3 - 5 which does not pose a threat to national security or public order, a residence permit shall be issued within one month of the date of submission of the application under the terms of the Act on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria to the citizens of the European Union and their family members. (7) The persons under para. 3 - 5 can enter the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with a valid passport and visa, where required. The visa shall be issued under the terms and conditions of art. 4 of the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (8) The State Agency shall provide a written opinion within 7 days of receipt of the application under para. 1 and para. 3... 5........................................................................... (9) The application under para. 1 and para. 3 " 5" is based on a model established by the Minister of Interior's order. (10) The residence permit under para. 1 and para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the case of para. 5 is celebrated on the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. (11) The fee to be collected for issuing the residence permits under para. 1 and para. 3. 5 is the same which is collected for issuing a card for the residence of a member of the family of a Union citizen (EU citizen) of a long-term or permanent resident member of a family of an EU citizen who is not an EU citizen and who has exercised his right to free movement. (12) When the persons under para. 1 and para. 3 "5" does not meet the conditions of para. 2 under para 2 respectively. 6, the authorities of the Directorate of Migration and the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior shall refuse to grant a residence permit. (13) Refusal under para. 12 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (14) The children of a UK citizen who received a residence permit under para. 2, born between the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and 31 December 2022, a residence permit shall be issued under the terms of the Act on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria to the citizens of the European Union and their family members.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u27	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the subdivision as proposed by the importer and the version of § 21, which shall take place, respectively, § 24 of the Commission Report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In the title, the words "not Bulgarian citizens" and the comma before and after them are deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 para. 1 is amended as This law lays down the terms and conditions for the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and of the members of their families, as well as of the family members of a Bulgarian citizen who are citizens of the European Union and who have exercised their right to free movement. Art. 2 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The person referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be the person referred to in Article 1 (1). 9a and 10a submit an application to the Directorate of Migration (MI), the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Interior or the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior for the issue of a residence permit pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of the residence permits of third-country nationals (OB, L 157/1 of 15 June 2002) or on a prolonged residence card of a family member of a Union citizen for whom a temporary certificate is issued without delay. (b) in para. 6 the word "sacrifice' is replaced by "sacrifice'. 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 12a: Art. 12a. (1) The persons referred to in art. 9a and 10 may refuse the issue of residence documents on the basis of data giving reasons to conclude that marriage or actual cohabitation is concluded only for the purpose of circumventing the rules governing the free movement of citizens of the European Union and members of their families. (2) The data under para. 1 may be established by official means, following verification of documents submitted or by checks and investigations carried out by other state authorities, as well as by interviews conducted by officers of the Directorate of Migration............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (3) Refusal under para. 1 is subject to challenge under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 after the word "supplier', a comma is added and a residence permit is added. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words "who is a citizen of the European Union" a member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen who is a citizen of the European Union and who has exercised his right to free movement is added; (b) in para. The 5th sentence first after the words "European Union citizen" is added a member of the family of a Bulgarian citizen who is a citizen of the European Union and has exercised his right to free movement. 7. Article 20a is amended as follows: Art. 20a. (1) To the citizens of the European Union and to the members of their families who are citizens of the European Union, to the nationals of the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation and to the members of their families who are nationals of the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation, at their express request, certificates of residence on a card carrier may also be issued. (2) For the verification of the address of residence contained in the residence certificate issued on a card carrier, the persons under para. 1 submit one of the following documents: 1. a document of ownership or other document proving the ownership or use of the property; 2. a declaration by the owner of a given residence address; if the declaration is not submitted personally by the owner or by a person authorised by him, it should be signed with a notary certification of the signature; 3. an accommodation order when the person is accommodated in a state or municipal dwelling. 8. In § 1, t. 1 of the additional provision: (a) in point......................................................................................... documents proving the circumstances of their actual cohabitation, with the exception of a written statement from the person (s); (b) in point (b) the words (b) the non-Bulgarian citizen (s) and the comma in front of them shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u29	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 22, which shall become § 25 of the Commission Report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 26, in c. 1 after the word "Safety" "Safety" is added "Safety," L 132/11 of 29 May 2010.), as in c. 5 words are deleted from ZUB. 9 concerning Art. 95a, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council): OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u31	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 26 with the addition made. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 3 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 4 and 5 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2: (aa) create t. 1b and 1c: 1b. permit for residence of a long-stay member of a family of a Bulgarian citizen with the mark of a member of a family of a Bulgarian citizen and issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year; the document shall be issued to persons who have received the right to long stay on the grounds of art. 24, para. 1, t. 18 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 1c. a permit for residence of a long-stayed foreigner in the Republic of Bulgaria, marking an unaccompanied child foreigner, issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year. (bb) c. 2a The words............................................................................. 24, para. 1, t. 18 and "sweep' are deleted. (b) the creation of para. 11: ..the documents of the identity under para. 1, t. 4 and 8 and the residence documents under para. 2 and 3 shall be issued within 30 days of the date of submission of the application. 4. In § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words The Commission proposes to create § 28.. 32: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Law on Religions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 29, para. 3 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted. § 29. In the Law on the activities of provision of services (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 20, p. 8 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted. § 30. In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) in the additional provisions in § 1, point (b) 12, letter "in" the words "not Bulgarian citizens" and the comma before and after them are deleted. § 31. In the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 words which are not Bulgarian citizens and the comma before and after them are deleted. 2. In § 1, t. 30 of the additional provisions, the words "not Bulgarian citizens" and the comma before and after them are deleted. § 32. In the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1, t. 7 of the additional provisions, the words "not Bulgarian citizens" and the comma before and after them are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u33	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 24, which shall become § 27 of the Commission Report, and the newly created paragraphs 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u34	There is a proposal from the National Representative Manoil Manev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 33: ................................................ In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179, para. 2 the words................................................................................. 178, para. 1, t. This Decision 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 179a: Art. 179a. (1) The terms, arrangements and maximum amounts for the payment of the additional remuneration under art. 178, para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Interior. (2) The determination of the specific amount of the additional remuneration under art. 178, para. 1, t. 2 and the specific business activity concerned, its amendment, suspension and reimbursement of each employee shall be determined by order of the heads of structures under art. 37 as well as the directors of the regional police departments and of the regional police and of the fire safety and protection of the population.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 37 by the Minister of the Interior or by officials appointed by the Minister of the Interior. 3. Everywhere in the law, the words "The Act on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and the members of their families" shall be replaced by "the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and their family members." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 34: ................. 34................................................................. (1) Paragraph 5, § 7, p. 1 (c) and § 17 shall enter into force 6 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. (2) Paragraph 24 shall enter into force on the day following the date of withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new § 33 and the version of § 25, which shall become § 34 respectively under the Commission Report. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Let me thank you for accepting the amendments to this law in particular as regards how the status of UK citizens will be regulated after its withdrawal from the European Union is extremely important. At present, the same procedure is being carried out with regard to the permanent residents of Bulgarian citizens in the UK. For this reason, Madam President, allow me once again to thank the Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. I thank them, too. Colleagues, we're interrupting. 11:00. I'm in control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u38	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next item on the agenda: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers have been received from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Iglika Sabeva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Iglika Sabeva. Today's control will start with questions to Mr. Neno Dimov. Minister of Environment and Water, who will answer a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov. Mr. Stoyanov's question is about composting plant for separately collected green and biodegradable waste, pre-treatment plants for household waste and accompanying infrastructure for the Regional Waste Management System of Sandanski, Strumyani and Kresna municipalities. Here you are, Mr. Stoyanov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, at the end of 2017, you, together with the mayors of the municipalities of Sandanski, Kresna and Strumyani, signed a grant agreement under Priority Axis The timely preparation of the project documentation itself speaks about the local authorities' commitment to achieving the objectives set out in the legislation, as well as the National Waste Management Plan 2014-2020. A composting installation for separately collected green and biodegradable waste is already being built in the project, as well as an installation for prior treatment of mixed municipal waste. Given that the European Union's waste policy contributes to an increase in resource efficiency, as well as a reduction in negative impacts on the environment and human health, my question to you covers the following: what are the expected results of the implementation of the measures under this project, and at what stage are the activities of its physical and financial implementation and the construction of these two installations, respectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, the expected result of the implementation of the measures under the project is to reduce the amount of municipal waste deposited by providing additional capacity for the prior treatment of mixed municipal waste and for the real collection and recycling by composting of green and biodegradable waste. The construction of the composting plant and the pre-treatment plant for municipal waste, which will serve the municipalities of the Regional Waste System, will contribute to compliance with the waste management hierarchy in the region under European and national law. The main activity of the project is in progress. The design phase has been completed and the work projects for the two installations and the accompanying infrastructure have been drawn up and coordinated. A positive complex Report for assessing the compliance of the investment project with the other requirements for the construction under art. 142, para. 1, 2, 4 and 5 of the Law on Structure of the Area. A construction permit was issued on 20 March 2019 and is due to be published in the Official Journal. The actual construction activities are expected to start at the end of April 2019 after the entry into force of the building permit issued and the signing of Protocol No 2 for the opening of a construction site and the definition of a construction line and the level of construction by the technical infrastructure. The project's accompanying activities shall be carried out as scheduled. At present, the achieved financial implementation of the project is close to 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, would you care to comment? You've got a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for the information provided and delivered about the composting installation in the three municipalities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Information regarding the implementation of the project is useful both for clarification of the facts and deadlines of its implementation and for the indisputability of the implementation of this project. It is an indisputable and useful fact because it will actually contribute to reducing the amount of municipal waste deposited, including, as you said, of course, not least, and to collecting green biodegradable waste. This is actually the direction in which local authorities must also go in the face of the three municipalities, respectively, and the Ministry of Environment and Water. Your efforts deserve not only congratulations, but also support from us, for which we thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, will you take a stand? There were no further questions for you. The next question is from the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, to develop your question regarding the implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. You have the floor, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Bulgaria is obliged, as you know, to apply the Maritime Strategy Framework Directive of the European Union according to its maritime territories, namely the Black Sea, respectively the Ministry of Environment and Water has the wonderful opportunity to use attracted capital from the European Economic Area, as well as from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. For this purpose, however, I am asking you a few questions that I think may be stumbling in front of you. The first is that the unit is disbanded in the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region, at least as far as I am aware, which deals with the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. It was disbanded shortly before the pre-defined 2.2 million project was drawn up. Euros. It should be clear to you that this is a project which has been approved in advance, i.e. the implementation project itself, should be provided. This particular unit in the previous programming period received a prize from the European Economic Area in the category "Partnership" in 2014 when five successful agreements were signed. My second question is: will the implementation of the pre-defined external project of the MOEW system be entrusted instead of being implemented by the employees of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region, as it was in the previous programming period and for which the Directorate was awarded? And the third question is: how will the MOEW ensure the establishment and implementation of the pre-defined project, if not the MOEW, and its body in the face of the Black Sea Basin Directorate is the competent authority for implementing the Marine Strategy Framework Directive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Please, Mr. Minister, answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, the Republic of Bulgaria is implementing the Maritime Strategy Framework Directive. This is Directive 2008/56 EU, which has been transposed into the Bulgarian legislation through the Water Act and the Environmental Protection Regulation in the Sea. The objective of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive is to achieve and maintain in a good environment the Black Sea waters by implementing an Environmental and Marine Strategy The competent authorities for implementing the requirements of the Maritime Strategy Framework Directive are the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Environment and Water, the Director of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region, the Ministers of the Marine Conservation Departments and the Institute of Oceanology at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The programmes of measures relate to the overall maritime aquatoria in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Marine Strategy Programme builds on the programmes of measures included in river basin management plans and ensures a reduction in human pressure in the marine environment to meet the requirements of the Maritime Strategy Framework Directive. The activities related to the development and implementation of the programmes of measures of the Maritime Strategy have been replaced by the Director of the Swimming Directorate of the Black Sea Region and are carried out by the Department of Marine Water Conservation and Monitoring at the Directorate of Plans and Licences at the Basin Directorate. Since the establishment of the department there has not been a change in its functions and in 2016 its number has been increased by one state number in relation to support actions under the Marine Strategy Framework Directive, i.e. no change has taken place. The duties of the department include participation in the preparation, implementation and management of projects related to the activities of the Directive. The department is intended to continue to ensure the implementation of the project with different sources of funding and those relevant to the protection of the marine environment. During the negotiations on the new programming period of the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area 2014 The aim of the project is to ensure an effective build-up of the requirements of the Directive, including the implementation of some of the planned measures to the Maritime Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, support bilateral coordination with the Republic of Romania for the synchronised implementation of the requirements of the Framework Directive in accordance with the revised Decision 2017/848/EC laying down criteria and methodological standards for good environmental status of sea waters, as well as a specification of standardised monitoring and evaluation methods. The Black Sea Region as a beneficiary will implement the project in broad partnership with Sofia University, Kliment Ohridski, the Institute of Maritime and Freshwater Research, the Norwegian Institute of Maritime Research and other scientific institutions. Within the framework of the project, the Norwegian and Icelandic experience in implementing marine environmental policies will be used and upgraded. The Ministry of Environment and Water, together with the Black Sea Basin Directorate, took the necessary steps to develop and implement the Maritime Strategy, including ensuring the implementation of the activities of the pre-defined project, which will be financed under the European Economic Area Financial Mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, Mr. Alexandrov? You don't have a line on the answer. We continue with another question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov. Is Mr. Stoyanov here? I ask the Quaestors to assist me in finding Mr. Stoyanov. This is the last question to the Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Minister, there is a question from the MP Evgenia Alexieva. It refers to the measures to improve the quality of the air in Sofia city. He's been marked as a dropout for today's control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u49	Maybe it's some kind of mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u50	Excuse me, Mrs. Alexieva. With interest, we'll hear your question. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, issues related to the quality of the air in the capital are getting more and more exciting for the residents of our city. Measurements show increased values of mostly fine particulate matter, and as main sources the household heating with the use of ineffective solid fuel stoves and solid fuel boilers and road transport. A while ago you stated that the Ministry of Environment and Water has developed a National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, which will define the framework of measures at national level. In parallel, at the beginning of this year Sofia Municipality won a project under the LIFE Programme, which includes measures related to improving air quality and the managing authority Even at the moment when we are talking about it, a very important meeting is taking place in Sofia. This is the second edition of the European Conference on Air Quality, which will continue throughout the day. Given that the subject is extremely important to our city, and you, Mr. Minister, have bet the quality of the air as a top priority for the work of the Ministry of Environment and Water, my questions to you are: at what stage is the adoption of the National Programme and how do you foresee the financing of the measures under it? And what measures for clean air are provided for financing in Sofia in the LIFE and Operational Programme projects 2014 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u53	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Aleksieva, National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality 2018 - 2024 was developed on the basis of an agreement concluded on 28 September 2016 between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in support of air quality management. The development of the Programme is funded by the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "2020." The National Programme provides for measures to be implemented by the end of 2024 in order to achieve compliance with the fine particulate standards in the 28 municipalities that are included in the criminal procedure against our country. The measures in the Programme are primarily aimed at changing the way of domestic heating. The draft National Programme and the accompanying documents have passed the respective coordination and public consultation procedure. At present, issues related to the definition of financial parameters for implementing the measures are being dealt with. Upon completion of their work, the Programme project will be submitted for consideration and adoption by the Council of Ministers. We are currently exploring all the possibilities for financing the measures under the Programme. At this stage, they are intended to be financed under several mechanisms: First of all, Operational Programme For this purpose, a grant resource has already been provided by direct granting of 111 million to municipalities. lv. through subsidies from the state budget. At this stage, the readiness of municipalities to implement the measures and opportunities of the state budget for their financing is analysed. Based on the results of the implementation of the measures under the current operational programme, an additional financial resource will be planned for the next programming period 2021. Moreover, I hope that the current programme and other municipalities will have access to funding during this period. By means of the LIFE Programme, I should be very pleased to note the implementation of the first integrated project for Bulgaria under this programme. "Unified Bulgarian municipalities for improving the quality of the air air with beneficiary Sofia Municipality and the respective beneficiaries of the municipalities Burgas, Ruse, Stara Zagora, Veliko Tarnovo, Montana. The total value of the project is 16.6 million. Euros. The integrated project will channel and streamline the efforts of the six municipal partners to reduce air pollution. The main objectives of the project are to improve the quality of the air by replacing the main heating facilities with more environmentally friendly ones. The capacity of the administration in the six municipalities will be improved in order to implement measures provided for in the atmospheric air quality programmes, the control and awareness of society will be increased. Other activities will be aimed at improving the transfer of know-how and experience in the field of air quality by building measures with municipalities of the European Union, institutions, project partners. I would like to encourage other municipalities to actively take advantage of the possibility of this and other international programmes. Sofia Municipality is also a candidate for two procedures of Priority Axis 5.Improve the quality of the air, of Operational Programme "Environment 2014 " 2020............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. According to the first procedure Sofia Municipality submitted a project proposal. The aim is to update the municipal programme for the period 2021 to reduce pollution levels and reach the established standards for air quality in Sofia Municipality and to plan adequate measures to improve it, leading to the achievement of the established standards. The project proposal is currently at the stage of evaluation. According to the second procedure on 21 December 2018, Sofia Municipality submitted a project proposal with the name of the Sofia Municipality Air quality improvement through the replacement of solid fuel heating devices with more ecological alternatives. The project proposal aims to reduce the amount of particulate matter emissions in the municipality's territory with a source of domestic heating by replacing household heating devices that use solid fuel appliances for heating and replacing them with alternatives that are better for the environment. The project proposal under the Programme was approved for financing and on 4 April the Ministry and the Municipality signed a contract of 43 million. lv. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that, to date, as a result of the efforts made by all countries, the state, municipalities, institutions, citizens, data from monitoring the quality of the air in recent years have shown a constant positive trend for reducing the pollution with particulate matter. The results in the capital show a sustained improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's your cue, Mrs. Alexiev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I am happy with what you said was a positive trend for reducing particulate pollution not only in the capital, but throughout the country. The measures you have taken and bet in the National Programme of the Ministry of Environment and Waters to improve air quality and the Programme of 100 measures that Sofia Municipality and Mrs. Fandakova implement to improve air cleanliness, including projects under the LIFE Programme and the Environment Operational Programme, to replace the old solid fuel stoves and boilers with more ecological heating appliances, as well as the planned renewal of 90% of the urban transport for this year in the capital prove that air cleanliness is a priority for you, Mr. Minister, of the Ministry, of all institutions and Sofia Municipality. So I will be happy and I will be interested in making sure that in the future this topic is kept to a minimum. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Alexieva, I just want to fill in some more information from the opening this morning at the SOFAIR forum. If, in 2011, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement') and in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement'). 75% of air quality monitoring stations have exceeded standards, i.e. only nine of the stations have covered legislative requirements, according to preliminary data for 2018. Seventy-five percent meet the standards. That is to say, from minus 75 to plus 75 is a huge road that is not only in Sofia but also in other municipalities. I would like to thank the mayors throughout this entire, perhaps eight-year period for active efforts to achieve good air quality. Already sustainable six cities of those who are in the penal procedure show the achievement of the standards for the years. This year will probably add three more to them.. I expect the final data by the end of this month. This shows that about one third of the cities that are in the penal procedure already show the achievement of the measures. Especially for Sofia for this winter season, again according to preliminary data, two of the stations fully cover the norms, two have almost reached the norms, so the measures also give their result, which does not mean that there is nothing more to be done so that both the Sofians and the citizens of the other cities in Bulgaria can have a better quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the issue of the MP Atanas Stoyanov on the potential pollution of the cross-border river Dragovishtitsa from the activity of a mine in the village of Karamanica, the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Stoyanov, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! At the end of last year, information on the pollution of the Dragovishtitsa river came out of the activity of a mine in the village of Karamanica, the Republic of Serbia. In view of this environmental problem at the beginning of this year, you held a meeting with representatives of Bulgarian citizens from Bosilegrad and Kyustendil. A meeting was held at the beginning of the year between you and the Minister for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia. The press release of the Ministry of Environment and Water has shown that you have put this issue categorically, as well as other project ideas that can begin, for the respective implementation in the region. My question covers the following: what are the results of the meetings held in relation to the environmental issue on pollution of the Dragovishtitsa River; what is the information from a Serbian country about the state of water in this river, and how do you see our cooperation with the Republic of Serbia in the field of ecology?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, in response to the signals received about possible pollution of the waters of the Dragovishtitsa River, cross-border for Bulgaria and Serbia, in November 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water sent a letter to the Ministry of Environment Protection of the Republic of Serbia, requesting information regarding the cross-border environmental assessment procedure for a pilot installation for testing flotation processes for extracting copper, lead and zinc from polymetal ores at the village of Karamanica. On 1 February 2019, the Republic of Serbia informed us that it is in the process of preparing and examining the environmental impact assessment of projects for operation and extraction of mining ore. In this regard, on 21 February, the Republic of Bulgaria formally declared a wish to participate in an EIA procedure for the project as the affected country and expects to receive notification under art. 3 of the EIA Convention in a cross-border context. By diplomatic route, we requested information on the quality of the waters of the Dragovishtitsa River in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the permitted and carried out on their territory mining and production activities that could be a source of pollution of the waters of the river. In order to protect the waters from pollution and in response to the concerns of the population in the border area, we have taken a number of actions as follows: 86 indicators of the waters of Dragovishtitsa river are monitored in the country's territory from December 2018. In 2018, there were single deviations on basic physical and chemical indicators such as active reactions of total nitrogen and total phosphorus, which may be related to the influence of unpolluted waste water from settlements and agricultural activity. Currently there is no contamination of river waters with priority substances, including heavy metals, pesticides, volatile organic compounds and others. However, we are monitoring closely the monitoring results at the border point with the Republic of Serbia. New 12 priority substances have been added since April 2019, which will be monitored monthly. Thus, the indicators will become 98 in which the river will be monitored. In January 2019, on a proposal from the Bulgarian side, we held a bilateral meeting with Serbia's Minister for Environmental Protection, Mr. Goran Trivan. At the meeting I stated Bulgaria's position for conducting an EIA procedure in a cross-border context, provided that the activities related to the mine at the village of Karamanica continue and other investment intentions. I raised the issue of the pollution of the Dragovishtitsa river and highlighted the wide public and media response on the topic in Bulgaria. I proposed the establishment of a joint co-operation committee, represented by both sides, at Deputy Minister level. With a view to resolving the cross-border water problem with regard to the Dragovishtitsa River and the Timok River, I proposed an interaction with Serbia within a joint project, but so far the Serbian country has no opinion on the issue. Before the Bulgarian media Minister Trivan made a commitment to preparation, design and construction of treatment facilities on the territory of Bosilegrad and Tsaribrod. With a note of 7 February 2019, the Republic of Serbia provided information on the quality of the waters of the Dragovishtitsa River for determined and carried out production activities. According to the information received, the samples taken by the Serbian side comply with Serbian national legislation. The quality of surface water at the point at the border with Bulgaria -- the Ribartsi Point, according to data for the period 1998 -- is classified in the category "Excellent" according to Serbian legislation. These waters may be used after purification, filtration and disinfection for drinking, in the food industry and for fish breeding. No excess of priority and priority hazardous substances toxic to human health and harmful to the environment has been recorded at the same point. In addition, after meeting Commissioner Vela during the Environment Council in Brussels on 5 March, I sent written information on the case and insisted that the following issues become part of EU negotiations with the Republic of Serbia on its accession to the European Union. Firstly, a clear and clear recommendation should be made to the Serbian side on strict compliance with the procedures of the EIA Convention and on good neighbourly regulation of bilateral cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia in the field of water, with a focus on implementing the requirements of European Union legislation in this area. Given that Serbia is seeking membership of the European Union, its national legislation must be brought to this by the Union. Secondly, the Serbian side to ensure the necessary purification of its waste water drained in the watercourses of cross-border water currents. The composition of the Commission, which I mentioned just now, for cooperation between the environmental ministries of the two countries, has already been defined. On the Bulgarian side, it will be led by Deputy Minister Nikolai Kanchev, from Serbian side by Deputy Minister Aleksandar Vasic. The information provided by Serbia on the monitoring of the Dragovishtitsa River and economic activities is envisaged at the Commission's first meeting, including a requirement for the process for implementing European water legislation and the harmonisation of legislation in Serbia. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating! On 3 April of this year, I invited my Serbian counterpart to hold the first meeting no later than the end of May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We listened carefully to the comprehensive answer. The subject deserved an extension of the response time. Mr. Stoyanov, come in, you have the opportunity for attitude and a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for the information provided, it was indeed comprehensive on the debate on the pollution of the Dragovishtitsa River. It is obvious that the Bulgarian side in your face and in the competent authorities of your ministry with real action is adequately, reasonably and responsible for the problem of pollution of this river. Based on the data received from our neighbours from Serbia at the moment, this pollution is not dangerous on the basis of those 86 indicators that you said. Of course, preventive control should continue for this river, respectively for the other internal and external rivers and water resources of Bulgaria. In fact, this is a major commitment not only to you, as a state institution, it is also a commitment to business, to environmental organisations, to all state institutions and in general to our society, because we are ultimately all responsible for environmental cleanliness and our beautiful nature, including internal and external rivers and waters. Thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u63	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Secretary? There were no further questions. The time was spent. Thank you for today's participation in the parliamentary control that was the last question for you. The next question is to Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He will answer a question from the MP Alexander Sabanov about the bridge of the Danube between Silistra and Kuluras. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The Saga with the Silistra bridge is at least a hundred years old. This is a dream of all the Silistrians, residents of the municipality and of the district, and the idea of this bridge is perhaps commented by the Liberation from Turkish slavery. After all, in the time of communism there was no such thing, in the early years of democracy there was a lot of talk, but nothing happened. In 2009, when Mr. Borisov's first elected government, there were some foundations and some dialogue with the Romanian side, but from then on nothing happened. In Mr. Borisov's last visit to Romania, it was not even mentioned whether there would be a bridge between Silistra and Kuluras on the Danube. This project for Silistra district is extremely important. For information only, the difference per capita of foreign investment between Silistra and Sofia, per capita, I repeat, is nine hundred times in favor of Sofia. Investments in Silistra are humiliating small, not to say any, and this is one of the factors that can contribute to the development of business and foreign investment in Silistra region. Since this is the conclusion of the road I-7 between Lesovo and Silistra, this international road is important. How important is it for Bulgaria, I want you to answer me, and where have the negotiations for Romania ended up? I'm a citizen of Silistra. I was born there. I live there. Unlike my other colleagues, I am the only MP from Silistra District, from the town of Silistra. I am neither from Dulovo nor from Sofia, nor from Mudrevo. After all, this issue is very important for us, given the other factor that the traffic from Turkish TIR to Romania is currently clogging the city streets, as the international road passes through the city and goes to the ferries of Romanian owners in the Romanian country. It is really very important for us to do something to make this bridge happen after nearly 10 years of promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u65	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sabanov, on 28 March this year it was widely announced in the media in Bucharest that during the joint meeting of the Government of the Republic of Romania and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria was signed a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministers of Transport of Bulgaria and Romania between the two governments on the implementation of joint initiatives to improve the conditions for shipping in the common Romanian section of the Danube River and the transport connectivity between the two countries. I am opening a clamp - the Bulgarian side has always insisted on better connectivity between Bulgaria and Romania by building a bridge facility, as only two bridge facilities are very few throughout the Danube in view of the intensity of traffic and the needs of the economy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Romanian side has always linked this thing to improving the navigability of the Danube, because this for the Romanian side is a top priority, as of course, for the Bulgarian side. Therefore, in preliminary meetings, before the signing of the Memorandum, by working groups between ministries, it was decided that the two things should be considered in a package at the request of the Romanian side. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the Memorandum is indicated that the countries are analyzing all existing documents so far and will agree to choose the location for the preparation of a preliminary study and construction of a third bridge over the Danube River for one of the following proposed sites: Oryahovo This arrangement is the result of a number of preparatory talks aimed at finding an acceptable option for both our and Romanian countries. It is obvious that the construction of a bridge facility in the Silistra region is not exhausted from the priorities of the government, finding a specific solution that will be the subject of the upcoming meetings, working group and examining the conditions and prerequisites together with the Romanian side. It should be borne in mind that Silistra Cullarash and three more of the listed locations are not part of the trans-European transport network, which is why no funding from European funds can be used to build a bridge in this part of the river. Only Ruse is part of the trans-European transport network and only for this location European funds can be used. The possible financial sources for the construction of bridge facilities of Oryahovo "Beckett, Nikopol "Turnu Mugurele, Svishtov " and Silistra " can be from the state budget, public-private partnership or loan funds and depending on the future joint decision with the Romanian side on the location will be sought and appropriate funding options. Since this is about interstate bilateral relations, it is very important not only what we consider feasible and appropriate in view of our economic and state needs, but what the Romanian side would agree to. What is important is that we consider all alternatives in all possible forms of funding, including a public private partnership, without involving the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, this is, in my opinion, the sixth or seventh time in which a memorandum is signed between Bulgaria and Romania. The memorandum, unfortunately, leads to nothing but a memorandum, and actions have been zero in this direction for 10 years. With your answer, it is now becoming more clear that the Ruse Bridge will be a priority, as European funds will be used and will be made easier. It's nice when it comes to commenting, but apparently it won't be the first place the Silistra Bridge is going to be. Mrs. Avramova the other day in Silistra said this would be one of the priorities. Obviously from your answer, that's not exactly true. The priority will, of course, be Ruse. I purposely ask this question now before the elections so that it is not speculated by all political parties. We never commented on it, but when elections come, everyone starts building whether a bridge, whether a tunnel, whether any other transport corridors between Silistra and Culurash. Thanks for the answer at least for the people of Silistra is clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u69	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u70	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sabanov, I'm going to repeat what I just said. All five locations are a priority for the government. All five locations are acceptable to the Romanian side. Only Ruse "Girgevo" can be financed with funds from European sources because it is part of the trans-European transport infrastructure. We haven't made a ranking which is more prioritized and which is less priority. All that the feasibility study will show is appropriate and accepted by the Romanian side, we will welcome because Bulgaria has much more interest at the moment than the construction of a bridge facility anywhere. The Romanian side has an interest in better navigability on the Danube. So we look at things in a package so that we can find the real solution. Therefore, the Memorandum is a starting point for the five locations to be examined because, apart from the issue of the bridge facility, there are other issues related to the ownership of the land, where the steps for the bridges on land will be; issues related to the environmental background; issues related to the transport infrastructure both to the Romanian territory and inside Bulgaria; issues related to the load and traffic; issues related to the regional development of the places where the bridge facilities will be placed. All this will be part of the already moving feasibility studies for all locations. I say again: the bridge facility itself will be in one of these five places without prioritization where there is the greatest extent of opportunity and wealth, but together with the Romanians. If we consider that one out of five is best for us and it does not meet understanding in the Romanian side, we will be in the same situation that we have in recent years that you have been talking about. The important thing is to stress that Bulgaria has an interest in the third bridge and we will insist on its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes the questions for you today. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u72	The Minister of Tourism will answer a question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev about the results achieved for winter season 2018 and expectations for the summer season. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the main strategic goal in the work of your government is to make our country a year-round tourist destination. The steps to achieve this priority are laid down in the measures to increase the level of recognition of our country as a destination with an extremely cultural and historical heritage, preserved nature and wealth of numerous mineral springs, along with mass sea and mountain tourism. In this regard, it is essential to upgrade the already developed summer and winter tourism product by extending the active summer and winter season. In this regard, my question to you is: what are the final results of the winter tourist season for 2018 - 2019, including are your expected growths realized, how much are they in terms of months from December to March? What are the preliminary data and expectations for the upcoming summer mountain season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u74	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Minister Angelkova, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, turning Bulgaria into a year-round tourist destination is a top priority in the tourism policy conducted by the Ministry of Tourism. The increasing recognition of the destination is among the main tasks laid down in the Annual Programme for National Tourist Advertising, as well as a priority measure of the Government Management Programme. To achieve this goal Bulgaria promotes the numerous palette of opportunities for practicing year-round tourism. The results achieved in this direction over the last three years are record for the sector. That is why keeping them is a significant challenge. With regard to the results of winter season 2018 - 2019, I would like to inform you that official reports will be ready in April, as statistics for the period from December 2018 to March 2019 will be ready on April 27th. The data we have at the moment, for the period December 2018 - February 2019, show that we are holding the levels of the record last year. The total number of tourist visits of foreigners in December 2018 "February 2019" is 1,226613, compared to the same period last year we see a slight drop of 2.2%, but in the same period we have an increase in accommodations by about 1.6%, with revenue growth by 5.9% for the same period, which shows that more and more people who choose Bulgaria as a tourist destination remain in it and realize more nights, and therefore, of course, the revenues in the treasury are greater. In addition, I am also committed to informing you about the final results of the winter season 2018 - 2019 when they are officially announced. With regard to the part of the issue concerning the forecasts for the so-called summer mountain tourism, I reiterate that the Ministry of Tourism is making maximum efforts to turn Bulgaria into a year-round tourist destination. We have made a register of festivals in the country, which we also believe are a prerequisite for increasing interest in a destination. This year the Year of Internal Tourism in Bulgaria is announced to be the Year of Internal Tourism in Bulgaria, so that few familiar places in the country that are inside can be explored. We have developed nine cultural and historical destinations, seven balneo- and spa destinations and 12 wine-culinary destinations. This year the launch is coming and different bilateral investment forums in the sector of Tourism and investment tours have already been launched. We have also launched a campaign to promote domestic tourism, which gives us the opportunity to make an extra stay in the country outside the season and within the country. I can assure you that we will continue to make efforts so that we can make Bulgaria a preferred place for rest, a preferred tourist destination for four seasons, year round. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u76	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Matsurev, come in. You have a chance to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you first for your reference for the information you presented to us. I would like to congratulate you on your efforts to develop our country as a year-round tourist destination. For me, as a MP from Blagoevgrad region and as a former deputy mayor of Bansko municipality, the development of year-round tourism is extremely important. I would therefore also like to say that the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism to focus on the Bulgarian tourist are important. It is important to us, appreciates the family vacation, the good quality of the product and the comfort of our city and our country. Thank you again for your information and your efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u78	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. That was more a thank you than a line. There's not gonna be a duvet, as far as I can tell. We continue with a question from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva on measures against incorrect tour operators. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in the context of strong regional competitions, the interest of tourists can be attracted and retained by the good quality of the service offered. Improving the quality of the tourist product and the tourist service as well as ensuring the protection of users of tourist services is one of the leading priorities in the work of your office. It is a fact that our country has exceptional natural resources and offers opportunities for the development of all types of tourism, but sometimes unfair practices by companies employed in the tourism industry mislead consumers of tourist services and harm the good image of the destination. This is also to the detriment of correct traders. My question is related to the implementation of surveillance by the Ministry of Tourism over the activity of tour operators, as their activity should be subject to strict supervision by the responsible authorities in order to protect and generate the security and rights of users of tourist services. In this regard, please inform me and the Members of the National Assembly of the specific actions and sanctions that the Ministry applies to unscrupulous business operators.. tour operators, in relation to preventing unfair practices.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Minister Angelkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveklieva, the Ministry of Tourism works systematically and consistently with regard to the quality of tourist services. The Office shall strictly carry out its management, regulation, control over tourist activities, services and sites, as amended by the Law on Tourism. In this direction, concrete measures have been taken to modernise the legislation, which is as adequate and precise as possible to respond to modern dynamics in the relations between citizens and businesses. The measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, This act extended the scope of protection of tourists and introduced more serious consumer protection guarantees. With regard to specific tour operators and travel agents who commit violations, we are absolutely uncompromising. In this regard, I inform you that with my orders from the beginning of this term, procedures have been carried out to delete the registration by the National Tourist Register of 250 tour operators. The grounds for termination are in line with the provisions of the Tourism Act precisely because of a lack of valid insurance, outstanding obligations under the Law, as well as repeated infringements under the Tourism Act. We work actively and closely with the representatives of branch organizations in the sector, which are imagefully and directly related to the unfair practices of their unscrupulous colleagues, who are units, but who often form a common basis of negative impression. In the exercise of my powers, I exercise maximum effective control by relying on both business and citizens to alert us even in the event of a natural doubt of unfair practice. I assure you that we will continue to be uncompromising and at the service of citizens with an active signal line related to irregularities under the Tourism Act. In conclusion, I inform you that, for the purpose of a comprehensive and accessible database for citizens, we have developed the so-called information system. The register of tour operators and travel agents, which is accessible on the institutional website of the office, also provides up-to-date information on the validity of the insurance of a tourist operator. The so-called insurance light is developed. The responsibility of the tour operator is indicated in different colors the status of the insurance concerned. This information is extremely important to consumers because unfair practices on the part of tourism traders can be prevented on the basis of it. In addition, all tour operators and travel agents who have a warrant for deletion are colored entirely in red, and those without appropriate registration in the National Tourist Register are not allowed to operate. Information about the implemented insurances The responsibility of the tour operator shall be made available in real time in the National Tourist Register in a period of every three hours. Orders for deletion or termination of activity shall also be recorded immediately in the database. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Saveklieva, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. Once again, I would like to stress that this issue is in the interest of honest and conscientious tour operators who often suffer from, as you have said, single but indicative cases of violations by incorrect colleagues who are able to cause a bad image effect on the whole industry. I am pleased that you have once again referred to the Register of Tour Operators, and I believe that your actions are adequate and comprehensive in this case. Perhaps we should have more responsibility and obligation ourselves before using the tour operator's services, in fact being informed by the Register of its integrity, so to say, and whether it meets all the requirements of the Law. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u84	Thank you. There's not gonna be a duvet. Allow me to thank the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. It will answer a question from the National Representative Krasimir Sabev about the need to repair and rehabilitate a section of road III-8652 from the town of Nedelino to the connection with road III-867. Mr. Subev, we're waiting for you in the stands. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u85	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the Republican Road III-8652 is a third-class road, part of the Republican Road Network crossing the territory of Kardzhali District and Smolyan. The rehabilitation of the section from the town of Nedelino to the connection with road III-867 is vital for improving the transport connectivity between the municipalities of Zlatograd and Nedelino. In this regard, my question to you is: is there a project prepared for repair and rehabilitation of road III-8652 from the city of Nedelino to connection with road III-867 and is the repair and construction activities of the said section envisaged during 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Subev. Come in for an answer, Minister Avramova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Subev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Republican Road III-8652 Stoyanovo The length of the section of the third-class road on the territory of Smolyan district is about 20 km, of which most of them are damaged transport qualities. The experts from Regional Road Management Smolyan reported as the most critical condition of the road in the following sections: from km 15+060 to km 17+214 and from km 20+680 to km 28+965 with a total length of 10,439 km. At km 15+795 due to the rain showers that fell in the spring of 2015 the road structure, banquet and part of the right lane for movement were destroyed. When the weather conditions are complicated and there are new rainfalls, there is a real danger of an interruption of the road, where the movement of the entire traffic flow will stop in the direction of Nedelino.. Padina...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Due to a limited budget in recent years, only ongoing repairs and maintenance activities have been carried out. The condition of the pavement is poor, with cracks, accelerated wear, torn places and single holes. The drainage is also impaired, the horizontal marking is worn out, the vertical alarm is incomplete and the containment systems do not meet the requirements. It is precisely because of the importance of the road and in view of its severely deteriorated operational situation that experts from the Road Infrastructure Agency (RF) have included the above-mentioned section about 10.5 km long in a draft list of sections requiring preventive repair. The indicative value of the site is about 5 million. lv. For the site in 2018 was awarded the construction of a technology project, which is currently ready. He follows his approval by the Institute of Roads and Bridges and Coordination by the Road Infrastructure Agency. After the final coordination of the documentation will also start the construction works themselves and the site is provided for in the Agency's programme for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Subev? There won't be a line, so there won't be a back. We come to the next question, asked by the National Representative Evgenia Angelova, about the construction of a circular intersection on the Republican road I-5 Dimitrovgrad. Here you are, dear Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u89	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister Avramova, with the launch of a road hub of the highway of Dimitrovgrad, the opening of the border point of Makaza and the establishment of an industrial area between the municipalities of Haskovo and Dimitrovgrad the traffic along Republican road I-5 Dimitrovgrad has been increased many times, which in turn creates some difficulties with the movement. We take into account the measures that the Ministry and in particular the Road Infrastructure Agency are taking to improve the state of the road through the renovation activities launched in 2017 and 2018 on the pavement of certain sections of the road, but still remains problematic the section of the existing tri-cloning intersection in the area of the newly formed industrial zone............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In view of the intensive traffic of motor vehicles along the Republican road and the future development of this industrial area, it is necessary to ensure unconflict access from it to the Republican road. Of course, I am familiar with the intentions of the Road Infrastructure Agency to solve this problem with the construction of a circular intersection, so in this regard my question to you is: at what stage is the realization of this investment intention; is there funding available for construction and installation activities; and, of course, most important: when is the intersection expected to be built? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Minister Avramova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u91	Mrs. President, Mrs. Angelova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The investment intention of the Road Infrastructure Agency for the construction of a circular intersection on the road I-5 Dimitrovgrad at km 285+809 of the branch for the plant Jazaki is in an advanced stage of preparation. The funds for the realization of the site of 578 thousand. BGN 328. are provided by the Agency's budget. In 2017, the Agency launched procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of contractors of construction and supervision. The procedures were completed in 2018. As a contractor of the construction was chosen the company AB JSC "The City of Haskovo," with which a contract of 568 thousand was concluded. £788. with VAT. The supervision will be carried out by the "MTT Engineering" Ltd., with which a contract of 9 thousand has been concluded. BGN 540. with VAT. A detailed development plan has been drawn up for the field provision of construction, which was submitted to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in early April this year for consideration and adoption of the National Expert Council on Planning and Regional Policy at the Ministry. Upon completion of the procedure for adoption of the PSU, a parcel plan will be started to issue a permit for the construction of the site. Construction and installation works are expected to start before the beginning of the summer season. The construction period shall be 90 days from the signature of Protocol Model No 2a. With the construction of a circular intersection will improve the safety when crossing the current triclonal intersection and will provide unconflict access to road I 5 Dimitrovgrad Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Angelova, come in. A positive answer, but you must have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u93	Not a replica, but rather I would like to express admiration for the efforts the Ministry and the government are making to build the infrastructure, because it inevitably leads to higher economic growth. Haskovo District is a kind of example of this, specifically with the construction of the highway "Maritsa" which led to the construction and expansion of the industrial zone between Haskovo and Dimitrovgrad. I believe that the construction, which I understand, will be very soon, of this circular intersection will help ensure the safer movement of people and the more seamless passage of traffic. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u94	Thank you. There's not gonna be a duvet. Allow me to thank Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. First, he will answer a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov about the actions of the Ministry of Health for the rescue of a Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I realize that the situation is dynamic, and what was last week is already different today, but I am asking the question as I have put the topic to you. Dear Minister, once again I address you with a call for the rescue of the Vratsa hospital. As the whole of Bulgaria already knows, the hospital has accumulated serious obligations over the years as a result of management errors and incorrect decisions. I welcome you for the desire to heal the medical establishment. In fact, all the recommendations that you have made have already been implemented, but it is becoming increasingly obvious that the district hospital, by its own means, cannot come out of the situation. As a result, doctors, nurses, and nurses today bear the burden. The payment of their work is unfair, uncompetitive to other nearby hospitals. This forces some of the specialists to seek realization outside the hospital........................................................................................... As a result, patients in Vratsa region and all of Northwestern Bulgaria suffer as a result. Unfortunately, almost nothing of the commitments made during the meetings is being fulfilled. Neither has the repair of the maternity ward started, nor has the invasive cardiology opened, nor have any means of repairing the apparatus of the haemodialysis ward been provided. During the last month of protest, nurses came out, placed in a humiliating financial situation and poor working conditions. Now they are offered to sign a collective contract at monthly remuneration of 560 BGN, as is the minimum wage. Dear Minister, you understand that under these restrictive measures, the Vratsa hospital is not only unable to get out of the tragic situation, but will soon be without personnel. In view of the need for quick and precise solutions, my question to you is as follows: what other measures does the Ministry of Health carry out for the rescue of the Hospital............................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u97	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, your information is really old and you will find that out from my exhibition. The possible sources of funding for hospital care institutions are regulated in art. Art. 96 97 of the Law on Medical Institutions under the restriction referred to in art. 3, para. 4 of the Law on Medical Institutions, namely: a ban on commercial transactions, except for the needs of the medical activities carried out and for the care of patients. The main sources of funding are from the NHIF for activities carried out under the Health Insurance Act and the Ministry of Health for activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, as well as for the implementation of national programmes and projects. For 2019 the hospital in Vratsa will receive under the NHIF Treaty nearly 900 thousand. lv. More than 2018 and the increase in the subsidy from the Ministry of Health under Regulation No 3 of this year for subsidising activities outside the scope of compulsory health insurance is 141 thousand. lv. The sum of the funds by which the hospital in Vratsa will carry out medical activities in 2019 has been increased by 1 million. Thirty-nine thousand. £400. compared to 2018, which will significantly improve the financial situation of the medical establishment. In accordance with art. 100 of the Law on Medical Institutions for the purpose of supporting and maintaining the infrastructure of medical establishments, including construction, maintenance, repairs, purchase of equipment, state and municipalities provide targeted capital costs, with the amount of capital used increases the capital of the trading company concerned. Capital expenditure means are intended to provide the necessary infrastructure to carry out hospital care in public hospitals. And now specifically for the In accordance with that procedure, capital expenditure under the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2019 for the Vratsa hospital is provided for an amount of 529 thousand. 500 BGN, distributed as follows: repair of an angiography space 500 leva. You know that the angiographer is already in place, we expect the repair to be completed, for God's sake, within no more than 30 days, and the angiographer will be able to start working and service citizens in the area, and not only on it, and therefore there will be additional revenue from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund; purchase of haemodialysis apparatus and haemodialysis armchairs. lv.; repair and reconstruction of the AG ward - 280 thousand. lv.; purchase of mandatory minimum equipment of the judicial department............................................................................................. lv. These funds have already been approved. The letter to the hospital's management was signed by me, so we're ready to pay for the corresponding repairs once they're done under the contracts they made. The state health policy also provides for other activities to assist hospital care facilities, including Hospital "St. Konov" JSC, which resulted in the adoption on 10 April 2019. A decree for the provision of additional funds under the budget of the Ministry of Health. It is about the decree with which the Council of Ministers approved additional costs of 50 million. lv. on the budget of the Ministry of Health, which will predominantly go to raise wages. The decree provides that medical institutions will receive an increase in the subsidy for the activities they carry out in order to be able to ensure equal access to medical care. Pre-conditions and order will be established for control over the spending of the funds provided by the Decree and a regulation of the Minister of Health will lay down the conditions and arrangements for financial management of the medical institutions aimed at improving financial discipline in hospital care facilities. Work on the methodology for establishing the allocation of staff costs will be finalised. In this way, on the one hand, the efficiency of spending funds in hospitals will be increased and, on the other, the possibility of increasing the salaries of medical staff will be provided. I am confident that, by the end of 2019, the effect of all actions taken so far will lead to financial stabilisation of public health institutions, including the Hospital............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Bogdanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u99	Dear Minister, the procedure of the National Assembly is such that sometimes the questions asked would be relevant if they were under blitzcontrol, but as I said in the beginning, the situation is dynamic, things change. What you're saying is exhilarating. Yeah, I'm familiar with the ideas of repair work, of refurbishing wards in the Vratsa hospital, which are currently not in good condition. I would urge you to be more persistent and demanding about shortening the time limits, as the normal functioning of these compartments cannot be delayed. What I did not receive as an answer, but it is already publicly known is really joyous that the nurses at the Hospital of Botev and in general in the country will receive an increase in their salaries, which was decided at a meeting of the Council of Ministers this week. This is positive news, and I hope that these medical workers will be satisfied with the new remuneration that will give them a chance to work in a better environment and take better care of their patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u100	Thank you. Opportunity for the duplicate, dear Minister Ananiev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u101	Madam President, it's not exactly the backdrop. I just want to say that we often meet with the management of the Hospital Vratsa. Even last week the director was with me, along with the district manager and the mayor of the municipality. We keep in constant contact with creditors. I assure you that we are doing everything we can to make sure that there is a real cash flow that the hospital can carry out its activities with. And what you said about intentions are not intentions. I assure you that this is already a fact, and we are prepared to pay for the repairs made so that we can speed up the process of adapting the hospital to more efficient and accelerated work in its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u102	Thank you. We continue with a question from the MP Borislav Borisov about a centralised procurement for medicinal products. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Minister, in the Strategy for the Development of a portfolio, in fulfillment of the priorities established in the Coalition Agreement between the GERB Party and the United Patriarch, Priority No 2 is to ensure financial stability and security of the health system, with one of the objectives being to conduct a balanced integrated national drug policy providing financial stability and security of the system in the long term. One of the measures set for the implementation of this objective is the launch and implementation of procurement procedures for the purpose of concluding framework agreements for the supply of medicinal products on behalf of and at the expense of hospital care facilities through a central procurement body in the sector of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, my question to you is: what happens to the centralised procurement for the marketing of medicinal products? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Minister Ananiev, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u105	Dear President, dear Mr. Borisov! In relation to the functions of the Minister of Health as a central purchasing body in the sector...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, three test procedures were organised covering all stages of the application and conduct of the procurement in the electronic system. All test procedures were conducted in the production environment of the electronic system. They were attended by medical establishments registered in the system, wholesalers with medicinal products and marketing authorisation holders. Additional system settings were made within the test procedures, as well as adjustments to some of the functionalities in order to optimize the workflow. Currently all test procedures have been finalised, additional system settings have been performed and the identified errors have been cleared. In order to ensure the security of the data and information contained in the electronic system, the Ministry of Health has invited the non-governmental organizations of wholesalers with medicinal products in the Republic of Bulgaria to audit the electronic system. Upon completion of the audit to ensure data security and information in the electronic system, the real open procedure will be launched. This is expected to happen in May next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Borisov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u107	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am extremely pleased to hear that in May the public order for centralised delivery of medicines will be launched, as we are all waiting for it perhaps for more than two years. I think this will lead to real savings of funds. We all know that when we talk about health care, unfortunately, we always talk about money shortages. Thank you once again and good luck on the electronic system!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u108	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Mr. Minister, thank you. We're waiting for the back, the line, more thanks. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u109	Thank you, Madam President. I just want to say something that's really important. There are several systems that my team and I want to speed up because it will lead to an increase in the efficiency of spending the funds and, respectively, the savings that you have talked about, which can be used again in the system for other purposes. Besides this system, you know, along with my team, we accelerated the construction of the Single National Health Information System. You know that with success we are carrying out the big project to modernise emergency aid, at the same time there is the project for the verification of medicinal products, in general all the information systems that we need. TELK's system is also on the finish line. We understand that without eHealth, things can't go well. We therefore take care of all directions because we see that efficiency can only be achieved when control is carried out electronically, without the possibility of directly participating staff, which also reduces corruption practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Emil Tonchev on improving the laboratory conditions in the regional health inspections. Here you are, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u111	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Regional health inspections as part of the national health system implement and organise state health policy in the territory of the relevant administrative area. They play an essential role in protecting the health of citizens as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, a national priority guaranteed by the state. As bodies of state health control, RIs carry out a number of activities aimed at protecting and improving public health. One of them is monitoring the factors of the living environment and control over products and goods relevant to human health through laboratory analyses of drinking water samples taken from the consumer's crane, bathing waters, cosmetic products, chemicals and mixtures and laboratory measurements of noise, ionizing radiations and others. For the implementation of these responsible activities, it is necessary to equip RGI laboratories with modern equipment meeting the current requirements, such as at present either not available in inspections, or the existing one is outdated, depreciated and needs replacement. In this regard, the question to you is: what does the Ministry of Health do to improve laboratory conditions in regional health inspections?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u112	Thank you, dear Dr. Tonchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u113	Dear Chairman, dear Dr. Tonchev! One of the objectives of the Ministry of Health is to bring the scope and frequency of monitoring of the quality of drinking water carried out by state health control authorities in full compliance with the requirements of European and national legislation by providing equipment for laboratories of the state health control system. In relation to the objective set, the Ministry of Health implements the project.......... monitoring the quality of drinking water.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The project is co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund of the European Union through the Operational Programme "Environment 2014 The project's budget amounts to 10 million. lv. At the present time, in the implementation of Activity 2 the purchase of equipment for service under the Project has been purchased and delivered laboratory equipment, as follows: 6 units of mass spectrometers with inductively connected plasma in the laboratories of the National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection and Regional Health Inspections in Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Pleven, Plovdiv and Stara Zagora; 7 pieces of gashromatographic system in the laboratories of the Sofia Regional Health Inspection and Regional Health Inspections in Burgas, Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Pleven, Plovdiv and Stara Zagora; 6 pieces of liquid chromatographic system in the laboratories of the Sofia Regional Health Inspection and Regional Health Inspections in Burgas, Varna, Veliko Turnovo, Pleven, Plovdiv and Stara Zagora; 6 pieces of spectrophotometric system for the presence of natural uranium in the laboratories of the National Centre of radiobiology and regional health inspections in Burgas, Varna, Plovdiv and Rusea. A working group has been appointed with the participation of Ministry staff and experts in the field that prepares the conduct of a public procurement for the purchase of the following laboratory equipment: 2 ionic chromatographic system; 6 low-phone alpha/beta countersystem; 2 alpha spectrometric system; 2 low-phone spectrometric system; 1 low-phone LCD spectrometer; 6 radonometer with active radon meter. This equipment will improve the ability of laboratories from the state health control system. The equipment expands the scope and increases the technical capacity to analyse fully the mandatory indicators under European and national law. In this way quality and safety of drinking water in the country will be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Tonchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Thank you for the efforts made by the Ministry of Health for the equipment with new modern equipment to RZI laboratories. This will allow this institution to conduct in full and with the necessary precision system in accordance with EU legislation and recommendations monitoring and evaluation of the factors of the living environment in order to prevent possible risks to the health of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-12.u116	Thank you. There will be no thanks to the thanks. Let me thank you for the participation of the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev in today's parliamentary control. New requests for the period from 5 to 11 April 2019 A question came in from: - National Representative Irena Dimova to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on the introduction of the electronic platform for public procurement. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 April 2019; - National Representative Aleksandar Ivanov to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on the results of the activities of the State Financial Inspection Agency and the implementation of the powers to protect the financial interests of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from the State Financial Inspection Act in carrying out the subsequent control of compliance with public procurement legislation. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 April 2019; - MPs Atanas Tashkov, Zapriyan Yankov, Kiril Kalfin to Rosen Zhelyazkov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 19 April 2019. The next meeting of the National Assembly will be held on 16 April 2019 at 11.00 in Veliko Tarnovo. The next regular meeting of the National Assembly will be held on 17 April 2019 at 1300 hours. The meeting is closed for this week. [[PHONE RINGING]]
