ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our Rules each parliamentary session shall be opened with the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union. Please stand up and listen to the hymns. [[(Everyone's up. The anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and the anthem of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] Dear Members of the National Assembly, the bright Easter holidays have passed. To all Christians: Christ has risen! [[(Replying from MPs:]] I take the opportunity to congratulate the Bulgarian Muslims with the beginning of the sacred month of Ramadan for them! Let us wish them health, peace and prosperity! We celebrated the Day of Bravery and the Day of the Bulgarian Army May 6th. Pope Francis' visit to Bulgaria was very successful. Honourable Members, today begins the Seventh Session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In April, we celebrated an important anniversary of the Founding Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution, which was an occasion for worship in the case of the founders, but above all for reckoning. And when we look at what we have done, we should note that it has been two years since the work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly and that we have half the term. The estimates of our activity during this period are often different, even opposite and extreme, but if we look at the figures, we will see that from the beginning of the mandate of this National Assembly it has adopted 260 laws, 379 decisions, two declarations and one address. This shows that serious legislative work has been done. Parliamentary control was also extremely intense, with more than 280 hours of plenary time in total since the beginning of the term of office. My fellow Members, I hope that during this session, despite the election campaign, we will continue to fulfil our duties as MPs, for which we have been trusted by voters, to treat our work responsibly and to be guided by the public interest. This is what they expect and demand from their chosen ones. Let us not forget that each and every one of us, with our actions and morality, with our conduct here in this Chamber, and outside it, with our legislative proposals and competence, gives the general image to the present MP. Let's wish a successful session! Thank you. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Project for 8 May 2019. A proposal has been made by the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs under art. 53, para. 8, you know today is the first Wednesday of the month: 1. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 18 April 2018 No proposals were received from the other parliamentary groups. 2. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the State Property Act. Importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 16 April 2019; Mladen Shishkov and a group of MPs on 17 April 2019. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 1 March 2019. Adopted at first vote on 21 March 2019. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019 5. A bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union. Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States on preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the Host Party for the Secretariat of the South East Europe Disaster Prevention Initiative, signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey. Importer: Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers: Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 22 March 2019. Adopted at first vote on 4 April 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 9 May 2019 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Implementation of the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), of the other part. Importer: Council of Ministers on 15 April 2019 Point 2 for Thursday, 9 May 2019 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Services Activities. Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019 Point 3 for Thursday, 9 May 2019 10. Draft Decision for the Opening of Medical Faculty in the Structure of the University of Sofia Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov Importer: Council of Ministers on 18 April 2019 Point 1 for Friday 10 May 2019 11. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the adoption of the National Assembly Work Programme this week. They voted 116 MPs: 115 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Draft Decisions from 1 April 2019 to 7 May 2019: Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. Importer: Council of Ministers. It's assigned to the Defense Committee. Annual Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for 2018. Importer: Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Messages: On 25 April 2019 the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 5 of 19 April 2019 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 12 of 2018. In its decision, the Constitutional Court declared as unconstitutional and non-compliance with international treaties to which Bulgaria is a country, art. 217, para. 2, para. 3 in the part "When this code or special law provides for the case to be dealt with in an open session or where the court decides to deal with it in that order and para. 4 of the Administrative Procedure Code, as well as § 111, with which in the Law on Environmental Protection in art. The 99th para is created. 12, and § 149, para. 2 sentence first, in the part of the closed session, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. The Council of Ministers shall, on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the National Assembly have been received for information: - Convergence programme of the Republic of Bulgaria (2019), approved by Council of Ministers Decision No 242 of 2019; - Update for 2019 of the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of the Strategy "Europe 2020" approved by Decision No 240 of the Council of Ministers of 2019. By letters of the Chair the materials are provided to all Standing Committees and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that Decision No 238 of the Council of Ministers of 2019 is authorised for the period from 1 May to 31 July 2019 the passage and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces in connection with the conduct of military exercises by the Armed Forces (military, aircraft and land equipment and equipment) of the United States of America, the Republic of Albania, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Italian Republic, Canada, Northern Macedonia and Ukraine. The studies are conducted in implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation, the Plan for the Preparation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019, the Plan for Joint Bulgarian-American Training in the country and abroad in 2019. The President of the Republic of Bulgaria has also been informed in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Decision. The notification was received on 25 April 2019 with the following information: No 902 00-10, and granted to the Defence Committee. In implementation of bilateral military co-operation plans between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the national defence ministries of Romania and the Hellenic Republic in 2019 from 6 May to 20 May 2019, a joint pilot training will be held. The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by his order he has authorised the passage and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Union forces and means (aircraft with their crews, coordination officers and engineering and technical staff) of the Air Force of Romania, the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Italy. The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as activities to prevent military action conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 25 April 2019 with the following information: No 903 09-20, and granted to the Defence Committee. In the implementation of the Plan for the preparation of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 and in the period from 12 to 24 May 2019 at Otopeni Airport, Romania, a pilot training of aircraft will be carried out. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order on the grounds of art. 13, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 3 of the same law, and art. 31, para. Art. 1, art. 64, p. 2 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has authorised the participation of aircraft and servicemen from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria and of soldiers from the Allied Armed Forces on board the Bulgarian military aircraft in the pilot training. The exercise is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to activities to prevent military action led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 30 April 2019 with the following information: No 903 09-21, and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 March 2019. The report shall be reviewed and discussed on 21 April 2019 and Protocol No 17 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 22 March 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - Price indexes of producer on the domestic and international market in industry, March 2019; - Business Conjuncture, April 2019 The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, as the statements of the chairmen of parliamentary groups are coming forward, I propose a direct transmission on BNT 2 and BNR. Please, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Dr Daritkova, on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, you are welcome to make your address.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current session of the National Assembly begins in the midst of the campaign for the elections to the European Parliament, and its end will be an informal start of the campaign for the elections to local authorities. Surely this circumstance will affect the work of Parliament, which, in addition to a legislative body, is also a place for expression of political positions, a clash of ideas, a formation of public opinion. As MPs of the ruling majority, we are obliged to provide the legislative process, which is at the heart of policies in various areas of public life. At the same time, we have a commitment to ensure the implementation of the government's programme by creating a normal rhythm of work of the National Assembly. Therefore, at the beginning of this session, on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group, I would like to reaffirm our commitment to the government and the functioning of Parliament and to give a clear signal that our active participation in the election campaign will in no way interfere with our work in plenary and in the various parliamentary committees. Parliament is also the place from which the opposition controls governance, it has the opportunity to state its alternative positions on various public issues. In this sense, we are concerned about the continuing few months absence of the most numerous opposition party - BSP. We are concerned not because Parliament is blocked and is unable to fulfil its duties as a legislative body, during the last few months the National Assembly's meetings are held regularly and legislative work is carried out rhythmically, we are concerned because the Bulgarian citizens who voted for BSP in the last parliamentary elections are left without their political representation, and the parliamentary debate and political dialogue are replaced by a self-target confrontation that takes place outside this House. The lack of the main opposition force in parliament is not a problem for the majority, but for the democratic process. We do not accept the thesis that with its presence in the parliament BSP legitimizes the management of GERB and "United Patriarchs." Our government is legitimized by nearly 1.5 million Bulgarian citizens who supported us in the last parliamentary elections and who expect us to fulfil our election commitments. I remind you that GERB is in the government of the country from the position of the first political force and this is the strongest possible legitimization that can receive a political party because a government is not legitimized by the opposition, but by those who have given it credit of trust. Deligitising parliament as a place where the Bulgarian people are represented in their entirety and diversity is an action that destroys the foundations of democracy and undermines the foundations of statehood. Such actions have their political cost and this price is yet to be paid. On this occasion, on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, I would like to thank the MPs from the People's Republic of the European Union, DPS, Volya and the independent MPs for fulfilling their commitments to their voters conscientiously and correctly and with their presence here they show their respect for the parliamentary and the will of the Bulgarian people. As part of the ruling majority, the parliamentary group of GERB cannot and does not have the right to betray the people who have chosen this government. That is why we will continue to implement the management programme around which we united with the coalition partners from "United Patriarchs" after the elections on 26 March 2017. And during this parliamentary session, among our main priorities will be the economic development of the country, which will guarantee more revenue in the state budget and hence opportunities for higher social costs. We will continue to make efforts to maximise employment, leading to an increase in incomes in the public and private sectors. We confirm our commitment not to increase taxes and to continue a successful policy on the fight against smuggling and the grey economy. We will continue to implement the country's steps towards joining the ERM II currency mechanism and the Banking Union. Education will continue to be among the main priorities of governance. The stability of the system requires predictability and choice of quality education for each student and student to provide perspective for personal development. For us education is an investment in the future of Bulgaria, which in years will return through the life success of the current Bulgarian children. Among the priorities of GERB's parliamentary group for this parliamentary season is also the consideration of amending the Law on Higher Education, as the amendments will improve accreditation and management of higher schools and will ensure better quality of education. We will place a strong emphasis on continuing the reform of the judiciary. There are upcoming amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, which provide for the development of the system of disciplinary liability of magistrates. We have already stated our support for the development of the regime for early termination of the powers of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General. Our belief is that Bulgaria cannot and should not have untouchable citizens, regardless of their status and position. We will continue to work on the three main procedural codes of procedure.. The Criminal Code, the Civil Procedure Code and the Administrative Procedure Code. Changes to the material criminal law for a new criminal policy are forthcoming, including the upgrade of the regime of combating domestic violence and protection of women and children's personal rights by amending the Penal Code and the Law on Combating Domestic Violence. We will make changes in the trade legislation in order to increase the legal certainty of the trade turnover and protection of investments of both Bulgarian companies and foreign investors. We will complete the verification of the implementation of the new anti-corruption law by preparing an impact assessment to reflect the opinions of all institutions and the proposals for its optimization and improvement. Within the framework of this speech, there is no way to cover all the changes that will take place during this session, but I can say that they will be in the energy, health, transport and agriculture sectors. Special attention will continue to be paid to Parliament's activities related to the modernisation of defence capabilities, such as the ratification of the contract to acquire a new type of combat plane and control over the implementation of the projects for investment costs of the Land Troops and our Navy. For us, investment in defence is not just a modernization, but also a reaffirmation of the strategic choice our country made 15 years ago with full NATO membership. Ladies and gentlemen, as the largest parliamentary group in the National Assembly, we are clearly aware of our responsibility and we are most aware of the burden of governance on ourselves. In GERB we are critical enough to see our own problems, and decisive enough to try to solve them quickly and uncompromisingly. Our presence in parliament is neither self-sustaining nor an attempt to escape the problems of real life. We are aware of the political fact that high public confidence is the most important factor in the effective functioning of a political force. Therefore, we will continue the course that obliges us to keep the trust of those Bulgarian citizens who voted for us and through political action to prevent any attempt to destroy this trust with suspicions of corruption and abuse. This line of conduct in GERB will not end on the day of the elections. Regardless of the election result, we will continue to demonstrate high public sensitivity and react quickly and decisively both through legislative changes and through a personal example of political responsibility. Our desire is thus to form a new style of political behavior that stands beyond the framework of the transition. We hope that this style will also be adopted by the other political forces, because this is the only way we can guarantee to the Bulgarian people that power is not a privilege but a responsibility and a high personal commitment. For us the preservation of trust in the institutions, and hence in the democratic process, stands above the election slogans, over the close party interest and over the vicious political clashes. As a ruling majority, together with fellow Members of the "United patriots" we are obliged to put aside the interpersonal and interparty conflicts and to overcome together the differences with regard to the policies we conduct. I would remind you that the motto of the current policy configuration is Bulgaria above all else and that this means that Bulgaria is above small disputes and above the temptations to earn cheap political dividends and above each of us. We are obliged to seek and find unity on the country's strategic issues and to be as open as possible to dialogue with the opposition on these issues. Above all, we must hear, understand the voice of society and turn this voice into adequate political action. At the same time, as a responsible political force, GERB is called to oppose consistently and categorically the attempts to destabilize the country and the desire of certain political and economic circles to throw the Bulgarian society into chaos and powerlessness. We know that by implementing such revolutionary adventure scenarios, only those who are unable to develop in a normal environment of order and legality will benefit. However, the price for such adventures will be paid, as always, by all honest and worthy Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their political bias and ideas. Therefore, from the parliamentary tribune and in the legislative process we will oppose the attempts to divide and weaken the Bulgarian society. We will not succumb to the temptation to use hatred as a political argument against our political opponents. Our understanding of politics is that it should heal the wounds of society, not open new wounds. I wish to all successful session and God to protect Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u3	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. On behalf of the United Patriarchs? You won't have a statement. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u4	What about BSP?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u5	BSP don't see them. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Bulgarian citizens! Christ has risen!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u7	He's really awake!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u8	The largest opposition party is not in the Chamber, but has the most effective, most pragmatic and most constructive, namely the Volya party. We, as true Bulgarian patriots, willfully reaffirm our commitment to the Bulgarian people and in this session to illuminate, force, expose all the handicaps, all the negatives, the robberies, the corruption and force the government and the ruling majority to fulfill their election program and election promises. Just to show once again the need for our political party and our parliamentary group to exist in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the Bulgarian political life, I will give you an example from the real life. People who are weak, almost in front of a show, you know, as a last resort, as a last resort, call and shout trouble. The trouble comes, looks at the problems and says: [[laughs, laughs.]] We will be here and will help the Bulgarians to live better and better, we will help Bulgaria to prosper. Thank you. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Colleagues, we're continuing on the program. As I introduced you, there is a proposal based on art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure for the inclusion in the weekly programme of the National Assembly of: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX, No 854-01-23, dated 18 April 2018, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. You're welcome to brief us on the motives, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I will not read the reasons for the Bill, which are known to all Members of the National Assembly, as it has been aged for more than a year in the National Assembly. I would like to say a few words about why we tabled this bill and what its objectives are. For years, one of the big guys for the Bulgarian society has been domestic crime. Some people call it "Cypsy crime," but let's not use ethnic epithets in this direction. This type of crime is characterized by particular insolence and intensity throughout the country, where there are marginalized groups of retail property theft, movable property, vintage, on the one hand; penetration into people's homes, we have all seen pathetic films and reports about elderly people left without son support, who are victims of similar abuse. A lot of popularity has picked up the case of an elderly woman who has a firearm to defend herself against thieves. The bad news is that so far the law is not tolerant enough to those who defend their property. We propose an amendment to the Penal Code in two directions. First of all, the Institute of Inescapable Defense, an institute that exists in our law and for the expansion of which has already been made, attempts. We have come to know the practice of the Constitutional Court because such an attempt was in most part declared unconstitutional. At the moment, the inevitable defense is allowed when there is an attack on a person, he must respond with the intensity with which the attack is. It is not clear what calculator must carry within it to calculate what the intensity of this attack is and how strongly it must respond. The only exception when it is said that the limits of inevitable defense are not exceeded is when it is penetrated into his home by breaking and entering or by force. It is obvious that these texts, although they are good in themselves, far from running out of hypotheses that must be covered by the Law, and anyone able to protect themselves when there is no one else to protect him, I mean the authorities of the law, to feel at ease to use their power, their weapons, if any, and to counteract the attacker. In this case, we propose that any illegal intrusion into a residence be punishable, that is, if you ventilate your apartment for example and someone breaks through the window, it is no less dangerous for us than it is for us to break the window and enter. If, in any way, by fraud or by means of special means,...................... and so open the door and enter, is this less dangerous? And you're gonna be less scared when you see an uninvited guest in your apartment who certainly hasn't come to do you any favors? This is the first hypothesis we want to sign in the Penal Code. The second is common and it includes an attack aimed at the life, health, freedom or sexual integrity of the defender when the attacker is armed when he is more than one attacker or when this attack is at night. Why? Because the assailant chooses to attack himself, he is the prepared one, he knows what he is doing, while the victim is obviously under stress and obviously under these circumstances, especially when he sees against himself a crowd or when he is attacked at night, can't judge the intensity of the attack, if you will, can't even judge whether the weapon that is directed against him is real. Then he can defend himself without being responsible for the intensity of that protection. We believe that this will restore a natural justice in relations and enable every conscientious citizen to protect his life, his honor, his health, in fact the most valuable things that human personality has. The second part of the bill refers to minor thefts. At the moment we have a member -- 218b -- which says that in the cases of so-called minor burglaries, as well as some more severely qualified members of the thefts, when they are up to two minimum salaries -- you know, two minimum salaries are currently over BGN 1,100, it is constantly growing, production can be completed with an administrative penalty -- a fine of between 100 and 300 BGN. This may be repeated to a third if the total value of the crimes committed within one year is below BGN 150. For us, this is a paraxelance tolerating the so-called small-minded stealings, which, truely, are not perhaps as popular in criminal films, but in return, reflect the daily lives of people who are terrorized every day by marginal crime, whose courtyards are being stolen from every day some inventory or petty items. And when the thief is caught, he says, "Here's your stuff, I return the chickens for example, let's settle this with a penalty to pass, and the next day I can steal them again. So, until I'm caught. This vicious circle must end. Every second crime has to be investigated in general order and the thief goes to jail. For the first one, the value that determines its minority must be reduced to a minimum wage, in our view. We tend to comment on a lower limit between first and second readings. These are our proposals, which are fully focused on combating domestic crime and which give honest and honest people the right to protect their lives, property and dignity. We hope they will be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! All lawyers in this Chamber are aware that we are facing a great challenge because the Institute for Inescapable Defense is classic in criminal law. There were generations of lawyers working on it. Theorists and practitioners. No society, not only in Bulgaria, but also in the world, has reached the perfect balance finding and satisfactory end result. There are volumes of work written, rivers of ink taken out on the subject. We from the United Patriarchs in the face of various formations over the years have repeatedly tried to solve this problem, to move and update legislation in view of the dynamic and very dangerous criminological situation in the country. I am looking forward to the changes we have made in 2012, then in 2014. As a matter of fact, in plenary, we have found a response from the various political forces. The various editions of the National Assembly were actively involved in the debate. We have received little support from other political forces, including GERB. In any case, after 1997, when the relevant amendments to the Law were made, until now there has been no change in the Institute of the Inescapable Defense, which is listed in the general part of Art. 12 of the penal code. And then this change was the half-life, far from having fulfilled its role and failed to resolve the issues, especially with Gypsy crime, which most often leads to the use of the Institute of Inescapable Defence. The criminal situation in the country is dynamic, extremely complicated and new changes are needed after 1997. These changes we propose. Whether they're the best, I can't tell. In our previous proposals we consulted, advised and our proposals did not pass without the participation of prominent lawyers from Sofia University................................................................................... The current changes are not very different, but the aim of the proposal that we make from the United Patriarchs is to provoke a debate. Any changes can be made between the two readings. We'll consult with the best lawyers. It's a high-level matter of law. We should all be aware of that. It is difficult to claim some instance for an extreme and correct assessment of the situation, of the problem, and we must approach very carefully. Colleagues, let's give this experience a chance to make changes for the first time since 1997. You know, I think this Parliament will remain with one of the most important things he has done. This matter is very important and should no longer be neglected. A chance can be given if you vote for the bill we are submitting from the "United Patriarchs" and between the two readings to be involved, after a very thorough debate, authority in the area of criminal law, with which to reach a good result in connection with art. 12 of the general section of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill provided to your attention has come a relatively long way since we prepared such texts in 2015 with the assistance and after consulting the Prosecutor General, with representatives of the judiciary. Unfortunately, matter is indeed complex and carries the risk of allowing an undercover crime to be committed for inevitable defense. The texts we offer you, believe me, are well-considered, balanced, coherent, and do not pose any threat or risk of committing such a criminally prepared crime. If you get acquainted carefully, the texts are simple, clear and clear. The only thing they would achieve is the purpose for which they were created, namely to protect people's lives. Notice, for now, at this stage we do not offer you protection of the property of the people because in these texts we offer. 12, para. 3, for example, there in no way, unfortunately, have we been able to protect people's property, because if we do not have the element of illegal entry into a home, or an act of unlawful entry into a home, if we do not have a threat to life, health, freedom and sex privacy from one or more persons armed or at night, then we do not defend property. As a legislative body, to some extent we do not respect the Constitution. We realize that. Someone's gonna say, "What can happen?" Very simply, two tough guys ring the doorbell and say: we are incasators from the water and we want to see how much you are spending hot water. You open them up, you let them in, and they go with the benevolent smiles and start collecting the expensive paintings that you had the indiscretion to collect each of them worth several tens of thousands of leva, and with a smile come out of the house. This, for example, has not been sanctioned in these texts, but I hope, with your cooperation, that in the discussion between first and second readings, we will also consider this. On the other hand, frequent cases of abuse on life for small sums make us debtors to society. As much as we do not enjoy it, at some point we must take this clear penalty measure. We must apply the firm iron sanction and force of the Law to start introducing order and legality in Bulgaria. I would like to remind you that in the 18th century in the centre of London gallows were raised and hanged maids who stole a penny from their master. No, back then England was no more legal than Bulgaria, nor were the then or present English citizens more disciplined than the Bulgarians anything like that. Purely and simply the sanction of the Law has introduced this order and this legality in the present Britain, and not only there. So, as much as we don't want to, sooner or later we have to go through these increased sanctions to stop this extermination, especially to the elderly around the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I have lived to hear from the stands of the National Assembly a decision to change art. 12 in the Penal Code. The negotiating colleague was right, saying that we are currently opening up one of the toughest, most complex, most challenging texts and institutes in the Criminal Code with the proposal of our fellow Members. Mr. Shopov, you're absolutely right. It's a very heavy matter. The only thing that bothers me in your personal statement was that once again, the orientation towards the debate on the subject of the inevitable defence is oriented towards scientific legal thought, and I believe that it must, at all costs, be the right-making thought. The judges and prosecutors must be very, very, very involved with this institute and when changing it. With regard to the bill itself, colleagues, I have a few things that bother me and prevent him from accepting the Prima Vista as you suggested. Mr. Simeonov just said some of these things. Some of them I'll say. In the text for changes in art. 12, para. 3 Cleanly and simply miss the even more frightening option of entering the house legally and then not having any influence on you. 3. Problem! In the bill you propose, you talk about things that I find difficult to explain. I hope that there are people here who will explain to us at a later stage why we remove the term "intrusion" and replace it with "entering"? In my opinion, this is a major problem in the proposed text. But the text will look at it further, now the idea. In this room there are enough colleagues of mine who know that I am a supporter of an even more extreme change in para. 3 "Cleaning of para. 3 without the enumeration of anything. Saying that if the attack was carried out in your home, it wouldn't allow you to be in a situation of overreacting to the inevitable defense. That's my opinion. There must be colleagues with other opinions. Therefore, colleagues, since this text of the Penal Code has many opinions, it, apart from purely legal, also becomes political. We cannot allow ourselves proposals for changes to such texts in basic legal status in the absence of half a hall. We cannot allow ourselves lightly not just for this reason, but for the simple reason that by adopting this text, it will have to be applied, but when talking about art. 12 of the Penal Code, we are talking about severe physical damage and death. The application of this text justifies or accuses people of murder and severe bodily damage. Here the debate must also be politically, widely supported by all experts and by all people. It bothers me the moment we accept such a thing, but otherwise I am extremely pleased that we are opening the debate right on par. 3 of art. 12 which, by the way, transforms our Institute of Inescapable Defence.... the Bulgarian Institute of Inescapable Defence.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3. I suggest very carefully that we work on a very wide scale and broad debate.. professional and political, with society and with the people here who defend the grandmother with the weapon, but not exactly. Because if someone breaks into her house, she can't use it, and we'll arm this someone. The debate is very complicated and we need to assess when we do it, how we do it, and why we do it, whether to work or for something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u18	My lines will be very brief, Madam President. Dear colleague, give us a chance to support this bill in order to continue the debate. If we don't vote at first reading, obviously the debate will be over. There is no excuse that the hall is half empty because it can remain so until the end of the term. We will not stop the work of the National Assembly. As you can see, we stand here and bear our responsibility. Give this debate a chance to happen. In fact, this proposal is aged one year in the National Assembly without being seen by the Legal Committee or any of the other committees to which it is addressed. That's my request. By the way, it was imported based on tens of thousands of signatures from across the country. Then our group "United Patriarchs" took up the commitment and submitted the bill. After all, you can see that this is the minimum. We have limited ourselves from many things we wanted to do so that we could be fully in the spirit of the constitutional decision......................what canceled the changes during Kostov's time. We believe that the text is absolutely constitutionally correct and we absolutely agree to expand the limits of inevitable defence in many directions, including ownership, as Mr. Simeonov said, and what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Second line? For the second line Mr. Simeonov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Manev, I also disagree that you rely on possible presence and possible support in the form of a broad political debate by the MPs from the BSP. So far, in the National Assembly, I have not seen in any of their votes and actions any principles, any idea. In this Chamber, it is not good to speak in absence, but I think it is an undisputed finding, in this Chamber of the National Assembly the group of BSP has nothing to do with the group of the Forty-third National Assembly, where reason, understanding, agreement can be sought here. There is a categorically blind rejection of any proposal, so whether they will be here, whether they will not be, they will not take political responsibility because they have not grown up, they are not at this political level to take responsibility. I can now predict what the president's action will be. Yeah, he'll reject it. But so what? Each and every one of us is here by the people's choice, by the election of voters, by the voters. Are we responsible for our actions? Is she connected to the actions, to the presence or absence of the other MPs? She's single. My request is that we take our responsibility, vote at first reading and possibly discuss the Law wisely if necessary with the utmost delay of the second discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Manev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u22	My fellow Members, on the first line, I will simply say that I did not debate the constitutional decision by way of a non-constitutional decision to the particular texts. It's no coincidence, because we're just not looking at the Bill right now. There's something to say. Clearly and precisely, the Constitutional Court has indicated where the balance has been broken, which will probably be disputed when we enter into a debate on whether property, property, can be measured at risk to human life and so on. But this is the theory that we can debate in any form of working groups, of committees, of second reading, before second reading and so on. The second part of the line for colleagues on the left side of the room. You are right, colleague Simeonov, this is the most irresponsible, unproductive, most harmful opposition for Bulgaria, which the parliament has seen. It is a fact, but the fact is that it is also the most populist party. And as a populist party on this text, it will exercise itself on your heads and ours and make populism of what you care about your constituents, gathered you said how many thousands of signatures, and on the responsible, state-owned decision that lies ahead for the people we are in this House to take. Because, again, the adoption of such a text is now a responsibility which, from the very next day, from its entry into force, we begin to apply it, and it is related to human lives and to the health of people. When the populists, who do not come into the Chamber, are hiding from their responsibility, have said nothing here, they will not respect the principle by not saying in time to be silent, but will blurt out their populist ideas and lies every single day. That's what I meant when I said that we, by taking it into an empty room on the left, would have a problem with the text. It is I who will never be a lawyer of this part of the Chamber and its current leadership, but that there are experts there.. there are experts, and their opinion would be heard in the committees, surely it would be heard! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. For a personal explanation, Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u24	Dear Mr. Manev, with the answer, I do not add any negativity to the fact that you have criticised me, I almost said that only the theorists and lecturers from Sofia University should be involved in what we do. The issue is very practical from the practice, from the life and is constantly dumped on Bulgarian citizens with terrible power. That's why, Mr. Manev, practitioners should be drawn here, people from the Attorney General's office, prosecutors, from the courts. This will be a big, heavy debate in the society where many participants will be involved. We've got a lot of work to do. At first glance, there is only one text. "The 12th of the Penal Code, but I imagine if we now vote at first reading the bill, what will follow from here. You're wrong that the BSP colleagues won't get involved. They have supported us with the previous contributions from the Attack of Bills, and many of them have a positive view of this idea - twenty-two years have passed since the last amendment. I imagine there's another possibility that he might be returned by the president. Maybe there's a complaint at the Constitutional Court. The previous time in 1997, when the lawyers with our breath were watching these changes, there was a constitutional complaint, under which the Constitutional Court ruled on the radicality of the bill, as it was then adopted. Now that's not out of the question, but let's have the courage to go this way. The proposed bill is the start, the beginning of this thorny road, I'd say, for lawyers. I can imagine what kind of work it would be, but that's what power is, and history is written by a parliament, to make decisions on complicated cases, not to slide on the surface. Here we delve into the holy light of right, into the depths of things. I am sure that between the two readings the BSP colleagues will take the attitude and enrich these ideas, they cannot fail to do so. We know the attitude of Mr. Mihov, Professor Stoilov, who are lecturers at Sofia University, we have discussed and talked about these issues with them. You talked about the political issue. Yeah, he's political because it's an increase in repression. I have always pleaded to strengthen the repression, Mr. Manev, under Bulgarian Criminal Law, in opposition to the liberal approach and the idea of lowering repression and protecting criminals, not those who are victims of crime. You remember the case of Mr. Opitz, the man was in prison, and he wasn't the only one. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Since I'm running out of time, there's no conflict, there's no point in resisting and opposing each other, but I'm asking you all to vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Mr. Angelov, you have stated a wish to speak. Come in, you have the floor. Shall we extend the time? Please extend the time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The proposals that we from the United Patriarchs have made in the Penal Code have one goal to solve a huge 30-year problem in Bulgaria. Thirty years, mostly in small towns, outlaws of certain groups on the elderly, property, property, personality. Thirty years, unfortunately, the Bulgarian judiciary and Bulgarian politicians react too tolerantly to these problems. It is high time for the Bulgarian Parliament and Bulgarian politicians to take their responsibility and stand behind the security of the people.... every Bulgarian can protect his life and property. Certain people from certain communities can't come into the village yard to steal chickens and lambs, beat up elderly people, and then say it's a minor crime, and impose a fine on him. No, these people should be in prison. Some say, "We don't have enough seats in prisons." Well, we will! These people cannot be on the streets of Bulgaria and harass every Bulgarian citizen daily. Nobody rapes, kills and steals, and we close our eyes. That is why we from the General Assembly want all parliamentary groups, including those who are absent today from the DPS and BSP, not even from the Chamber, to make a press conference or from somewhere to say: We support these proposals because 30 years Bulgarians are not protected. It is true that in recent years the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior have taken a number of measures against domestic crime and these crimes. It is true that there is already an effect on the fact that these crimes are being reduced, but we must give the legal form to be able to deal with these problems, because some say: "We cannot bind property to whether human life is at stake. " - Well, how can we not?! When he comes in to steal the granny's winter and meets her at the doorstep, what will happen to her? They're the ones who need to know they can't steal a jar when they know they're going to jail for even one jar, and the grandmother won't get hurt. We call on all the political party GERB and the other parties in the Bulgarian Parliament to support the bill at first reading, to show the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian society that we really want to solve their problems and stand behind their security. Between the two readings, let there be debates, there be other texts, everything accurate and fine, so that the texts can work, but we must not leave these problems unsolved for 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Lazarov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill that has been tabled is short, but, as has been noted, the first paragraph concerns a very important matter which is perhaps from 50. 60 that, for more years, has a lasting and stable practice in the implementation of the Institute of Inescapable Defense and, in this case, it seems more about exceeding the limits of inevitable defence. I will not dwell on this paragraph, moreover, that once the bill has been tabled, there are opinions of the Supreme Court of Cassation, of the Supreme Court of Cassation, of the Ministry of Justice, there are also decisions of the Constitutional Court on previous amendments to this Institute. The reasons are clear enough, clear enough by people who are respected judges and lecturers, respected lawyers, members of the Constitutional Court. Everyone here is talking about having a debate, a broad debate, discussing, preciseing texts. Yeah, I guess that's the way it's supposed to be. Perhaps it should have been before the Bill was introduced, but it is a fact. The second paragraph. Dear colleagues, art. 218b. It's given to one article. 424 in the Penal Code, which indicates eight other members, except for art. 218b, which concerns thefts, and art. 206 The possession and possession of property and related eight other members, which are intended to impose an administrative penalty. They are related to health, the environment I will not list, they are written, to standardisation, to cases where, of course, a minor case is all these nine with art. 218b, when put into operation enterprises, heat plants without treatment plants, etc., etc. What is offered in this bill? Only for art. 218b the fine to rise. I'm going to ask: how old? In the other collections from 100 to 300, as is currently under art. 21b. The compositions are specified. But how much do you propose to increase it, colleagues? In the text which you have inserted........................................................................... 1, the words "from 100 to 300" shall be replaced by "500" to "1000". The others stay from 100 to 300. Yes, colleagues, but in the motives that you have put in, because in this part they are also very short, although the institute of the first paragraph is really very complex, but we accept that. In the reasons you have indicated the increase of the fine from 100 to 300 to impose a fine from 300 to 500. What are we going to discuss now, what you have pointed out in the motives, from 300 to 500, or what you have indicated in the text, from 500 to 1000? Perhaps if there were before discussing what you think, this contradiction would not be allowed between the motives and the text. But let's take it from 500 to 1000 or, as you wrote in the reasoning, from 300 to 500. But, see, there is an imbalance with this increase in the penalties with the intended administrative penalties. Where are they left from 100 to 300? Well, it concerned the health and life of people, which concerned standardisation, an elevator, if it is released and does not meet the standards, may fall, perish or receive bodily disabilities. That's the imbalance you suggested. This one, first. Secondly, you propose to remove the value of the object, which is over 150 BGN. I mean, now art. Article 218b provides that if he has committed two or more acts, Article 218b shall not apply. 218b, i.e. the administrative penalty, is to go to another punishment if the value is over 150 BGN. Colleagues, you, by removing this bill, have been submitted by BSP to remove minor cases of theft as punishment, Article will be applied. 9. I'll just apply art. Nine! There will be no pre-trial proceedings, criminal proceedings or proceedings will be terminated. This one, first. Second, the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments also provides that the administrative punishing authority may apply art. 9. So these hypotheses will go unpunished. Between first and second readings, we'll debate it. I agree with the proposal in your first part, two minimum salaries. Indeed, the minimum wage at the time when the text was changed, the latest amendments were from 2000 in this part, was very low. Now it grows, it is high.. 560 BGN, it will get even higher and there is a reson the two minimum wages to be replaced really with a minimum wage. I support this part of the bill, although there are many other problems here, honourable Members. What are the problems? There is no uniform system for the implementation of art. 424 with all of the listed, including Art. 424 21b. I won't! If someone does one of those deeds, the most debatized thing here is art. 218b, theft in one county, and he did it in the other county, no single system. Yeah, it's affecting the system because the fine could be imposed by the mayor if he gets the D.A.'s office. Yeah, there's a case in the D.A.'s office for every case, but it's not in the same system. If you want to see if it has been applied to art. 218b, every district attorney's office has to do, do, consult. This one, first. Secondly, in the fight against petty hooliganism or the Small Hooliganity Act, where 15 days of minor hooliganism are imposed in the Ministry of Interior, there is also no uniform system. You cannot refer to this person whether such a conviction has been applied or not. This is the other problem. We really want to bring order to the application of art. Article 218b and the others under Art. 218b. 424. We need to talk about having such a unified system, this being reflected somewhere, because it does not now reflect either in the evidence of criminality or in the Law on Combating Small Hooliganism. The problems are serious. I think it's time, it's a good thing you put that question. It should be solved, but still need a little bit more comprehensive, not a piece. The penal code, colleagues and lawyers know, is still a slender system, and we, somewhere touching something, are breaking this system. Again, the remaining eight texts of art. 424, where the administrative penalty is envisaged, the administrative penalty shall be applied, as referred to in art. 424, do not concern health, some of them concern people's lives. All we do here is touch, lift. Again, I will not dwell on the contradiction. It does not yet have much justification in this part of the Bill's motives. It wasn't that fatal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Lazarov, I very much respect your expertise in criminal law and trial, but I believe that much of your arguments are actually arguments for second reading and are not in terms of general principles and the philosophy of the proposed bill. What you said about the ratio of changes in art. Article 218b of the Criminal Code and Article 218b of the Criminal Code. 424 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is true, but this omission is removed at the second reading of the Bill with the creation of the corresponding provision so that there is a synchronization between the two. I accept that argument, but, again, this omission is removed between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lazarov, at least this topic is suitable for theorizing, because while you are opposed to the adoption of laws in pieces, an adult person is being cut to pieces at the moment. It could be you tomorrow. I couldn't hear you in general agree to introduce changes that would be dissuasive in relation to this type of widespread crime or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. I don't see anyone asking for a third line of speech. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u34	Dear Mr. Simeonov, I'll start backwards. The obvious listening to the pieces is what got you off and you didn't hear me say: yes, I support the condition that two minimum wages be replaced by one. But it is when you listen to what you want to hear. That's the first time you've heard in pieces, you haven't listened to what I've said. As far as the theorizing goes. Ladies and gentlemen, what do you propose we do now, between first and second readings, to increase penalties or administrative penalties, to raise the penalty between first and second readings? Firstly, the Rules do not allow us to now list all the basic texts. Secondly, excuse me, fellow Members, but we are still talking about penalties, penal repression, administrative penalty. How are we going to raise sanctions at just one reading between first and second? That's what I meant. Otherwise, Mr. Simeonov, yes, I said: I support the bill in this part and I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will be brief. Whether the BSP is in the Chamber or not, it doesn't matter whether the DPS is in the Chamber or not, the important thing is that the Bulgarian Parliament works and the Bulgarian Parliament has the right to make decisions. We must make this decision because it is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. It is clear to you that 5, 10, 100 people will now ask on the street, will say: "Yes, this needs to change. With this proposal of the United Patriarchs, we are opening this very issue. Of course, the changes will be made between first and second readings. I understand that five lawyers to ask, the five will have a different opinion. That's legal. No offense. But five Bulgarian citizens to ask, and the five will have the same opinion. They will say: "Yes, that must change, because this promiscuous plunder must stop. Therefore, my appeal to you is: let us now support it at first reading, and then in the Legal Commission to close all lawyers, we will lock them out, if they have to, come out in a few days, if they want, and white smoke to release, now with the Pope are modern these things, but then to come out and say: "Behold, these changes have been made, these paragraphs have been changed, these points have been changed, from now on we are working in this way and Bulgarian citizens can be calm." However, now, by accepting this text at first reading, we will also deliver the message. Yes, the Bulgarian Parliament wants to comply with the citizens of Bulgaria and yes, the Bulgarian Parliament will change things in such a way that it will not allow them to be beaten, robbed, killed, etc. Everything else is details. Of course, any text can be found some imperfections, besmirch, maaná, as some languages say. I will not say it is funny, but if a lawyer becomes a maanjia, it is better not to comply with this, but to comply with what the Bulgarian people want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable importers, as you have also heard from colleagues, we will support the bill at first reading. However, I wish this bill would be reviewed in the Legal Commission. I know he's been defending himself for a long time, but to hear all points of view. As my colleague Shopov said, the matter is extremely complex and serious. Therefore, in summary, I will only express in respect of art. 12, para. 3 your observations. The bill has three negative opinions from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, from the Ministry of Justice and from the Supreme Court of Cassation, there is also an interpretation solution. In this regard, I would like to say that the legal theory and the caselaw have long defined the Institute of Inescapable Defense and have given the criteria for assessing whether it should be applied correctly or whether it is exceeded. The order of Art. 12, para. 2 of the Penal Code requires protection to be consistent with the nature and danger of the attack. The judicial practice in these matters is consistent and consistent. It is in the judgment of the Supreme Court No 12 of 1973 in criminal case No 11 of 1973 that there is only an excess of the limits of inevitable defence when the defence clearly exceeds what is necessary to repel the attack. The discrepancy is evident if it is clearly expressed and does not raise any doubt. The conformity between the defence and the attack shall be determined by the population of all elements relating to the strength and intensity of the attack and the protection and importance of the protected and damaged object, the degree of danger threatening the attacks, its forces and defence capabilities, the means of attack and protection, the location and time of the attack and so on. It is therefore clear that for each particular case, a thorough assessment must be carried out following clarification of the relevant facts, whether there is a correlation between the defence and the attack, whether there is an excess of the limits of inevitable defence, because we believe that this is a factual and not legal issue and it is not possible that the numerous and diverse signs determining the nature of the danger of any specific attack are Cassuistically regulated in the legal norms. Therefore, we think that in several of these signs, characterized by the attack, by the assumption that there is no excess of inevitable defence, are precisely those in art. 12, para. 3 shall not require overall judgement based on the established facts as to whether the protection corresponds to the attack. According to judgment No 19 of 1997 in Constitutional Case No 13 of 1997, the Constitutional Court had the opportunity to give a detailed ruling on these issues in relation to the changes in art. 12, para. 3 of the Penal Code. Several signs were then proposed, assuming that there was no excess of inevitable defence. The Constitutional Court has indicated that the clear discrepancy between the attack and the defence is in fact excluded in these hypotheses, thus excluding the public danger of all acts by which the immediate anti-legal attack is rejected, characterised by the signs contained. All signs have been analysed and it is assumed that they do not run out of the entire factual composition of the specific features of the individual cases, which in their aggregate determine the nature and danger of the attack. Importers of changes in art. 12, para. 3 of the Penal Code are familiar with the Decision, which I quoted just now, and in their motives they have written that their proposal does not reproduce the wording of this text since 1997 and that they have complied with the Decision by stating that they believe that the repealed changes in art. 12, para. 3 since 1997 did not contain a sufficiently clear outline of the nature and danger of the attack. We believe that such a clear outline for each particular attack is not possible with a legal norm of the proposed species. Colleagues have once again suggested that the same signs that have already been rejected by the Constitutional Court as an unconstitutional attack be carried out by two or more persons or by an armed person, be carried out at night, so that colleagues have united several signs and require their communal presence, which does not change anything in substance, so we believe that the bill is subject to a great debate, a great debate. Let's give ourselves enough time between first and second readings to involve all stakeholders and succeed! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines? There are no lines to the statement of the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! I am glad that a little more than a year after the project was submitted, we are looking at it today at first reading and more than the fact that our colleagues at GERB said they are ready to support the draft law at first reading. In recent years, this issue is really important for the Bulgarian society. For the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, for the ordinary farmer, the security of property, domestic crime are very important issues because, unfortunately, not only does the Law not sufficiently protect them, our compatriots, but also because the institutions do not always manage to deal with this problem. I highly appreciate the expertise of colleague Lazarov, Mrs. Alexandrova and will not go into details about how long there is a gap in the draft law and existing, acting Penal Code. It is true that in time between first and second reading, many of these issues can be clarified. I would like to say that in recent years we have witnessed that changes in legislation are often made, and if we miss something this time, it is not fatal in a few months to complete it, but people expect us to change and we are obliged to do it in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. I very much wish there was something else in this law that would concern the security of the Bulgarian police officer, the Bulgarian serviceman. I am ashamed as a Bulgarian that an armed officer does not have the opportunity to respond to the attack of an individual or group of people and to retain his authority and the service he performs. I think we're in debt to these people, too. We should also take action in this regard as soon as possible. We have examples from both Europe and America. Ownership, security are important factors, depending on legislation, and we, as lawmakers, must do our best to make those fulfilling their duties feel at ease, working and protecting us normal citizens. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u41	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We've run out of speeches. I'm closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs from the couloirs to vote. We move on to the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 18 April 2018. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Applause.]] We move on to the next point of the Programme, and it is the First Voting of Bills to amend and supplement the State Property Act. We've got reports they're gonna introduce us to... [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u42	Honourable President, I ask for a procedure on the newly voted bill for a maximum extension of the period between the first and second votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u43	We're going back to the newly voted bill. We are voting on a proposal for a maximum extension of the period between first and second readings. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Once again, I announce the next bill, which will be to the attention of the Members of the National Assembly: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE OWNITY. Here you are to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on State Property, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, Iskren Vassilev Veselinov, Georgi Kolev Kolev, Evgenia Biserova Alexieva, Alexander Koychev Ivanov, Mladen Nikolov Shishkov and Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov on 16 April 2019, and the Bill supplementing the Law on State Property, No 954-01-25, submitted by Mladen Nikolov Shishkov and a group of MPs on 17 April 2019. At its regular meeting held on 24 April 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending the State Property Act, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 16 April 2019, and a Draft Law supplementing the State Property Act, No 954-01-25, submitted by Mladen Nikolov Shishkov and a group of MPs on 17 April 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Veselina Terziyska, Secretary General; Mrs. Daniela Petrova, Head of State Property Department, and Mrs. Ivelina Mincheva, State Expert in the Department of State Property. The bill amending the Law on State Property, No 954-01-24, was presented by Mr. Shishkov, who pointed out that he optimized the procedure relating to the expropriation of private properties under the Law on State Property. It is proposed, within a seven-day period of time, that the court allow the pre-execution of the alienation act, where necessary, to protect particularly important state or public interests in the realization and construction of significant national sites and objects of national importance. Pre-execution is envisaged when a detailed development plan is in place, with which the property is assigned for the construction of a national establishment or object of national importance, the property is not only a residence of the owner and the fixed compensation is paid at the account of the entitled persons or at the account of the district governor. The Bill retains the possibility of the investor in possession of the property and of obtaining a construction permit, providing that the court, upon admission of the preliminary execution, will also determine a monetary guarantee of up to one third of the amount of compensation paid by the investor. The order in force to determine and pay benefits shall be maintained and the provisions relating to the communication of the estrangement act shall be refined by dropping the obligation to draw up protocols signed by neighbours whose aim is to certify that the persons concerned are not found at the relevant address. In order to ensure the rights and interests of the owner of the alienated property and to ensure the right to judicial protection by the Bill, it is proposed that the notification to interested parties be carried out in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code, which provides for the right to the protection of the property of citizens and organisations. On behalf of the importers, Law No 954-01-25 was presented by Mr. Shishkov, who pointed out that the existing provisions of the Law on State Property provide for the possibility of property compensation to owners of forced alienated agricultural land or forest areas and specified that there is a prohibition on compensation with property when the alienated property is less than 3 acres for fields, 2 acres for meadows, 1 decare for permanent crops and 1 decare for forest. He pointed out that the proposed draft proposed the creation of a provision to remove the ban on property compensation when the alienated properties belong to one owner and their total amount is more than 50 decares. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works indicated that they support both laws, expressing confidence that their adoption will achieve speed and efficiency in the construction of infrastructure and other projects of national and regional importance. The Minister of Justice pointed out that the proposed bills were justified and found a balance between the public interest and the private interest of the owner of the property. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Dimitar Lazarov, who expressed their support for the submitted bills and added that between first and second readings they can make proposals that will specify some of the texts. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 13 votes for the State Property Act, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs on 16 April 2019; - with 13 votes for the State Property Act, No 954-01-25, submitted by Mladen Nikolov Shishkov and a group of MPs on 17 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Sabeva. A Report on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government was also received under the bill under consideration. He will introduce us to Mr. Honest Vesselinoff. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the State Property Act, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 18 April 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft Law amending the State Property Act, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 16 April 2019. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Alexander Nenkov. The adoption of the proposed bill aims to optimise and accelerate the process of building significant national sites and objects of national importance. The Project shall specify the texts of art. 39b, para. 1 and 2, by regulating the possibility, within seven days of receipt of a request by the authority issuing the alienation act and/or by the investor, that the court in a closed session allow the pre-execution of the alienation act where necessary to protect particularly important state and/or public interests. The pre-execution of the act shall be permitted in the case of the required claims, with a detailed plan in force, the property may be assigned to a national establishment or object of national importance; the property shall not be the sole residence of the owner, and the compensation determined by the act shall be paid to the account of the entitled persons, but in the cases referred to in art. 39a, para. 1.. on the account of the district governor. It is envisaged that the communication of the estrangement act should be carried out only by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code, which ensures to a sufficient extent the right of protection of citizens. It is proposed by the order for the pre-execution of the act to be granted that the court also lays down a monetary guarantee of up to one third of the compensation paid, which is due by the investor. The investor may be put into possession and obtain a construction permit after the guarantee is lodged at the expense of the governor. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes in the House, without the opposition and 1 vote in the National Assembly, proposed that the Law amending the Law on State Property, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Will we hear the presentation of the imported bills by their importers? Mr. Shishkov, come in. You will present the bill under heading 954-01-25, submitted on 17 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Law on the Supplement to the State Property Act proposes that in cases of forced alienation of properties representing agricultural lands or forestry territories owned by a natural or legal person with a total area of more than 50 decares for the construction of a national establishment, property compensation may be granted, such as restrictions under art. 42a, para. 2 on the minimum size of the properties not to be applied. This bill has been prepared as a result of a practice that has been imposed in recent years in the expropriation of property, and mainly for the construction of important, significant sites for the state. Where there are contradictions between the method of compensation, since the methods of compensation are several, sometimes occurs so that the properties have a small area and cannot be replaced equally with other properties, since the law on ownership and use of agricultural land limits the types of permanent use in certain areas. Thus, the demands of some of the owners who prefer to be compensated by the exchange of property rather than money cannot be met, and that is exactly where the changes are. It is precisely in cases where the total area of alienated property is significant that in this case we have proposed 50 decares, which is a comparative one, I would say, balanced value because below these 50 decares we enter the possibility of abuse when this total area is over 50 decares, there is an opportunity to replace instead of monetary compensation. This is the meaning of the changes to this law. With the proposed text of the new para. 3 in art. 42a provides sufficient protection to the interests and rights of owners, as well as the State, through subsequent rational use of the properties according to their intended purpose on agricultural land or forestry territories with a view to carrying out their activities. This means that owners who really want to deal with agriculture and the people to whom this is theirs, I would say, a professional calling, will have the opportunity to obtain equivalent property instead of cash, which they still have to invest again in some agricultural land or forest areas. In this way, their activities are also alleviated, no additional administrative obstacles are created. The intended purpose of the proposed changes shall be in full compliance with the provisions of art. 17, para. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as, of course, with art. 21 of the provisions of the Constitution, according to which the land is basically national wealth, which enjoys special protection of the state, and the arable land is used only for agricultural purposes. I hope, fellow Members, that if there are any remarks between the first and second votes, they will be tabled and submitted to comments and proposals, respectively, so that the texts are indeed as clear and optimal as possible. The texts are extremely important and I would like to call on you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Shishkov. Will we hear a presentation of the bill submitted by the National Representative Alexander Rumenov Nenkov and a group of MPs under No 954-01-24? Here you are, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! The next bill on the amendments to the State Property Act, which I would like to introduce you to, I dare say, is a fundamental bill, or rather the changes in it. The search for a balance between common interest, our desire to build important infrastructure sites faster, as well as a balance against private property and its integrity, as in the Constitution, is very difficult and thin. The changes we propose in the State Property Act are precisely our desire to find this balance. On the one hand, the public interest to be preserved, to have a better infrastructure, to talk about sites of national importance and, on the other, the owners of the properties which are subject to alienation, to be fairly compensated in advance, as laid down in the Constitution in art. 17. The bill that we have introduced with our colleagues regulates precisely the way in which this should be done when we talk about objects of national importance declared in relation to the Law on Construction in the territory, their alienation and the procedure. The possibility that the investor, respectively the state, should enter these properties and start building, to obtain a building permit when he has implemented specifically defined, recorded in the Law, circumstances without which the court cannot allow any prior entry into the property of the respective private. The first and most important condition to introduce the investor on the property and obtain a construction permit is that there must be a detailed development plan in force. The second inviolable condition is that this is not the only residence of the owner of the property. The third essential circumstance is that the compensation provided for in the estranged procedure of the owner be transferred to his account, or if it is not found, then that amount shall be transferred to the District Governor's account, only and only to the owner compensated in the foreseeable future. You know, there is Constitutional Court Decision No 6 of 2013, which declared unconstitutional the previous changes to the State Property Act regulating prior entry into the property for two reasons. The first reason was that here I can say that the Constitutional Court has correctly taken this decision. Before the Constitutional Court came forward with this decision, it appeared in the previous law that property owners should hardly follow the Official Gazette to understand that an estrangement procedure had begun, and they had no opportunity to defend themselves before the court. Therefore, the Constitutional Court's decision is justified. The other essential thing in the Constitutional Court's decision is precisely the advance compensation that the owners had to receive, as this is very clearly and precisely written in the Constitution. 17. What are we trying to do with this bill? Of course, as I just said, on the one hand, to protect the national interest, without in any way damaging the right of private property and the fair compensation that each of these owners under the Constitution is obliged to receive. The second, of course, to defend and satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision, as signed. Therefore, the two main, important points in this bill are, on the one hand, what we have accepted.......................................................... the private property owners affected by alienation procedures................................ 61 of it, where it is clearly and accurately regulated the way in which property owners should be notified. Therefore, it will not be necessary for property owners to monitor the Official Gazette to become familiar with the estranged procedures that have been initiated. The second, not less significant, is the way of entering the property in advance. What are we doing? First of all, once the important conditions are met: to have a detailed development plan entered into force, not to be the sole residence of the owner through which an infrastructure site will pass, as well as the preliminary assessment of the property concerned and the transfer of that assessment to the account of the person concerned................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'll give you an example: for example now the southern arc from 220 properties that are subject to compensation, 50% have entered into force, the other 50% are waiting for the court's final assessment of the estrangement procedure of the owners. ==External links====================================================================================================================================================================================*==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== What have we planned, and we believe that this really satisfies the Constitutional Court's decision? The most important task is to find a balance between public interest and private interest. If under these conditions the court states that you can enter the property concerned, we also provide a guarantee separately.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Much more correct and much more polite, if you will in the caselaw, it will be this amount to be 1/3 and it to be fixed. If the court subsequently ruled that the valuation made for the property concerned was lower than the market, then this 1/3 would be due and would be a guarantee to the owners that they would receive a higher remuneration. The second thing that is very significant and differs from the previous bills is the mechanism by which owners will be compensated for the period from which the state entered into their property until the final entry into force of the estrangement act. A number of different hypotheses are envisaged, which, I dare say, satisfy really private interest. If, for example, the land is agricultural, it is assessed and it is seen what part of the production of agricultural production would possibly take place at market prices and the period from the entry of the State into the property until the final entry into force of the estrangement act. This production, if they would sell it, will also be refunded to the owners. Similarly, if it is a production building, possibly if the building itself produces production, what would be the profit of its realization for the period I just mentioned? If the building is just a building and nothing is produced in it, then the owners will receive compensation for it if they would, eventually, rent it out; what market rent they would also have achieved for the period when, until the estrangement act came into force, they would have been compensated for the fact that the State had, of course, allowed itself, with a decision of the court to enter into the property concerned and start building. Of course, there are other hypotheses, which, in my opinion and in our colleagues, are entirely protecting the private interest. I very much wish between the first and second votes, if necessary, that relevant changes be made, and I hope for activity from all Members of the National Assembly. Indeed, the demand for a balanced approach to the preservation of private interest, but at the same time not to delay the general interest of building such large infrastructure sites within the meaning of the Law on the Construction of the Area, is very important, and any reasonable proposal based on and the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013 would have contributed to the preservation of this balance. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. In fact, what if I could take some of my speaking time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u51	Let's open up the debate, Mr. Nenkov, and I'll give you the floor right away. These were the two bills that stand our attention in this item on the agenda: Draft No 954-01-24 and Draft No 954-01-25 amending the State Property Act and were presented by importers. I'm opening the debate on both laws. Anyone? Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to finish some important thoughts on the bill. Here is also the point to mention that in the previous draft which the National Assembly had voted on and which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court some of its texts, we had then included changes in the same way to be able to enter into property when it comes to private municipal property, we had also made changes to the Law on Municipal Property. You understand that we have now limited ourselves to looking for prior entry into a property only when it comes to projects of national importance and to declare them as such within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area. I believe that the bill that we have written is indeed sufficient to meet a high standard of protection for private and public interest, and I hope that we will all support this bill because, without a doubt, when we talk about such a bill, it was highways, it was other important national objects of such importance, we cannot expect the state to move economically forward and develop any further. Here is an example of the highway "Hemus" - a project so important for Bulgaria - will be delayed with an indefinite period of time. In the same way is the southern arc, the same way is the road from Sofia with all its lots to Vidin, so we really need to find this balanced approach. I think that we have tried to do so with the amendments to the State Property Act, and I hope that you will support the bill that I presented to you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u53	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements on the two draft laws discussed? I don't see any requests for speeches. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote. We will vote on the two bills in the order of their entry. We are voting for a bill amending the Law on State Property, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Nenkov, Iskren Veselinov, Georgi Kolev, Evgenia Alexieeva, Alexander Ivanov, Mladen Shishkov and Nikolay Alexandrov on 16 April 2019. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We are voting for the second of the draft laws in question............................................................................................. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this vote at first reading were adopted both bills to supplement the State Property Act: Bill No 954-01-25, submitted by Mladen Shishkov and a group of MPs, and Draft No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CASTRE AND THE IMO REGISTER. Who will introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government for second reading? Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, before we begin the examination, I would suggest a procedure for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Jobev to take part in our debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u55	We are voting on a proposal for admission in this House. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u56	The Law on Cadastral and Property Register is amended and supplemented by the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u57	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u58	Proposal by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov the proposal under § 1 in his part under para. 2, p. 5 and § 3, t. One and two are withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 1, 2 and 3: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers shall be established and maintained in an up-to-date state in order to: 1. documenting the location, boundaries, the lasting purpose of the territory and the way in which real estate is used; 2. creation and keeping of the property register; 3. development of construction plans; 4. the creation and maintenance of specialized maps, registers and information systems, of other registers provided for by law, as well as the provision of access to the data therein; 5. provision of services for the needs of government, taxation of real estate, planning and investment design. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 5 the words under para 1 and 2 shall be replaced by para 1 and para 2. 2, p. The sentence is created in the second sentence: The Danes under para. 2, p. 1, 2 and 4 are evidence of the circumstances to which they relate, in so far as the source of such data is of evidence. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words for the exchange of data between them and shall be replaced by the access to data in them, as well as access to data in the. 2. In para. 4 words "The exchange of data between' shall be replaced by "Access to data'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u59	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 in their version proposed by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u61	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for § 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u62	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 shall be added at the end: as well as the activities for the development of specialized maps and registers under art. 34.................................................................................. 2. point 11 is amended as follows: "11." ensure coordination with the central and territorial authorities of the executive power and with legal entities under art. 32, para. 1 when carrying out the activities for the creation of specialized maps and registers; keeps a register of the created specialized maps and registers; 3. They're creating a t. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. communicate with other specialised registers and information systems for the provision of data stored and maintained in the execution of Cadastral activities under this Law; 15. provides access to the data, metadata and services it supports under the Space Data Access Act through the National Portal for Space Data.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u63	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 2 which becomes § 5. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u64	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 words on land properties and buildings, schemes of private premises in buildings are replaced by projects to amend the cadastral map and cadastral registers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u65	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting for proposals by the importer in the version of the Commission for § 3, which becomes § 6. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u66	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u67	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's text of § 4, which becomes § 7. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following 1. In para. 3 the words are insured only for the time of their activity under this law. The term "Professional liability" is replaced by "Professional liability." 2. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The legal person is obliged to take a course to maintain and increase his professional qualifications every two years after the end of the year in which he has acquired the relevant competence or has passed the course. (5) The courses for maintaining and improving the qualification of the qualified Cadastral Persons shall be carried out under a programme approved by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. The courses are held by universities where students in the professional field of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy are trained, by non-governmental professional organizations in the field of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre and by qualified and experienced students in the field of Cadastre.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 5, which becomes § 8. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u71	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 9. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u72	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 8, and therefore proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u73	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 7, which is reflected in its systematic place. Vote 80 MPs: 79, no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Due to the volume of the next paragraph, we will continue with it after the break. Communication: honourable Members, the first photography exhibition dedicated to cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Swiss Confederation will be opened in the Northern lobby. The exhibition with photographs of the photographer Ivo Danchev has a title for people. The exhibition is organized by the Central Coordination Unit at the Council of Ministers and the Embassy of the Swiss Confederation in Bulgaria. All MPs are invited to attend the opening. The sitting will continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u74	Let's get back to work, folks. You have the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The proposal in its part for the creation of new paragraphs 7a to 7e including 7k has been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: sevents of land ownership restrictions arising from a waittooth or restriction arising on the basis of a legal act, administrative act or contract shall be reflected in the cadastre and/or in the specialized maps and registers under art. 32...................................................................... 2. In para. 2 after the words......................................................................................... 32 and/or 3. In para. 5 a new sentence is created first: "Species in Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster keep a register of restrictions. § 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word the public service companies shall be added. (b) c. 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) constructions, facilities and other facilities in the land properties, including for the linear sites (surface and underground pipelines and installations) of the technical infrastructure and their waitlists, excluding buildings and facilities with their independent facilities; (c) c. 2 after the word "create" shall be added "maintained" in the current state. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The specialized maps, registers and information systems shall be made and maintained on the basis of the Cadastral data and in the form of the recording under art. 12, t. 5. 3. In para. 5 in a sentence, first after the words 4. Allinei 6 and 7 are canceled. 5. In para. 8 words.............................................................................. 34, para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing 6. Paragraph 9 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall not be subject to any of the following conditions: 1 shall provide public access to specialized cards, registers and information systems for carrying out inquiries and inspections, as well as for obtaining specialised data that collect and maintain in an up-to-date state according to the nature of their functions. Access to the data under para. 1, t. 1 shall be carried out electronically through the information portal of the Single Information Point. 7. Alinea 10 is canceled. § 12. Article 34 is amended as follows: Art. 34. (1) Specialized planning maps shall be drawn up for the purpose of planning and investment design, as well as for other public works in urbanised territories. (2) Specialized cards under para. 1 shall be made in the form of the recording under art. 12, t. 5 by combining the data from the cadastral map, the data from the specialized maps under art. 32, by reflecting water areas and currents, landscaped areas and other underground and underground objects of public works, data from approved detailed planning, as well as other data under art. 115 of the Law on Structure of the Area. The production of specialized maps under para. 1 may be carried out simultaneously or separately from the creation of the cadastral map and cadastral registers. (3) Specialized cards under para. 1 serve as a technical basis for the development of the design plans and their amendments where they contain the necessary data under Chapter Seven, Section 1 of the Law on the Construction of the Area. (4) The Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral and/or Municipalities shall assign the design of the specialized maps under para. 1. Contractors of specialized cards under para. 1 may also be the persons referred to in Article 1. 124a, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on construction of the territory, as well as the persons under art. 124a, para. 5 of the same law, which has been authorised to design a detailed design plan. (5) Specialized cards under para. 1 are maintained by the municipalities. (6) The content and order for the creation and maintenance of the specialized cards under para. 1 shall be determined by a decree issued by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. § 13. Article 40 is amended as follows: Art. 40. The costs of removing incompletes or errors in the cadastral card and cadastral registers shall be borne by the owners of real estate only if the missing or inaccurate reported property data does not exist in the sources under art. 41 and without fulfilling their obligations under art. Art. 36, Art. 38, para. 1 " 3" could not be included in the Cadastral Cadastral. § 14. Article 44a is amended as follows: Art. 44a. Where the production of a cadastral map and cadastral registers reveals discrepancies resulting from the aggregation of the data under art. 41, para. 1, the cadastral map shall contain the boundaries of the cadastral objects which are materialised on site in accordance with the property documents. Where the boundaries of the sites of the cadastre in the urbanised territories are not materialised on the spot, they shall be reflected according to the boundaries taken in the cadastral plan and for the parts of the implementing regulation......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u76	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u77	Under § 8 a proposal has been made by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u78	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 8 by importer to be rejected. They voted 63 MPs: for 63, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u79	Under § 9 a proposal has been made by the MP Iskren Veselinov, § 9 of the importer to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 5 in the sentence first, the words...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u80	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9 by importer, which shall become § 15. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u81	According to § 10 a proposal was made by the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54a para. 3 is amended as The constructions, objects of the cadastral shall not be put into service unless they are in the cadastral map and the cadastral registers. Constructions which are not Cadastral objects but create restricted areas shall not be put into service if the restricted areas are not included in the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers. The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency shall provide access to the Cadastral Information System for the bodies that bring the objects into service to carry out official verification of their presence in the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers. The constructions under art. 32, para. 1, t. 1 (b) and (j) which create restricted zones shall not be put into service if they are not included in the relevant specialized maps and registers under art. 32......................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 10 by importer, which shall become § 16. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u83	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The documents referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 2, provided through remote access to the Cadastral Information System, have the power of an official document issued by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. 2. In para. The 6th sentence is first amended as follows: "Support of the judiciary, administrative authority, public authority or public authority providing public services received by electronic document under para. 2 by remote access to the Cadastral Information System or made available to them by a person concerned, may print it in paper form and verify the identity of the original contents with the printed copy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u84	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 11 by importer, which shall become § 17. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u85	The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 55a: Art. 55a. Certificates of identity of real estate shall be issued by the municipalities where it is necessary, in addition to the data of the cadastral map, to use the data of maps and plans under art. 41, para. 1, t. 1 as well as data contained in previous cadastral and regulation plans.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u86	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u87	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Mladen Shishkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm A new article shall be created. 56: Art. 56. (1) Cadastral persons who are traders or persons exercising a free profession may assist the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Services in the administrative service of the cadastral information users for the areas with approved cadastral map and cadastral registers by providing paper-based documents under art. 55, para. 2 received through remote access to the Cadastral Information System. For the documents provided, the entitled Cadastral persons shall collect the fee fixed in the tariff under art. 8, para. 2. (2) The documents under para. 1 provided to consumers of cadastral information by eligible paper cadastrals have the power of an official document. (3) The conditions and procedures for the implementation and termination of the activities under para. 1, the control of it and the types of documents provided by the entitled persons under cadastral shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 58, para. 1. The circumstances of para. 1 shall be recorded in the register referred to in Article 1. 12, t. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u88	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12, which shall become § 19. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u90	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 20. They voted 73 MPs: 72 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u91	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following additions: 1. A t is created. 1a: 1a. The technical infrastructure infrastructure infrastructure shall be located in the underground and/or above ground transmission (rendering and diverting) ducts (nets) and other technical infrastructure elements under art. 64 of the Law on Construction in the Area, including their permanently attached construction elements and/or facilities. 2. A t is created. 22: "22." A repeated infringement is a violation committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree punishing the offender for infringement of the same type.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of Paragraph 14 by importer, which shall become § 21. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u93	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u94	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for the name of the division. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u95	A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The proposal under Paragraph 14a has been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For the purposes of the award, development and maintenance of specialized maps, registers and information systems, the Agency for Geodesy Cartography and Cadastre shall provide free of charge to the persons under art. 32, para. 1 data from the cadastral map and cadastral registers. The municipalities shall provide copies of the cadastral plans of underground pipelines and facilities, copies of approved investment projects and executive documentation for constructed underground and overhead linear objects of technical infrastructure, as well as other specialized data including for cadastral photographing and application of existing and newly constructed linear objects of technical infrastructure, as well as the data received under § 36 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register (DV, pc. 57 of 2016) § 23. (1) The orders referred to in art. Art. 32, Art. 34 shall be adopted within one year of the entry into force of this law. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the operating companies which recruit and maintain, as a matter of fact, specialized data under art. 32, para. 1, t. 1 (b) shall be obliged to assign the development of specialized maps, registers and information systems under art. 32, para. 1, t. 2. § 24. Until the adoption of the ordinance under art. 7, para. 3 operating companies shall provide the data under art. 32, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) shall be electronically accessible by providing access to its information systems under previously disclosed proportionate, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions and, in the absence of technical capability, by way of access to its information systems under previously disclosed proportionate, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions, and in the absence of technical capability, by the current order. § 25. (1) Until the development of the specialized planning maps, for the purposes of spatial planning and investment design, the owner or other interested person may assign to a legal person under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the development of a partial specialized card under art. 34. (2) The content and minimum scope of the partial specialized maps for spatial planning under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 34, para. 5. § 26. (1) Until the transmission of the specialized maps and registers to the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre under the order of art. 32, para. 5 Constructions not subject to the cadastral shall be put into service on the basis of a certificate from the municipality concerned that the contracting authority has fulfilled its obligations under § 36 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act (OJ, p. 57 of 2016) (2) Until functionality is provided in the Cadaster Information System to reflect the areas of restrictions in the cadastral map and cadastral registers, the restrictions areas shall be placed in the relevant specialized maps and registers under art. 32......................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u96	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I am voting on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 with a text from the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u97	The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 27, 28 and 29: "The Bible says: Within three months of the promulgation of this law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the amendments to Tariff No 14 for the fees collected in the system of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and by the regional governors. § 28. Within three months of the promulgation of this law, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall make the regulations implementing the law in accordance with that law. § 29. The two-year term for passing a course to maintain and increase the professional qualification of persons who have acquired competence under the Law on Cadastral and Property Register until the entry into force of this Law shall begin to run from the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u98	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 27, 28 and 29 with a text under the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u99	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 30: 30. In the Law on Geodesy and Cartography (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 4. (aa) c. 1 the words "supplied by the State' shall be replaced by "created'; (bb) c. 2 before the word "Support" is added "Create" and "Create" is added; (c) a new item shall be created. 3: "3." create and maintain the state's gravimetric network on the territory of the country. (dd) Previously, on: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 are respectively t. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11; (b) the creation of para. 6: The scientific provision, final processing and analysis of the results of the measurements of the State Gravimetric Network and the State Level Network shall be carried out jointly by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, the Ministry of Defence, the Geodesical Faculty of the University of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy and the National Institute of Geophysics, Geodesy and Geography at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 4 the words supporting the main gravimetric network and suppliing the main gravimetric network are deleted; (b) A new item shall be created. 5. It's five o'clock. the performance of the levelling and gravimetric measurements of the points of the state geodetic network; c) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 6. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 words................................................................................. 1, t. 1, 3 and 5 and shall be replaced (b) in para. 4 words................................................................................. 1, t. 2 and 4' are replaced by "al'. 1, t. Two, three and four. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 4 the number 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 1, t. 2 words. The following shall be added to the table in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 words and state gravimetrics shall be deleted; (b) c. 2 after the words for the mareographical stations. The state-owned gravimetric network is added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1, t. 4 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 5 and shall be replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 1 and 5 (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 13, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 1 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 13, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced (b) in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 13, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 5 and shall be replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 1 and 5
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u100	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 15 by importer, which shall become § 30. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u101	Under § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Desislav Chukolov: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151, para. 1 is created t. 16: ..16. installation, disassembly, replacement or addition, maintenance and/or improvement of elements of the radio transmission system of reception stations, as well as their replacement and/or addition with elements and equipment of the same and/or other technology in the same or other frequency range, in the event that no excavation is required, the construction, type of construction elements and/or loads of the equipment concerned, subject to fire and health standards and requirements shall not significantly change. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177, para. 1 of the Law on construction of the territory in sentence two after the words. The following shall be added: The sentence should be published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 117a: Art. 117a. (1) When creating a digital type of detailed design plan approved in a graphical form in which land properties are regulated by property boundaries in the graphic plan, the location of the regulatory line in digital form coincides with the location of the property boundary established in the conversion into digital form of the cadastral plan, which served as the basis for the development and approval of the detailed design plan. (2) In the case of land-based land-based land-based land-based land-uses regulated by internal regulations along the property boundaries, if differences are obtained from the existing land-based materialized property boundaries within the permissible accuracy defined by the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, the internal regulations are within the existing on-site property boundaries. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) in a sentence first, the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 175, para. The information referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be provided in accordance with the procedure set out in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. b) A new sentence is created second: 32, para. 1, item 1 (b) and point (j) of the Cadastral Act and the property register which create restricted zones, the contracting authority shall present a certificate by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency that they are entered in the specialized maps and registers under art. 32 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act. c) the previous sentence second becomes the third sentence. 3. In § 22 of the Final Provisions para. 2 and 3 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u102	Are there any speeches on the text presented to us so far? I won't. I put to the vote first the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Desislav Chukolov. Vote 85 MPs: for 7, against 2, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 16 by importer, which shall become § 31. Vote 79 MPs: 78, against and abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u103	The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) In the event of a change of plans under § 8, para. 1 of the transitional provisions of the Law on construction of the territory on the basis of an order of the authorities under art. 135, para. 1 in relation to para. 5 of the same law, if none of the possibilities for applying the welded regulatory plans under § 8, para. 2 of the transitional provisions of the Law on construction of the territory, land properties shall be regulated according to the rules of art. 17 of the Law on Structure of the Area. (2) The rules of para. 1 shall also apply when creating new detailed planning plans to regulate settlements or parts thereof.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u104	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 32 with a text on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u105	Paragraph 17. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 27, and therefore proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u106	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 17 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u107	Paragraph 18. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 28, and therefore proposes that § 18 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u108	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 18 by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u109	Paragraph 19. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 33: ................................................ The law shall enter into force three months after its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u110	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 19 by importer, which shall become § 33. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u111	Paragraph 20 "A proposal from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 20 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u112	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 20 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u113	Proposal by the MP Desislav Chukolov: They are created § 21 and 22: .................................................................. Within three months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Gazette................................................................................................... 19th para. 4 of the Health Act in accordance with this law. § 22. Within three months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal, the Minister of Interior shall introduce the ordinance under art. 125, para. 2 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior in accordance with this law. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u114	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Desislav Chukolov. Vote 87 MPs: 5 against 2, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. We also completed the second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. Thank you, Mr. Veselinov and Mr. Nenkov, Mr. Todorov. We move on to the next item of the National Assembly's Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR POST SERVICES. The Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce us to Mr. Ivan Valkov. Dear Mr. Valkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 24 April 2019, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act was discussed, No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Ivan Dimitrov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mr. Deyan Daneshki, Chief Executive Officer of the Bulgarian Post Office, Mrs. Neda Koycheva, Director of the Legal Service of the Communications Regulation Commission, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov. Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov presented the Draft Law by clarifying that a new legislation is being established in order to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/644 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border parcel delivery services at national level. Member States shall notify to the European Commission, by 23 November 2019 at the latest, the legal rules which they adopt with regard to the establishment of a system of penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. In this regard, Article is proposed. 105d, which determines the type and amount of sanctions ensuring that the objectives set out in Regulation 2018/644 will be achieved in their application. The Communications Regulation Commission has been designated as a national regulatory authority within the meaning of that Regulation. Next, Mr. Dimitrov pointed out that the provisions of the Postal Services Act relating to the requirements of the European framework on State aid for services of general economic interest are being refined and updated. The Law changes the model of compensation to the postal operator with an obligation to carry out the universal postal service, providing for the compensation to be carried out in advance for the current year on the basis of the compensation determined in the previous year. Measures are provided for to recover the overcompensation (if any) from the operator and, in cases where the funds allocated for the year concerned are less than the amount of compensation allocated for that year, it is proposed that the funds be reimbursed in the following year. The procedure for proving the net costs of an operator's obligations and the procedure for determining the amount of the means to compensate for the unfair financial burden of carrying out the universal postal service shall also be clarified. The bill also provides for amendments relating to the distinction between universal postal services and services covered by the universal postal service in order to avoid the incorrect interpretation of the two concepts. In addition to the existing notions of universal postal service and non-universal postal services, the category of services falling within the scope of the universal postal service is added for clarity as a third type of service other than the first two categories. The aim is to highlight the nature of the universal postal service as a service of general economic interest satisfying the minimum needs of the society of basic postal services. Next, Mr. Dimitrov pointed out that provisions concerning the number and location of access points to the postal network of postal operators are also refined. Controversies have also been removed, creating a vague interpretation of the texts, and are filled gaps in the implementation of the regulatory functions of the Communications Regulation Commission. Following the presentation of the Law, a discussion took place during which were discussed changes in the model of compensation of the postal operator with an obligation to carry out the universal postal service, as well as questions concerning the number and location of the points of access to the postal network of obligations postal operator. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes, the National Assembly proposed to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Postal Services Act, No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. You have the floor for the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Dear Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019. At a meeting held on 18 April 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act, No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Genovski "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications." The draft law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act has been drawn up in implementation of the legislative initiatives for 2018 to the Government Programme for 2017 - 2021, which aim to update the legal framework in line with developments in European Union law, as well as in relation to changes in trends in the economy and society to resolve problems arising in the law enforcement process. In this context, a whole new legislation shall be established to ensure the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2018/644 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cross-border parcel delivery services at national level. Member States shall notify to the European Commission, by 23 November 2019 at the latest, the legal provisions of their law which they adopt with regard to the establishment of a system of penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. The provisions of the Postal Services Act (SPV) relating to the requirements of the European framework relating to State aid for services of general economic interest and to the procedure for proving net costs and determining the amount of the means to compensate for the unfair financial burden of carrying out the universal postal service shall be revised and updated. The bill contains amendments aimed at changing the model of compensation of the postal operator with an obligation to perform the universal postal service. The Law included amendments relating to the distinction of universal postal service from services covered by the universal postal service in order to avoid misinterpretation of the two concepts. Provisions relating to the number and location of access points to the postal network, to the obligations of the postal operator and to the principles to be bound by the rules on price formation by types of services of the universal postal service are revised. Controversies have been removed, creating a vague interpretation of the texts, and are filled gaps in the implementation of the regulatory functions of the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) by clarifying the existing texts. A requirement shall be introduced for postal operators to require, process and store identity data of senders of internal postal consignments with a charge imposed, as well as for senders of outgoing international postal consignments with a charge imposed and without payment imposed. The proposed provision aims at ensuring that competent authorities have the data necessary to carry out controls both in compliance with tax and insurance legislation by persons engaged in online business through the postal network and in carrying out the activities of law enforcement authorities in the field of national security protection, money laundering and criminal investigation. On a proposal from the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance, additional rules have been established to allow for additional sanctions against persons with outstanding public claims. Following the discussion, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so- proposed draft by concluding its discussion with the following results: 15 votes for The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act, No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Mr. Valkov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Genovski and Mrs. Lyudmila Vasileva from the same ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u120	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u121	They voted 63 MPs: for 63, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Postal Services Act proposes amendments in several main directions, mainly related to the transposition of European legislation. This is about Regulation 2018/644/EC, which mainly refers to services which are related to the transposition of parcel delivery to the internal market, but I will not refer to them. I will refer to the issue of universal postal service and, in particular, to the compensation of the universal postal service, which is reflected in art. 29 of the same law. What do we have so far? Until now, the compensation of the universal postal service was carried out with two years delay, which greatly aggravated the work and was an impossible financial burden for the postal operator, in this case the Bulgarian Post Office. I believe that what is being proposed is quite appropriate, fair and I personally admire it. What's the offer? It is proposed that compensation should be paid in the same year, with the amount of compensation corresponding to the amount of the previous year. The mechanism that is signed is in the direction of.. if the compensation exceeds the previous year, they will be withheld if we have a lower value, they will be given in more, so this mechanism is absolutely fair. I think that as MPs, we should support it. In addition, the mechanisms for 2018 and 2019 are very precise, as this is an interim period in which this financial burden, which is for the Bulgarian Post Office, will be given in five equal instalments and will thus be guaranteed the work of the postal operator. In addition to these issues, two more points have been addressed in the Commission, which I would like to address. The first is the introduction of a new concept that relates to services falling within the scope of the universal postal service. This is a third type of service, since only the services that were for the universal postal service and the non-ubiquitous postal service were signed in the Law so far. Others are related to this new concept, which distinguishes between the scope of the universal postal service and those services that do not fall within the scope, as you know, have an advantage in paying VAT and so on, and services that are not within the scope of the universal postal service should be subject to those taxes. This is one of the reasons why this concept is defined, which facilitates the work of both the regulator and the bodies related to budget planning. The other issue that has been raised is the issue that relates to the identification of the personal data or the data that are on the senders of postal consignments with the payment to be collected. This is extremely important, as they will start to come together once the European regulation's texts have been introduced after the autumn of this year. This relates to a number of requirements of the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance. It is also extremely important that the problem which is related to Internet trade and the tracking of cash flows and valuable consignments, which are not sufficiently well covered at this time. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I therefore call on you to support the Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act at first reading, and if there is an appropriate need for adjustments, between first and second readings can be made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Kirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u124	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valkov, my statement will partly overlap with yours, but I would like to summarize the bill. This Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act governs public relations related to the operation of postal services in the Republic of Bulgaria. In 2010, the final stage of the legal framework in the Republic of Bulgaria was implemented in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2008/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 87/67/EC with a view to the full establishment of the internal market of postal services at frequency. Since 1 January 2011, the market for postal services in the country has been completely liberalized and open to competition. The preparation of this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act is in implementation of legislative initiatives in 2018 to the Government's 2017 Programme, which aim to update the legal framework in line with developments in European Union law, as well as in relation to changes in trends in the economy and society and solve problems arising in the implementation process. The project provides for the following more substantial changes. First of all, in order to ensure the implementation of Regulation of the European Union of 2018, No 644 of the European Parliament on cross-border parcel delivery services, which defined penalties for breach of the rules of the Regulation relating to the implementation of effective and consistent regulatory supervision in respect of the market of cross-border shipments of parcels ordered online. The same should be notified to the European Commission no later than 23 November 2019. Secondly, as you mentioned, the compensation model for the postal operator, which has an obligation to carry out the universal postal service, has changed. The compensation of the operator will take place in advance during the current year on the basis of the compensation determined by the previous year. These amendments are proposed to enter into force from 1 January 2020. This change achieves full compliance with the conditions for compatibility of State aid in the form of public service compensation granted by certain undertakings entrusted with the operation of a service of general economic interest, including with a view to providing rules to exclude the notification requirement referred to in art. 108 § 3 of the Treaty, under the conditions of European law. The means of compensation to the postal operator for universal postal service obligations for 2018 and 2019, determined in accordance with the current compensation model, will be translated over the next five budgetary years in order to reduce the financial burden on the state budget. This is coordinated with the Ministry of Finance. In order for competent authorities to have the data necessary to carry out controls in compliance with tax and insurance legislation by persons engaged in internet commercial activity through the postal network, as well as in carrying out the activities of national security law enforcement authorities relating to money laundering and criminal prosecution, it is provided that postal operators are required to collect, process and store personal data of senders of domestic postal consignments and of outgoing international postal consignments with an imposed payment. In addition, postal operators will collect, process and store the identification data of recipients of cash from an imposed payment. Provisions distinguishing, on the one hand, the universal postal service as a package of basic postal services and, on the other hand, the services included in its scope are revised in order to address the difficulties identified in interpreting the two concepts by law enforcement authorities, especially in the award of public procurement. The requirement for good location of the access points of the postal network is regulated. This obligation of the postal operator is in order to optimize the number of urban fixed post offices of that operator, which will enable more flexible management of the postal network in relation to micro-region development. This program will not affect the existing postal operator's network in small settlements, where the only postal service provider is the Bulgarian Post Office. The optimization of the number of urban postal stations constitutes a reduction reserve for the company's costs without affecting the quality of the services provided. Rules shall also be established allowing for sanctions against authorised postal operators with outstanding public claims. In this regard, I, too, honourable Members, propose that we support the Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act, No 902-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 April 2019. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point five: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE DECISIONS OF THE SECOND EXECUTIVE CONGRESS OF THE FULMIRARY POST UNION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u126	Madam President, colleagues! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 24 April 2019, a Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union was discussed, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 08 April 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Acting Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the Draft. The draft law for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, held in Addis Ababa in 2018, was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a member state of the Union and in implementation of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act and Article 1 of the International Contracts Act. 13, p. 3 of the Postal Services Act. It ratifys the following acts: 1. The 10th Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union; 2. The second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of the Universal Postal Union; 3. The Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention; 4. The Final Protocol to the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention. According to importers, the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union would result in: - confirmation of the belonging and participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the single world postal territory regulated by the acts of the Universal Postal Union; - establishing a legal basis for the settlement of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the other member states of the Universal Postal Union in the implementation of international postal services; - ensure the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the implementation of the Union acts by both the authorities implementing the state policy and the regulation of postal services and by the chosen postal operator obliged under art. 27 of the Postal Services Act to implement the acts of the Universal Postal Union which have been ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria; - guaranteeing the right of consumers to use international postal services from and to all 192 member states of the Universal Postal Union; - guaranteeing the right of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate as a member in the overall activities of the Universal Postal Union, its managing bodies and their working structures. It was explained to the Members of the National Assembly that, within the framework of the Universal Postal Union, the relations between the Member States are governed by Union acts. Those acts shall be amended, supplemented and adopted by any congress held, which according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Statute is the supreme authority of the Universal Postal Union. In accordance with art. 30, para. 2 thereof, the amendments and additions to that act adopted by the subsequent conventions of the Universal Postal Union shall be included in additional protocols. Such additional protocols were adopted by conventions held consistently in Tokyo, Lausanne, Hamburg, Washington, Seoul, Beijing, Bucharest, Geneva and Istanbul. The reasons for the bill indicate that amendments and additions to the provisions of the Statute of the Union have been made to the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, which is why it is necessary to ratify the Tenth Additional Protocol thereto. The Act, which contains all the provisions on the application of the Statute, the overall structure and organisation of the activities of the Universal Postal Union, as well as the rules on the selection and operation of its permanent and other working bodies, shall be the General Rules. By decision of the XXV Congress of the Organisation of 2012, this act is of constant content and any subsequent amendments and additions imported into it from the conventions of the Union shall be included in additional protocols. They shall enter into force at the same time as the entry into force of the acts renewed by those conventions. The General Rules and the Additional Protocols thereto shall be binding on all Members of the Universal Postal Union. During the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, a Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules was adopted. As regards the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention, it was clarified that it was an act which contained amendments to the regulation and the uniform rules for the operation of international postal services and regulated the relationship between the Member States and their selected postal operators. Mr. Dimitrov pointed out that the Final Protocol to the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention contains the explicit arrangements which are formulated by the Member States concerned and relate to the specific conditions and methods of application by them of certain articles of that act. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 10 votes, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on April 8, 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u127	Thank you, dear Mrs. Gancheva. Now to introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance has the floor Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u128	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019. At a regular meeting held on 18 April 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 08 April 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Genovski "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications." The universal postal union is an intergovernmental agency of the United Nations system specialising in postal services. Within its frameworks, relations between Member States shall be governed by Union acts. Those acts shall be amended, supplemented and adopted by any congress held, which according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Statute is the supreme authority of the Universal Postal Union. The adoption of the bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union will result in: - confirmation of the belonging and participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the single world postal territory regulated by the acts of the Universal Postal Union; - establishing a legal basis for the settlement of relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the other member states of the Universal Postal Union in the implementation of international postal services; - ensure the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the implementation of the Union acts by both the authorities implementing the state policy and the regulation of postal services and by the chosen postal operator obliged under art. 27 of the Postal Services Act to implement the acts of the Universal Postal Union which have been ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria; - guaranteeing the right of consumers to use international postal services from and to all 192 member states of the Universal Postal Union; - guaranteeing the right of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate as a member in the overall activities of the Universal Postal Union, its managing bodies and their working structures. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act and Article 1 of the International Contracts Act. 13, p. 3 of the Postal Services Act the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union are subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly. Those acts are the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union, the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of the Universal Postal Union, the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention and the Final Protocol to the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention adopted by the Second Exceptional Congress of the Universal Postal Union signed in Addis Ababa in 2018. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 15 votes for the European Parliament, no objection and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. And the latest report is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u130	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019. At its meeting held on 24 April 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019. The meeting was attended by Ms. Krasimira Stoyanova, Head of Cabinet and Director of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Lyudmila Vasileva, Head of Department at the Department of Communications. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, who pointed out that the Universal Postal Union is an intergovernmental agency of the United Nations system specializing in postal services and added that the relations between the member states are governed by Union acts. The draft law provides for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union held in Addis Ababa in 2018, namely: The Tenth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union, the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of the Universal Postal Union, the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention, and the Final Protocol thereto. Ms. Stoyanova noted that the adoption of the bill would lead to confirmation of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the single world postal territory, establishing a legal basis for the implementation of international postal services, guaranteeing the right of consumers to use international postal services from and to all 192 member states of the Universal Postal Union, as well as guaranteeing the right of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the overall activities of the Universal Postal Union, its managing bodies and its working structures. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the United States Council, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019, proposed to the National Assembly a bill for the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! The universal postal union is an intergovernmental organisation of United Nations organisations specialising in postal services. It is a member of 192 countries that are part of this union. Those acts shall be amended, supplemented and adopted by any congress held, which shall be the supreme authority of the Universal Postal Union. The adoption of the Law on the ratification of the acts of the Second Exceptional Congress of the Universal Postal Union will lead to the validation of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the provision of a single world postal territory established and regulated by the acts of the Universal Postal Union by giving legal basis for the implementation of international postal services between the Republic of Bulgaria and the other Member States of the Union and between their elected postal operators; the provision of the application of the acts of the Union are the bodies which conduct the state policy and regulation in the field of postal services; the provision of the application of the Union acts by an elected postal operator obliged under art. 27 of the Postal Services Act to implement the acts of the organization, which have been ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria; guaranteeing the right of voters to use international postal services from and to all 192 member states of the Universal Postal Union, and finally guaranteeing the right of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate as a member in the overall activities of the Universal Postal Union, its managing bodies and its working structures. I would like to point out that the adoption of such a law is required by the requirement of art. 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019, first reading. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u134	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that a bill for ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union be put to the second vote, No 902-02-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u135	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u136	THE LAW OF THE for the ratification of the acts of the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union. A single member. It ratifies the Tenth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union, the Second Additional Protocol to the General Rules of the Universal Postal Union, the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention and the Final Protocol to the Additional Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention adopted by the Second Exceptional Congress of the Universal Postal Union signed in Addis Ababa in 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u137	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name and member of this ratification alone. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the final item on today's agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COUNCIL OF THE MINISTERES OF BOSNA AND HERZEGOVIA AND THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE OTHER The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Nunev. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am making a procedure for admission to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u139	Please vote on the admission procedure. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u140	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the Host Party for the Secretariat of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative, signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey, No 902-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019. At its meeting held 24 April 2019, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the host country for the Secretariat of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey, No 902-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tsipov. In his statement, he noted that the Agreement between the Member States of the Southeast European Disaster Prevention Initiative (DPP1 SEE) was signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey and established close regional cooperation between the countries of the region. The agreement aims to regulate the legal status, privileges and immunities of the Secretariat of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (DPPI SEE). The Agreement regulates operational functions and obligations of the DPPI SEE Secretariat, which is located in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Agreement should be ratified by the National Assembly, as it concerns the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in an international organisation and builds on the commitments arising from the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention for Southeast Europe (DPPI SEE). On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 11 votes for abstentions and non-restraints proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States of the South-East European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the Host Party for the Secretariat of the South-East European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative, signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey, No 902-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Who will introduce us to the Foreign Policy Committee report? Here you are, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other countries of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the host country for the Secretariat of the South East European Disaster Prevention Initiative The Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers at a regular meeting held on 24 April 2019. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Interior Stefan Balabanov. The agreement between the member states of the Southeast European Disaster Prevention Initiative was signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey. It aims to regulate the legal status, privileges and immunities that are necessary for the functioning of the Secretariat of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in Southeast Europe. The seat of the Secretariat shall be in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as agreed in the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Initiative for preparedness and prevention in Southeast Europe. It was signed by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania and the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey on 28 November 2013, by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sarajevo on 18 April 2014 and by the Government of Romania on 19 November 2015 in Sarajevo. This Agreement shall be applied on a provisional basis as from the date of its signature, unless a Member State of the Initiative states that its internal legal requirements do not allow such provisional application. Pursuant to Article 30, this Agreement will remain in force for the period of validity of the Memorandum of Understanding. After hearing the reasons for the draft was held a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which by 11 votes for............................................................................................... 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt, at first reading, the draft law for ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States of the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania), on the arrangements with the host country for the Secretariat of the Initiative for preparedness and prevention of disasters in South East Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u143	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the host country for the Secretariat of the Initiative for preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nunev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u144	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be adopted in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u145	Please vote on the procedure. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u146	LAW on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States on preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania), on the arrangements with the Host Party for the Secretariat of the South East Europe Disaster Prevention Initiative, signed on 4 April 2019 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States on preparedness and disaster prevention in South East Europe (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the Host Party for the Secretariat of the South East Europe Disaster Prevention Initiative, signed on 4 April 2019 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-08.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name, the only article and the final provision. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we've exhausted our agenda for today. Tomorrow, May 9th, regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
