ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please register. Cancel the registration. There's no jurisdiction. Next registration in 10 minutes. Discovered at 9:14 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u2	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today's first point is: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESIDENT FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 21 February 2019. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly an additional point which I will then read to you. Before Mrs. Menda Stoyanova introduces us to the report, I will read how the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission by the National Assembly is made: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly, with a decision of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. If there are several candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, involving two candidates who have received the most votes for the vote. 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure in this Chamber to allow Mr. Boyko Atanasov to be admitted to the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission and Mrs. Diana Yordanova to be Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u4	We are voting on this procedure. [[The House is attended by MPs from the DPS parliamentary group.]] They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u5	♪ I can't believe on hearing the proposed candidate Boyko Atanasov Atanasov as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission At an open meeting held on 13 March 2019 and broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission under Section IV of the adopted Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Menda Stoyanova noted that it is evident from the documents presented by Boyko Atanasov, the same meet the requirements of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for the appointment of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission and should be allowed to be heard. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that in the verification carried out, no documents establishing belonging to Mr. Boyko Atanasov have been found at present, according to the provisions of art. 25 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Mr. Boyko Atanasov's application, proposed by a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. He briefed the Committee on Budget and Finance on his education and 20 years of professional experience in the field of public finances. In conclusion, according to the Rules of Procedure, he noted that Mr. Boyko Atanasov has the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation to take up the position of Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and expressed confidence that he would contribute to the further development and continuation of the policy of strengthening the regulatory body. After his candidacy Mr. Atanasov introduced the MPs to his concept of the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission. At the beginning of his exhibition he outlined the main objectives to the regulatory authority, namely: - establishing a stable team of professionals; - building transparent and timely communication with society; - carrying out extremely strict supervision in relation to supervised entities in the three main directions regulated by the Commission.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to him, in order to achieve those objectives, the Financial Supervision Commission should develop in the following basic guidelines: 1. Managing the positioning and reputation of the Financial Supervision Commission as a stable, objective and independent regulatory body in society by creating an active dialogue environment with supervised entities, businesses and citizens. Conducting regular meetings, seminars to gain a direct impression of the problems encountered by supervised entities with regard to the preparation of changes in the legal and regulatory framework, as well as their expectations for the Commission. Creating transparency in the Commission's actions by providing as detailed, accurate and timely information as possible and seeking dialogue at all levels. Mr. Atanasov assured the MPs that the Financial Supervision Commission has the real opportunity in the field of reputation management and communication flows to inform consumers in Bulgaria about the quality of the services and products offered in the investment, insurance and pension sector. He stressed that his vision is to carry out prevention through active regulation and not response to crisis situations. 2. Activating all possible measures and mechanisms to create predictable regulatory activity and preventive control, the main focus will be on risk-based supervision and coordinated supervision in situations where other institutions are involved. Mr. Atanasov stressed that the short term provides for a new Law on Special Investment Purpose Companies to be drawn up in line with directly applicable European securitisation legislation. In this respect, new regulatory powers of the Financial Supervision Commission will be introduced, as well as supervisory powers regarding supervised entities and new legal entities which are currently not subject to supervision. 3. Reducing the administrative burden, through optimization of business processes and digitalisation, as a result of which the Commission will provide fast and quality services in regulatory activities and will achieve greater transparency in its supervision. The administrative burden should be reduced both by analysing good international practices in the digitalisation process and by seriously analysing any proposal from the Commission or supervised entities for new regulation and by stimulating electronic submission of information. 4. Protection of public interest, insured and insured persons. In this regard, Mr. Atanasov stressed that it is extremely important to overcome the consequences of the bankruptcy of the Cypriot insurance company..Olympik............................. and to strengthen monitoring of the National Bureau of Bulgarian Motor Insurance Insurance and strengthen the compensation mechanisms in the Bulgarian insurance system. 5. Create a strong, motivated and with the highest level of team expertise. Mr. Atanasov stressed that at present the Financial Supervision Commission employs people with serious expertise and willingness to develop. The aim is in the short term to increase their motivation and creativity with regard to the implementation of the transparent communication strategy with citizens and supervised persons and for partnering towards the institutions in Bulgaria. He expressed confidence that the Financial Supervision Commission's team could implement efficient projects for increasing financial literacy through the creation of educational programmes, awareness campaigns for users of financial services and the organisation of seminars for the different target groups. In conclusion, Mr. Atanasov stressed that, under his leadership, the Financial Supervision Commission will continue to take consistent action and improve its practices in the implementation of an effective risk-based supervision of the non-bank financial sector, which is linked to early identification of risks and is a major prerequisite for sound financial markets. According to T. 5 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova stated his outstanding support for Mr. Boyko Atanasov's candidacy, stressing his professional and management qualities known to her during her work in the tax administration. She expressed satisfaction that its concept of the Financial Supervision Commission's activities focuses on communication with users of financial services, as well as on the establishment of an information system of the administration, which has slowed down too much over time. Mr. Atanasov, for his part, thanked for the support and informed the MPs that the procedure for the establishment of a single information system in the Financial Supervision Commission has been initiated and the offers submitted are currently under consideration. According to him, a modern information system is the basis of a modern administration. According to T. 6 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure Ms. Menda Stoyanova informs the Members of the National Assembly that no opinions and questions have been received from the persons under art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly regarding the candidacy of Mr. Boyko Atanasov. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the proposed candidate complies with the legal requirements for the appointment of the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidate, as well as the qualifications acquired by him, are positive prerequisites for the implementation of the competent and responsible management of the Financial Supervision Commission. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed application of Boyko Atanasov for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, to which it applies to this report: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 6, para. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act relating to the decision of the National Assembly on early termination of the term of office of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission HAS DECIDED He elected Boyko Atanasov Atanasov as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Alexandrov, you're welcome to present Mr. Atanasov's candidacy within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Financial Supervision Commission! [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] Thank you, Mr. Hamid, for noticing my tie again! We present to you Mr. Boyko Atanasov's candidacy as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. Mr. Atanasov holds a Master's degree in Economics from the University of National and World Economy. He has participated in a number of specializations in Bulgaria and abroad. The professional development of Mr. Atanasov passes almost entirely in the sphere of public finances, in particular in the revenue administration of the Republic of Bulgaria. In 1996 he began his work as a tax inspector in the General Administration of Tax Administration and later took consecutive leadership positions: Deputy Director of the Territorial Tax Directorate of the City of Sofia; Deputy Director of the Territorial Directorate of the National Revenue Agency (NRA) Sofia City; Director of the Regional Directorate of the National Revenue Agency (NRA) Sofia City and from 2013 to 2017 he was Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. In this four-year period Mr. Atanasov is developing the Agency towards integration of e-government, introducing a number of optimizations of work processes, creating programs for human resources management and increasing the motivation of employees in the field of public administration. During its management, the National Revenue Agency is established as one of Europe's leading revenue administrations, increasing voluntary performance to 83.5% and achieving an annual growth of more than 12% of the collection rate. In 2017 Mr. Atanasov took the position of Deputy Minister of Finance with main portfolios: National Revenue Agency and Customs Agency. For more than 20 years of professional development Mr. Atanasov gained extremely valuable management experience, which distinguished him as a leader with strategic thinking and as an expert with excellent knowledge in the field of tax and financial legislation. During the last one year Boyko Atanasov took up the position of Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, leading the management for the supervision of investment activity, mainly imposing its management style. In view of the above, I believe that Mr. Atanasov has all the necessary education, professional experience and public reputations to take up the position of the Chairman-in-Office of the Financial Supervision Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u8	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision to elect President of the Financial Supervision Commission Mr. Boyko Atanasov. They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] Congratulations, Mr. Atanasov! Please say a few words from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your vote of confidence for the post of Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria. What I can say is that I will be fully responsible for carrying out extremely strict supervision with regard to supervised entities governed by the Commission. Coming down from this tribune, I will deposit my intention to terminate my term of office in advance as Vice-President of the Commission. Once again, thank you for your vote and believe me, I appreciate the confidence you give me. We have a lot of work ahead of us and I believe that it will be in an environment of fellowship and active dialogue with businesses and institutions. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov's resignation has already been deposited, so, colleagues, the procedure that follows from now on is to adopt a point on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I propose that it be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly, the following additional point:.. Ending the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board and taking an oath from the newly elected Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. The resignation has just been filed. It has an entry number 920-00-5 of 15 March 2019. I propose that this be point two for today's plenary session. Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to this point: TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATIVE OF THE COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATIVE OF THE FINANCIAL SUPERVISION MANDER, THE COMMISSION'S REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE INVESTITION ARCHIVED BY THE COMMISSION'S NEW BENEFICIARY OF FINANCIAL SUPERVISION. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the resignation. I will read the text of Mr. Atanasov's resignation: "Dear Madam President, in connection with my election as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and on the basis of art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, I am resigning as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, managing the management of the investment activity. I ask that the same be examined and adopted by the National Assembly. Statements, coworkers? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of the management of the investment activity. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Atanasov, please take an oath. Members of the National Assembly, please rise. [[Everyone gets up.]] Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u11	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the implementation of the objectives of the Financial Supervision Commission, to be guided by the principles of independence, objectivity and good faith in fulfilling the obligations conferred on me by the Law. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u12	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Good luck to you all! Thanks, guys. The next item on today's agenda is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. Importers are Emil Dimitrov, Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid, Simeon Naydenov and Yavor Notev, on 28 February 2019. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u13	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 954-01-12, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. At its meeting held on 13 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 954-01-12, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev from the Supreme Court of Cassation; Judge Borislav Bezelkov, Chairman of the Fourth Civil Division, the Civil College, and Judge Galina Toneva from the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation; and by the Chamber of Worthy Persons in Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Dimitrov, who pointed out that it aims to take a decision by the collective body, which requires a qualified majority, in the absence of such a decision to be rejected. The proposed amendment would lead to the adoption of a decision on the substance of the matter by the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, which would be subject to judicial review of the legality before the Supreme Administrative Court. In order to achieve speed and personnel security in relation to the decisions taken by the relevant college or Plenum of the SJC, the establishment of uniformity of proceedings, with the exception of disciplinary proceedings, shall be proposed. Amendments relating to the status of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall be introduced. In accordance with art. 132a, para. 10 of the Constitution shall be proposed upon release on the basis of art. 48, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary of the Chief Inspector or Inspector, the National Assembly shall elect a new Chief Inspector with a new mandate under art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution, respectively an inspector with a new mandate under art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution. Mr. Dimitrov noted that this will ensure consistency and continuity in the work of this body as well as its effective functioning. Another part of the amendments aims at legal settlement of the practice in the courts, the organisation of the court's work to be uniform with regard to the acts to be issued by the administrative director of the court concerned. In order to create clarity and security with regard to the exact moment of taking up office of a newly elected administrative manager, the provision of art. 167, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. Mr. Dimitrov pointed out that the aim is to achieve procedural economy in cases where the registered magistrate objects to the comprehensive assessment and enables the relevant college to adopt a direct comprehensive assessment of the attestation without always having to return the file to the relevant Commission on attestations and contests. With regard to disciplinary proceedings, the authority of the College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be put in place in a decision to impose a lighter disciplinary penalty than the one proposed to be able to impose the penalty itself for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The amendment introduced shall speed up the procedure for the completion of disciplinary proceedings before the personnel body and shall prevent the possibility of expiry of time limits. The rules of art are available. Paragraph 342. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary shall also contain provisions on terms and conditions for lowering the rank of judicial officers for which there is evidence of a permanent deterioration of the quality of work. The Final Provisions provide for completion by the current order of competition procedures which began until the Law enters into force. Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that he will not express an opinion on the bill because a decision of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council on it is pending. Ms. Toneva noted that she participated in a working group with the Ministry of Justice, which discusses future changes in the Law on the Judiciary. The representative of the House of Property has made a request for amendment of art. 340a, para. 2, p. 6 of the Law on the Judiciary, such as the judicial officer carrying out an activity and as an expert in the court and prosecution, shall not be regarded as a person exercising a free profession within the meaning of the Law. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 14 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, No 954-01-12, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm opening the debate, colleagues. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 954-01-12, submitted by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 28 February. The Commission 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE CODEX OF THE SELECTED CODEX. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 18 February 2019; Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 6 March 2019. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will read us Mrs. Atanasova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u15	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-8, submitted by the National Representative Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 18 February 2019, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-14, submitted by the National Representative Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs on 6 March 2019. At its meeting held on 13 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Vasil Durev. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 954-01-8, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, was presented by Mr. Kirilov, who pointed out that it aims to restore the legal effect of the rules on the taking into account of preferences in all types of elections under the Election Code before their amendment on 14 February 2019 in the draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code adopted at second reading, No 853-03-91 of 19 December 2018. Mr Hamid Hamid presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-14, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. He pointed out that the Bill aims to repeal the rules for forming polling stations outside the country and suggests the introduction of video surveillance in each selection commission throughout the election day. The bill proposes changes on the requirements for settling in elections for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as for municipal councillors and mayors. The possibility of using a mother tongue during the election campaign is introduced, with Mr Hamid saying that in cases where the campaign is conducted in a foreign language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev. Mr. Mitev pointed out that he would not support the Bill proposed by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, and the reasons are conditioned by art. 82, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. He noted that regarding the bill proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, there is no unified position in the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" and the political party VMRO support the draft law, and the political party NFSB will refrain from support due to the extremely low threshold of preferences in elections for municipal councilors and mayors. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 9 votes, forssed, 2 votes againsts, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-8, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 18 February 2019, and 2 votes for a vote against a vote, and 8 votes for abstentions proposed that the National Assembly not adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 954-01-14, submitted by Mustafa Karaday and a group of Members of National Representatives on 6 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u16	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, one procedural proposal on the other point, which was before that. We voted Mr. Boyko Atanasov's resignation, but we must also vote on a decision for a work project for early termination of the term. The pass is mine. I'll read it to you, and my procedure is to put it to the vote: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the early termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission responsible for the management of the investment activity The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED The term of office of Boyko Atanasov Atanasov is terminated early as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of management. Please, voting mode. We're clearing the procedure. In principle, the resignation has been voted on, but let us also vote on the Decision. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now continuing with the debates on the two submitted bills on amending and supplementing the Election Code. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Sorry, I'm a little distracted today. Presentation of the importer Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u17	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to present on behalf of the importers of your attention a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-8, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 18 February 2019. Dear Members of Parliament, you are all informed and know of the statements on this legislative initiative on the day of February 18th. You know that, with this bill, we have proposed the restoration of the system of preferences within the borders and with the boundaries as they were until the amendments and additions to the Election Code at second reading by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019. With this draft the Executive Commission of the Political Party GERB decided to satisfy the public reactions that were received in the late public debate on the issue of the preferential vote, and we tabled these amendments accordingly. There has been much talk in the public domain that these amendments are being made prematurely, that such amendments cannot be tabled, provided that the final phase of the legislative process That is to say, the issuing of a decree to the President of the Republic to impose a deferred veto or to issue a decree promulging the act adopted at second reading. On that day, a decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was announced, which was returned to re-examine the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February. Accordingly, after a debate, the National Assembly confirmed its will regarding the changes made in the Election Code, with the agreement, except that in relation to the preferential vote, a bill has already been tabled. This is the bill that we are discussing now and is of your attention. It was commented in the context of this time arrangement so-called mirror technique. In order for there to be no speculation and manipulation in this regard, I explain that in the Law the legal and technical decision on this issue is: it is proposed to repeal the norm that contains the preferential regime, no matter what its size is under the law in force, and to create a standard with a signature additionally attached to it, which actually introduces the regime of the preferential vote, which is what our society claims to wish and what we agreed to be, i.e. with the lower threshold. For example, we have proposed the cancellation of art. 298 and simultaneously creating art. 298a, cancellation of Art. 298a Article 386 and the creation of art. 386a, cancellation of art. 454 and the creation of a new art. 454a. This is the logic of the proposed amendments, and I repeat, from a meaningful side, it is about restoring the preferential threshold as it was before the amendments voted at second reading by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019. I'm not going to go into the preferential voting regime. We have repeatedly presented to you a comparative-legal characteristic and data on preferential thresholds in European countries. We have commented on the practice in Austria, Belgium, Malta, Ireland, together with Slovenia, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Croatia and Sweden on the fact that in these electoral systems the preferential threshold is equal to the price, the value of one mandate for the respective choice. In the meantime, we also received opinions from selective law professors who comment on options regarding the preferences of both proportion and base on the basis on which this proportion relates. It is also recommended that models related to the base be established on the basis of all actual votes. Whatever! People's representatives of the Political Party GERB express and do not change in any way, we confirm our will in this bill to restore the preferential rates as they were, for better or for worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Hamid, you have the floor to express your position as an importer on the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I present to your attention the Bill amending and supplementing the Election Code submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dear colleagues, in our bill, we are making a proposal to remove a group of restrictions in the Election Code, which we believe are seriously damaging, and some of them deprive Bulgarian citizens of rights. This is not just the opinion of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. This is the opinion of the Venice Commission, this is the opinion of the European Parliament, of the limited OSS monitoring missions, of the Council of Europe missions, and some of the texts are also contained in the report of the rapporteurs of the Council of Europe on Bulgaria's progress in the post-monitoring mechanism. In short, I'll introduce you to each of them. There was a question in the Legal Commission report about allowing agition in the mother tongue. The text is not exactly correctly embedded in the report. Our proposal is to remove the ban on agition in a language other than the Bulgarian language, and in these cases we have recorded the provision of translation in the official Bulgarian language. This proposal is not being tabled for the first time and we will continue to import it because we believe that a large group of Bulgarian citizens are being discriminated against in this way, what is more, a large part of the European politicians who come to visit us during the campaigns and who, unfortunately, have not yet learned Bulgarian language. I also refer to Mr. Weber, who is studying but has not yet learned Bulgarian, and Mr. Hans Van Balen has almost learned it, but very little knows it. Only the PES can boast of a European leader who knows Bulgarian, but that is their problem. Colleagues, this discriminatory text must be removed because it contradicts both all European principles and the Bulgarian Constitution. We consider this text unconstitutional. In previous election campaigns on this text, there were 15 or 16 acts to identify administrative violations and criminal decrees were imposed for just one. Of course, the Bulgarian court annulled all criminal decrees that contradict the law. You can see that the Bulgarian court also considers this text to be discriminatory. The next group of proposals are to remove the so-called seclusion for European and local elections. I say this is called sedentary because, while sedentary as a principle in electoral law regulates where a person cannot vote and where the same can vote, in our case we say where a person cannot vote without giving him the opportunity to vote elsewhere. In this sense, it is also the European Parliament's hot recommendation in two resolutions from 2015 and 2018, where the European Parliament strongly recommends that we give our citizens living outside the territory of the European Union free to exercise their vote in European elections. Please support these proposals. And then in the debate, I'll take the attitude again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I am opening the debates on the submitted bills. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are, dear Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have introduced some texts that are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and our appeal is to support these texts in our attempt to make the Election Code conform to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, colleagues, these same texts, we have complied with various resolutions of the European Parliament, for example, since 2015, since 2018. Yesterday we proposed that these resolutions be part of the National Assembly's work programme. Although they were not put to the vote yesterday, these resolutions have nevertheless been adopted by the European Parliament and are a fact. We have complied with them and we are talking about the possibility of voting European citizens living in third countries outside the European Union. From this point of view, I am convinced that the MPs, the National Assembly, understand their responsibility and will be at the height of the MPs, at the height of the National Assembly, so that we can vote on these texts, as provided for in the Constitution, every Bulgarian citizen will have the opportunity to choose and be elected, and not with any technical questions, such as address registrations, to take away the right of voting of the Bulgarian citizens at all. More than that. We also refer to Directive 109 of the European Union, where it is provided that "EU citizens who live in other EU countries, even though they are not nationals of the country in which they live, have the right to choose and be elected in local self-government bodies, as well as in the European Parliament. From this point of view, the language restriction must be removed and those citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens should be able to conduct an active campaign in order to be elected and others should have the opportunity to make informed choices. I am convinced that these texts we will vote on in the National Assembly and accept them. Undoubtedly, one of our proposals, my fellow Members, is in connection with the previous debate on the Election Code, there has been no debate during the examination of the Election Code, here in this Chamber. It is a question of having a real, serious and responsible debate about what the threshold of preferences should be and not with false news to produce suggestions that we have almost made a proposal to drop the preferences at all. In any case, this debate did not take place during the course of the discussion last time. Our call is in the National Assembly to have a very serious, thorough, genuine debate, including in comparison with the other Member States of the European Union, and to decide which is the fairest threshold for preferences. We have other proposals in our project, so I call on us to vote on both draft amendments to the Election Code here in this House and between first and second reading to hold a very responsible public, including a public debate on the various topics. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret that there is no activity in this House because the distorted and fictional debate outside the Election Code House should be answered with a real debate here in the Chamber, honourable colleagues. I can never answer my question, and no one is able to answer from the contributors what does a reference to the rights given by the Constitution have to do with choosing and being elected? We've been deafened by the fact that raising the threshold for preference is a withdrawal of civil rights. The second, which I cannot explain at all, fellow Members, if anyone knows, let them explain it to me, I would be grateful................... what does the right to choose Bulgarian representatives in the European Parliament have to do with where you have lived the last three months? In a European country or outside a European country? How does that affect choice? What does that have to do with us introducing this ban? At least formally tell me, what does that have to do with anything? Let's put aside everything Mr. Karadayi and Mr. Hamid have said before in the debate. The only thing I regret is that the BSP is not here to see their hypocrisy on this subject again, but they will not be late to report it to us from Positano. However, I am impressed that the last month of the debate on the Election Code from there is grave silence on this issue, as if there were no such issues. Do not imitate them, colleagues! There is such a question, and if you don't mind, let's discuss why. Okay, the nationalists understand them, I don't justify them, but I do understand them. They are against the Bulgarian citizens who live in the Republic of Turkey. They say it openly, it's their ideology to hate. I don't understand you! However, we are voting for the European Parliament, but this is about citizens for the European development of Bulgaria. Even though you have coalition partners who hate you. Should we not comply with the decisions of the Venice Commission, the European Parliament and so on? I would like to assure you that there is no right and freedom movement at this time, and in the coming moments there is no serious electoral benefit if we allow Bulgarian citizens who are outside the European Union to vote for MEPs. It's a matter of principle, you know? We cannot be Europeans when it comes to euro-subsidies and when it comes to NATO and the European Union, about values, and when it comes to the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens, we cannot be Europeans. Mr. Tsvetanov, I appeal to you "I call on GERB to participate in the debate." We call on you to support our bill at first reading, as you supported at first reading and the Bill of your partners for religion. Let's make a joint bill for second reading. Then reject it, if you want, with arguments. Stand up and say: "We do not want the Bulgarian citizens who are outside the European Union for these and these reasons to vote. " Second, for the mother tongue. What's there to say two words in mother tongue in translation? What happens to the official Bulgarian language? Is it the national dignity that's being violated? National honor? Well, the other day, the president spoke English in an official conversation with a representative of a large organization, and this is not the first case. Other representatives of ours speak English, French in official.. not in Bulgarian with translation, but in the other language. Okay, so one can, the other can't?! Colleagues, I don't speak Turkish, but I took the liberty of congratulating the people who are my constituents and I was fined for it. Well, isn't that a paradox?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u24	There's a Constitution! There is a Bulgarian language here!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u25	The Constitution clearly states that the Bulgarian language is the official language, no one denies that. At each rally, every meeting is spoken in the official Bulgarian language and if five sentences are said in the mother tongue, either in English or in French, there is a translator who immediately translates them. I do not see how my national dignity as a Bulgarian is affected me. So this is complexion, colleagues! That's not national dignity! This is an absolute disregard for other people's rights! The debate is very serious and I specifically call on colleagues from GERB to take this seriously. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsonev, you have addressed to us the United Patriarchs, statements that we have been saying for years and we believe that we are right that there is really no possibility that other countries can influence the vote of Bulgarian citizens. We are not against Bulgarian citizens abroad, no matter where they live or in which country they are. We are against it, and you know it very well. We are against this other country, other politicians from other countries and other foreign services to organise the vote of Bulgarian citizens and to tell them how to vote and thus influence Bulgaria's domestic policy and determine the future of Bulgaria. None of us is against the Bulgarian citizens abroad, not in Turkey, not in Russia, not in the United States, wherever they are, and you know the problem very well. It is no coincidence that we "United Patriarchs" and, you know, during the parliamentary elections, have made it possible to stop this influence of this country by voting both in Turkey itself and on the border, because it would have entered another party that would have worked entirely for another country and for other interests. That's an indisputable fact. You of the DPS have been saying for years that you are defending Bulgarian national interests. As you claim this thing and you must be for this position, because you know there is a problem, you know there is interference from a foreign country. We, as MPs, should not allow this. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line? You have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Tsonev! You are absolutely right with the position and the arguments you have expressed, but I think you could not catch something obviously a deal. Deal between BSP and GERB. On the one hand, the BSP said: "We will leave in order not to interfere with you, just pull the manual and give back to limit the right of two million Bulgarian citizens.The deal is prominent. BSP does not interfere with GERB, and GERB limited the right of two million Bulgarian citizens to vote. Here's a deal! You didn't see that, Mr. Tsonev. This is what we received as confirmation on TV yesterday. This is how BSP achieves its goals better. Here's your deal, Mr. Tsonev! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Will there be a third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Back and forth. Dear Mr. Letifov, frankly, I am not at all interested in BSP's dealings with anyone, I am more concerned with whether they have forgotten and whether they have cleared the ideology of the revival process from their party political and parliamentary behavior. Because I like to speak frankly, my answer is no! Their parliamentary behavior, their political behaviour shows that the heiress of the BCP has not cleared of herself the ideology of the revival process. I would like to say it from this tribune so that there is no hypocrisy, not from the headquarters of the DPS of Stamboliyski. Mr. Angelov, very seriously thank you for your good tone and for hearing an argument, perhaps I do not share it, but it is an argument and I will try to refute your argument. A foreign state does not influence Bulgarian citizens, there are such submarines, there are such attempts and I believe that you were convinced that the DPS is a barrier to this influence, first. Secondly, if the foreign state tries to influence the Bulgarian citizens who will elect a MEP, let me tell you how they vote and how the MEPs work in parliament. They vote, they are members of the ALDE group and the ALDE parliamentary group, and they are strictly, firstly, the policy of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of the Liberal Party, secondly, in any case defending the Bulgarian national interest in the European Parliament, see their votes, see their speeches. Thirdly, they are in sync with the European Liberal Party. The concerns you have expressed, I think I am repaying them with these three arguments. Whatever a foreign state is trying to do, these MPs will be MPs of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, say, in the European Parliament, or representatives of GERB, or your representatives, because both from America and from the other continents and countries that are currently deprived, will also elect MPs from other parties, so this argument is not valid. Let's concentrate on solving this. [[the President signals that time has run out]] of Bulgarian citizens to vote no matter where they are. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u32	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic of the Election Code when it is discussed and when it is on the eve of an upcoming national choice, you understand that you cannot make the right assessment decision. I say this because this debate has been led in the years of both mother tongue and sedentary. I am convinced and believe that what you have said about the representatives of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, that there should actually be a debate on this subject. I am convinced that in the short term in connection with the upcoming European elections, the way in which each legislative decision, which is presented to the Bulgarian Parliament, provokes only opposition and the creation of tensions, which I think should not be the main basis for the upcoming European elections. We are ready to lead this debate, to use the expertise of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, scientists, public figures, but I think politicians today will hardly be able to make the right decision. Our position by the parliamentary group of GERB has been consistent in recent years, we had a debate on these points only a month and a half ago when we discussed the Election Code and we abstained. Again I say: I am inclined and agree, and I believe that debate and conversation can actually make us much wiser and much more mature in making important decisions that have one sustainability and long-term vision. As far as preferences are concerned. There was also a lot of speculation here, and you know what interpretations there were in the public domain, where there was talk about some deal, about twisting hands, which didn't correspond at all to the truth. What we have today, you can see that even with fellow Members of the European Union, they have different opinions on preferences. Some say it should be left to 7%, while others say it should be as some other percentage higher so that it can actually be the burden of a member of parliament who is elected with a preference, to be consistent in general terms or to approach what is the burden of a parliamentary term. We from GERB's parliamentary group have tabled a bill with which we return or want to return the old situation so that in connection with the upcoming European elections we can reduce any possible speculation about set rules, about official victories, because GERB always participates in elections according to rules that have been and before we participate in the first parliamentary elections in 2009, by rules that have been adopted by the then parliamentary majority. I am convinced that the sooner we accept the amendments to the Election Code, the sooner we will give the corresponding sustainability of the Central Election Commission to be able to concentrate on the procedural rules and methodological guidelines to be drawn up. Colleagues, the registration chronogram, the preparation for the election process of municipal electoral committees is almost under way, and I believe that we are quite delayed, but unfortunately this delay must be compensated now with shorter time and faster voting so that we know that we have a final election code which in the upcoming European elections will be able to hold the elections in the most democratic way possible, defending the rights of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Tsvetanov! From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we are not confrontational. I think the tone was very good and colleagues on the right of the House were also in this tone. It is not a confrontation and will not cause a confrontation to hold the debate between first and second reading and second reading in the Chamber. It won't take long. We don't need an opinion from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to respect the Constitution. It is clearly and very accurately recorded in art. 41, that they have the right to be elected and to choose. In no way will it take time, nor will we break the timing of the election process, nor will we cause any confrontational debate. Each party tells each other its arguments and we vote. That's the way BSP doesn't speculate on deals. There's no deal! This is where the two projects are adopted from the stands, one report is made and on each text we work here, we say our opinion and we vote to adopt the rules. I really urge you to accept this bill. I do not see any confrontation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Second line? I don't see a second line. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I was as diplomatic as possible not to name the party that provoked this tension in society and speculation and manipulation. She's absent from the plenary sessions, she doesn't go to work. I wasn't that punctual because I didn't want them to feel affected as a parliamentary group. So to all here present, every different opinion contributes to the debate held in the Bulgarian Parliament. I am talking about colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party who actually succeed from every opportunity to make false news, manipulate and make another suggestion in society. They contribute to this opposition in the society I am talking about. I don't mean the parliamentary groups present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, it has become clear from the line of colleague Angelov, I will also confirm it, the group of "United Patriarchs" will not support the bill submitted by Mr. Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs from "Movement for Rights and Freedoms." In the Legal Commission with colleague Emil Dimitrov "Revisoro," we also outlined procedural obstacles to our............................................................................................... 82, para. 3, which tells us that when we have pending proposals between first and second readings on a bill, they cannot get into a new bill without major changes in these situations. Unfortunately, the bill of colleagues is absolutely identical. You can compare it as a proposal to what we saw very recently in plenary. This debate, which they pleaded for, has already been held. The arguments on the basis of which they proposed were put forward were raised. Even if we go back a little further, you will see that these problems and these issues raised by the DPS have been debated repeatedly. Until now, they have not met the support of the majority in the Bulgarian Parliament, both in this Chamber and in the previous Chamber of the National Assembly. Regarding the bill of colleagues from GERB, I declare that from the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria we will make changes specifically in the part concerning preferences in local elections. We believe that the threshold of 7% is extremely low at this stage. We have municipalities in which with only 50 and 60 votes, that is, with the votes of one family or one family, you can rearrange the lists. We have the case of a large district town, the fourth largest city in the country, Burgas, of which, thanks to the preferential vote, there is only one lawyer in the Legal Committee. This leads us to believe that, in the local vote, this 7% threshold of preferences leads to distortion of results, to poor composition in a qualitative aspect of municipal councils, and thus to the possibility of using practices which are declared inadmissible by the law, such as buying votes, controlled corporate vote. Again, there are small municipalities in which only the family of the candidate in question to vote is absolutely enough to elect him as municipal councillor. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I suggest that we not formalise this much the requirement of the Rules, because the exact same arguments can be referred to the other bill. So I suggest we look at them both. That's my cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u42	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Here you are, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Hamid, I will not agree with you. However, we believe that in this case we are indeed in the hypothesis of art. 82, para. 3, but since we believe that these proposals should still be discussed and debated, we did not want either in the Commission or here in this House, as you can see, we are not making any requests for intolerance. We state that this is yet another procedural reason not to support this bill on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Isaev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u45	Who is this guy?! [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u46	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Right now, I'm a little torn up about how I'm gonna vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u48	Just now?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u49	My request is, if the two draft laws of our colleagues from the DSS can be voted separately, because I agree with them on the first draft. Dear colleagues, it is very difficult when there is an organization, when there is a rally and you cannot speak your mother tongue, greet people and so on. On the second bill, I do not agree with them because to be selected preferentially, I think that is the best for every Bulgarian citizen. I know they're very against preferences. My request is to them, for the Eurolist they can put me back on the list, they can put me in the last place and I will prove to them that I will become a MEP again. Of course, I'll quit later. Thank you. [[Laughter and applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Isaev. Are there lines? I can't see. Here you are, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I think we've seen the ones with preferences... [[Laughter and applause in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u52	The map!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u53	The map, please, put it on!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u54	Thank you, GERB, for stepping up at least because of the map. [[Radio.]] The debate is about the Election Code, colleagues. However, after certain invitations from us, my request is: I will ask colleagues from GERB to be at that height of governors [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] , to give an answer to the people who have chosen you, for what reason and why just 20 days ago you supported certain proposals by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. And now suddenly under the pressure of BSP, said Mr. Tsvetanov, you have changed your mind. No, that doesn't sound serious, guys! I do not believe that GERB has given up just because the BSP has shown that courage and that nationalism they do not need. Honourable Members, the Election Code is being examined in terms of how to create conditions for people to be able to safely go to vote and make sure that by voting, their vote has gone to exactly this party they voted for. That's why we're here. That's why we're doing this. Not that by proposing the engine vote, we will stop certain conditions before going to vote, and we will cancel those conditions for manipulations that may also happen. But we will allow through the engine vote to remove certain doubts about manipulations in the elections. Why not support the engine vote? What's it to you? It is therefore our request that you support this proposal that we have tabled. The second is: colleagues, there is no way you can hide and not explain to your voters why you are not giving these two and a half million citizens in Europe the opportunity not to vote? You have no argument. Why don't you go out there and tell me why you're not giving them a chance? If you don't, you won't be back at the height we expect you to be. Next, which is: preferences, colleagues. The Prima Vista is about to offer you the ones selected with preferences, to collect them, to give them the opportunity from this tribune to explain how and how they have collected their preferences. Let's give them a chance. You'll see how and how the distortion occurs. We don't want anything else from you guys. Clearly, we have the honor and valor of saying from this tribune those gaps that you cannot say them. You must find strength in you, you must find the opportunity to support now the Bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, between first and second readings to really lead those debates with which to calm society because of the wrong messages, as Mr. Tsvetanov said, from other political formations that were sent in connection with preferences [[the President signals that time has run out]] in relation to the mother tongue, in relation to the engine vote. Let us allow the National Assembly and the public outside to have another useful debate on the Election Code! Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? It's the will. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we at Volya confirm the intention we have previously stated that we will support the Bill submitted by our colleagues from GERB because they have fulfilled their promise to return this threshold, which existed before the preferential vote. Any other statements in the direction of destroying or removing our preferences are unacceptable and illogical. On the contrary, we want the preferences not to have a threshold. These threats, what people would enter if we worked preferentially, are for parties that obviously do not have enough quality representatives to offer in their lists for MPs, municipal councilors or MEPs. We of WOLF believe that only people who have the qualities and dignity to represent their voters should be listed on a list as a party proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'm putting the bill to the vote one after the other. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-8, tabled by the MP Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. Vote 139 MPs: 138, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 954-01-14, tabled by the MP Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs. 140 MPs voted: 25, 26, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, the hearing of the Minister of Tourism on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on progress in the priorities set out in the Programme for Government Management in the Sector "Tourism" will begin at 11.00 in parliamentary control time. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u58	Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! Let's continue with: HEARING OF THE TOURISM MINISTER ON PRIORITIES REFERRED TO IN THE GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM I recall that this hearing will take place, according to art. 113 of our Rules of Procedure, which states: The National Assembly and the committees elected by it may carry out a hearing on matters concerning state or public interests. I think that almost everyone is familiar with the regulation, but I will read it: When the National Assembly proceed to the hearing, the rapporteur of the proposal for a hearing shall make a presentation of the questions within five minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions, and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within two minutes, to the persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to express their views on the answers of the persons heard within five minutes of asking all questions. Mr. Boychev, please come in to present the arguments for the requested hearing. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Tourism is a leading industry in many countries and is being imposed as the fastest growing economic sector in terms of currency revenues and job creation. Tourism is characterised by practical and continuous growth, which in turn is a fact confirming the strength and sustainability of the sector. International tourism is the largest source of export revenue and, at the same time, the most important factor in the balance of payments of a significant proportion of national economies in the world. It stimulates investment in infrastructure, creates friendly intercultural links and contributes to improving the quality of life of the local population. The growing importance of the tourism industry and its global development pose a number of challenges to both society and government. The most important among them is the achievement of sustainable tourism development at local, regional, national and international level. The aim is to ensure a tourist practice that is in the interest of both society and business and which increases the well-being of the local population while preserving the natural and socio-cultural resources of the local environment. Tourism was brought out as one of the main focuss in politics of the Political Party GERB. In the context of an extremely dynamic rate of digitalization, the tourism industry is transformed radically. The National Assembly and our right, I would even say an obligation as MPs, for legislative initiatives, enables and engages us with the difficult task of adapting national legislation so that it adequately corresponds to the modern environment. Developing and implementing the necessary regulatory framework facilitates the maximum easing of business to strengthen control and to illuminate the gray sector. The creation of an independent Ministry of Tourism to ensure the public interest of those involved with the sector is undoubtedly a step from which the Bulgarian tourism industry had an extreme need to implement the necessary level of dialogue between state, local authority and business. I dare say that all my colleagues in my multi-mandated area have always consistently defended the idea of structuring a separate Ministry of Tourism and to date I can confirm that this move was definitely correct. As a witness, I can point out the three consecutive years with a record number of foreign tourist visits, as well as record proceeds from international tourism, which BNB registered. The tourism industry marks extremely dynamic global development, with Europe able to attract more than 50% of tourists around the world, bearing in mind that last year's data is worth more than 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes 300 million we have outside tourists, outside the territory of the countries. This is yet another basic reason for the need to develop this industry. The fact is that according to the latest data of EUROSTATE Bulgaria ranks among the countries with a higher than the average for the European Union indicator at the accommodations. This shows the published data according to the preliminary data of EUROSTAT on statistics for 2018. According to the data, the accommodation accommodations with 10 beds and more in our country are over 26.8 million last year and the reported growth is over 3 percent. The average EU-registered increase is 2.2%. Our country is growing ahead of countries such as Denmark - 2.7 per cent, France - 2.4 per cent, Greece - 0,5%, and Italy - 1.9%. These facts are further proof that the efforts to promote the country as a destination for quality tourism with various opportunities for rest result. What has been achieved over the past three years should ambitious us to make maximum efforts to maintain the interest of tourists. However, we are aware that 2019 for Bulgarian tourism will be a year filled with challenges due to the extremely high level of international competition, stagnating currency dynamics in some traditional markets, as well as the traditional problem with the retention of quality and qualified staff in this sector. In the light of the above, in the context of the hearing procedure, please present to the Members of the National Assembly the development of specific measures and initiatives set out in the Government's Management Programme on implementation and progress on specific priorities in the field of tourism. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, please come in for an exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, thank you for the opportunity to present the current information on the progress of the measures and objectives set out in the Management Program on the sector "Tourism." As you know, these discussions are conducted regularly in the portfolio committee in active mode, but also in the context of this procedure, I will note for the record that we are talking about a total of 29 measures laid down in the management programme for a 4-year period, and I will try to give a maximum response to each of them. I also trust that the following discussion will address specific issues that will clarify certain points. You know that structuring an independent office in the mandate of Cabinet Borisov 2 was extremely important for improving the business climate in the field of tourism and improving the dialogue between stakeholders. Through optimal recovery of the country's tourist potential, we create real economic opportunities to increase the living standards of local communities and expand the share of the tourism industry in the total share of gross domestic product. In implementation of the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 - 2021, the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism are aimed at implementing the sector priority for the country to be established as a year-round tourist destination with a high quality and diverse tourism product. The successive steps taken to implement the proposed priority policies in the country mark remarkable growths. Foreign tourists in Bulgaria have increased by 31% in the last four years and revenues have increased by 34%. Last year's total tourism revenue is 8 billion. 400 million. lv. according to BNB data, 2018 was a third year in a row for Bulgarian tourism, Bulgaria was visited by more than 9 million. 200,000. foreign tourists. A total of more than 27 million nights, totaled by Bulgarians and foreigners, were realized last year and only by the Bulgarians who spent the night in our country had realized more than 9 million. Five hundred thousand. Nights. This sets our country at one of the leading places in the European Union with regard to the realised nights and revenues from international tourism. I also share the importance of the challenges facing us today's reality and the need to maintain the necessary level of competitiveness against the aggressive market policy of our direct competitors. Despite the fierce competition and extremely limited resource available to the Ministry of Tourism compared to the other destinations we have to fight, we are doing our best to reduce the possible difference compared to the previous record season. This year is turning out to be extremely difficult and dynamic, but I hope that, together with business and local authorities and the measures we have taken, we will be able to keep the level of tourists that we had last year. Of course, we are also working towards developing a long-term mechanism that will enable us to expand the wings of the season, especially with regard to our Black Sea resorts and in general the entire Black Sea region, as well as, of course, where mainly our winter resorts are focused and inside the country, which is part of our basic policy. We are about to develop a proposal within a month to create such a mechanism that will allow our country to be competitive in terms of attracting as many charters as possible towards our airports in respect of all our target markets. All of this is being done in accordance with European and national legislation. It is within a month, as I mentioned, to present to your attention and to the public the mechanism that we are going to propose to be set up. In it, I stress, will participate together with us and the municipalities, and the business, so that we can together define each year and certainly a year earlier the priority directions and thus ensure one, stress, organised tourist traffic, that is, tourists staying in registered accommodations. What is extremely important to us, and taking into account the specifics and profile of the tourist sector, we focus as much on creating sustainable development and promoting other important, outside our summer and winter tourism, tourism products such as cultural and historical tourism, balneo- and spa tourism, wine and culinary based on the destinations we developed last year. Also all other types of tourism related to the development of golf tourism, adventure tourism, which give added value to our main winter and summer product. What we have also set ourselves a goal this year and are about to realise as a first step in May is to focus pilotly on our national resorts as possible destinations for congress tourism. I believe that this will further enable the extremely good material base that we have to use throughout the year. In this regard, we will have a very large international investment forum in Sunny Beach at the end of the month "on 31 May 2019," so that we can focus on international investors, particularly related to congress tourism and the attraction of large hotel chains, so that we can make Bulgaria a more sustainable year-round tourist destination and thus create an opportunity to use the existing material base, on the one hand, and create additional year-round employment, and, of course, increase the revenues in local communities. Another important priority that we have placed outside Bulgaria's primary destination is the creation of tourist management organisations. At the moment there are seven such organisations created, the other two are in a procedure, each of which can benefit from the resource that we have been able to provide through the Innovation and Competitiveness Programme. It is aimed only at tourism management organisations precisely at creating a common marketing policy, a common policy for promoting the strengths in the sector of tourism of these regions, to participate in professional exchanges and exhibitions. Accordingly, there is also a second phase of this project relating to the creation of special digital marketing in relation to each region, given the global trends related mainly to digitalisation in the sector. We also provide assistance through external experts of the activities of each of these organizations so that we can ensure maximum connectivity and consistency as set out in the National Strategy for Sustainable Development by 2030 and in the Management Plan, so that we focus again on Bulgaria as a tourist destination. The main challenge in the sector is also related to tourism personnel. In this regard, we have taken many steps. Of course, the result cannot be seen the next day, but with regard to the short-term measures we have taken relating to the provision of seasonal employment and the attraction of seasonal workers, the amendments to the Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Act and its Rules of Procedure were adopted, and last year only for the summer season there were over 7800 seasonal workers employed from third countries. This year, too, we expect a similar figure, and it may rise. In parallel, we signed an agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the use of qualification and requalification with focus sector "Tourism" of the joint Bulgarian German professional center and mainly in the branches in Tsarevo and in Smolyan. There is also a Tourism Council with the Ministry, including which we are currently developing a long-term concept with regard to those employed in the sector. Both representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science and of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and representatives of business and university circles participate in this Council. So we continue in this direction very hard. I will mark very quickly, because I see that the time is up, and for the ECTI system that we have presented, for connecting the registers with the NRA, the Ministry of Interior via secure channels, and the municipalities, of course, and the sector. With regard to reducing the administrative burden with the latest amendments to the Tourism Act, 19 documents were dropped, which were required in each of the procedures. The ministry was also the first administration to introduce 24/7 electronic services for all services that are under the Tourism Act with both electronic signature and facial identification. There is a tourism bill to clarify the status of the national resorts. Of course, with regard to the management of sea beaches since 2015. Since the Ministry of Tourism managed them, revenues have risen from 13 million in 2015 to 18 million 500 thousand. The number of protected beaches for which there are concession contracts and rental contracts has increased significantly. Of course, the main Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act relating to the imposition and clarification of forced administrative measures for both the preservation of dunes, on the one hand, which are located on the territory of sea beaches, and for more detailed precision of each of the administrative violations, penalties and control bodies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. We start with the loop questions. The Parliamentary Group of GERB is welcome. You have the opportunity to ask the first question to which we will wait for an additional answer. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your presentation. It has indeed affected extremely many aspects of the ministry's work. My question is related to the need for greater, detailed information on the Single Tourism Information System, as this system is a key commitment from the Ministry's activities of extreme importance to those employed in the sector in terms of brightening the grey economy. The scale of the system's scope is also significant, and as you said, the introduction of the system reduces the administrative burden and goes towards the electronicisation of the government. I have been informed that more than 18 thousand are categorized accommodations and persons operating should operate with it. In this sense, it is also important to take into account the fact that the implementation of the system should in no way result in disruptions in the commercial turnover and the normal economic process of operators, since for entrepreneurs and employees in the sector, naturally, the predictable and calm working environment is first of all. You have already announced that a local training schedule has been set up, headed by pilot municipalities to implement the system. In this sense, I ask you to familiarize the National Assembly with the current state under Measure 792 of the Management Program: The introduction and maintenance of a Single Information Platform for communication on protected channels between the persons entered in the National Tourist Register and the registers of the NRA, the Ministry of Interior, the municipalities and the National Statistical Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u64	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexieva, improving the working conditions of the business, reducing the administrative burden and creating a highly sustainable infrastructure for e-government are key priorities in the government's activities. The construction and implementation of the Single Tourism Information System is one of the main tasks in the work of the Ministry of Tourism. The design and development of the Single Tourism Information System is legally justified in art. Art. 116, Art. Art. 165, Art. 166 of the Tourism Act, according to Art. 116, para. 1 of the Tourism Act, the persons holding hotel services, keep a register of accommodated tourists with the content of the data established by the Minister of Tourism. The ECTI shall cover the process of collecting and generating aggregated information on the basis of the overnight data submitted from accommodation locations and data on persons not nationals of the Republic of Bulgaria, a Member of the European Union, the Swiss Confederation or Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, from which they are provided under certain procedures through relevant export and interfaces in certain formats. The Ministry of Tourism, the National Revenue Agency, the National Statistical Institute, municipalities and the Ministry of Interior are those institutions that have access to the Single Tourism Information System. I would like to emphasise that the Single Tourism Information System is not public. Strictly guarantee the protection of personal data and compliance with the GDPR Regulation, the Single System is so established that it should integrate the National Tourist Register, which is actually the visible and public part of the system with the so-called Open Data, but one is the Single Tourist Information System, the other is the National Tourist Register. In this regard, after nearly two years of delay in the development of the system following an appeal, last year, in fact the month of June, we signed a contract with the selected contractor "Technologies" and somewhere in mid-February we presented the completed type of software of the Single Tourist Information System, so in practice this part has been implemented. We are currently working on the most essential and fundamental part so that the system can be useful and functioning, because it itself, in order for it to work for us and for all administrations, must be fed with data. That is, all data from the National Tourist Register to be exported into it, and this process is currently under way, and for exporting data we have over 18,000 accommodations, as you have noted. At the same time, the trainings that we have organised in a very strict graphic plan are also going so that both the municipalities that are main users of the system and the business can be trained showed by us on the ground, and we have created the necessary information materials, including the so-called video teacher, so that every single accommodation can train the so-called super user who should be presented with us and we can issue a unique identification code. What we have also done at the moment, and what we are about to lens and in the upcoming changes to the Tourism Act, is precisely this unique identification code for each accommodation, so that it can have a lot and any change that should be reflected under the relevant number, as so far the practice shows that not in every municipality this has happened regularly and in practice very often duplicate records are also observed. In order to be able to clear everything, we have given until 1 October to both accommodation and municipalities with our help, maximumly, in an efficient order to carry, on the one hand, data from the National Tourist Register and, on the other hand, to be trained with the work in the system. Once the system is operational, we will have a huge database that will enable both us as a portfolio ministry and each municipality to calculate in advance the revenues from tourism that enter the municipality. We've built a unique module, I'd say, a last word of technology, where with special boxes are made tables that ask in advance what kind of analyses we want to do. This will certainly give us the opportunity to plan for a year, but in tourism it is very important to plan for a minimum of five years ahead in order for all requests from the relevant markets to start negotiating. With this database and with this mechanism, we will have the opportunity to really be much more competitive. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, this mechanism also allows for an extremely large fight against the grey economy and will lead, in our view, to the most pessimistic forecast that we have set within three years of 20% lightening the nights in the sector. Of course, there is to be monitoring every year with regard to the operation of the system. In the Ministry of Tourism, I have established an organisation for the work of a special committee for 24/7, which monitors the implementation of ESTI, in which we also have representatives from the State Agency for Electronic Governance, who have provided absolutely all the resources related to the protection of hardware and data storage, because we are talking here about a large volume of information that should be stored, so that we can help as much as possible the efforts of both the National Revenue Agency and the municipalities, of course, and the Ministry of Interior. Speaking of the Ministry of Interior, at the moment, under the current Law on Tourism in the ECTI system, full data are being given to all persons who are not from the Member States of the European Union and, respectively, bilateral agreements with the Swiss Confederation. After the change in the Ministry of Interior Act and the Tourism Act, what we are currently discussing will only then be able to collect the full amount of data with regard to the needs of the Ministry of Interior. But here I stress: only and only the Ministry of Interior under the Ministry of Interior Act has access to them. The tourism ministry as an administrator will not be able to see them because they will arrive in an encrypted version, so as to ensure as much as possible that each institution will have access to the data according to the explicit legal powers it has. I hope from 1 October, together with you, we can do local inspections on how the system works. Here I would like to point out that when we talk about places that are remote, where there is no required coverage of the Internet, we have requested such information from the Communications Regulation Commission, respectively with my order these settlements will be announced on the website of the Ministry. For them there is a separate procedure with which they complete the data in a special table, respectively through a web-based interface with a special password once a week are introduced, but here we are mainly talking about places that are very low category We have given enough opportunity for business to choose the three forms that exist under the data entry system so that this does not further cost their services. We have also started with five pilot municipalities, which at the time of 98%, figuratively speaking, the data about them has been incorporated into the system. These are Sofia, Plovdiv, Sozopol, Velingrad and Vratsa and, as I said, the schedule of trainings that are extremely important so that we can really have a smooth functioning of the system and no stress regarding the business environment continues. We will continue to inform you strictly about the commitments made and their compliance accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u66	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Mrs. Nikolova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in your exposé you said that in the priorities of the Government Management Programme for 2017 " 2021" there is a reduction in the administrative burden, which will undoubtedly improve the business environment. The Ministry of Tourism has achieved certain successes from your statement we understand that many documents have been dropped, but I believe that there is still an opportunity to optimize the regime for registration and categorization of economic entities. My question to you is: do you foresee further changes to the Tourism Act to further reduce the administrative burden on economic entities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Dear Minister Angelkova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, one of the most important priorities of the government is, of course, reducing the administrative burden, as one of the most important goals that we have also set for this priority in the forthcoming changes to the Tourism Act and, accordingly, its regulations, is to continue to optimize the working process and to further reduce the administrative burden for citizens and for businesses, in addition to those 19 documents that have already dropped out and which we have managed to implement thanks to your support with the previous amendments to the Tourism Act. With regard to the registration regime of tour operators and travel agencies, further proposals are to be made, which are subject to the Tourism Act, to further facilitate the work of the Expert Commission for the Registration of Tour Operators and Tourist Agents, so that this does not result in delays in the process of issuing certificates. In this regard, it is envisaged that all documents should be considered within 14 days of their entry, such as their compliance with the requirements of the Tourism Act and, if necessary, if this requires further adjustment, to take place within a day or two. This service is also included in the electronic and is electronized to those services that we have presented and which can also be carried out remotely.. 24/7, which I mentioned. In practice, once the new amendments to the Law are adopted, then by law the Commission will be obliged not later than 14 days to rule on all the files and to have a result accordingly. In the same way, we have provided for such deadlines in the Expert Committee on the categorization of tourist sites for accommodation and feeding sites. Currently, a working group is working, which has been set up by business representatives and all interested parties, for changes to the Ordinance on categorisation and re-categorisation of accommodation and feeding places in order to further drop the documents that have somehow remained in this document in the years, if I may say so, or no longer need them in view of the changes that have occurred in the sector. For us, it is extremely important that these changes be made so that, on the one hand, they relieve businesses and citizens, but on the other hand, this does not lead to a reduction in the quality of the service that will be offered. In this spirit, changes are being developed in the Ordinance, which I quoted, including in the Ordinance on thalasso-therapeutic wellness centers, spa centers, so that we further reduce the administrative burden, but also guarantee the quality of the service. Changes are also forthcoming in the Regulation on tour guides and mountain guides, again in this direction, so I hope that within the next month by June at the latest, and for most other documents by September, October this will be a fact, and, of course, the deadlines for the work of the expert committees should be adjusted in the Law on Tourism, so that the colleagues working in them can also take into account and ensure as short a time as possible for the service of citizens and businesses. That is what we are doing further on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u70	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. We are continuing with a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. He will be asked by Mrs. Shevked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in relation to your exhibition, I would like to stress the need that the potential of small and less known destinations should be one of your ministry's priorities. A systematic approach is, of course, necessary for this purpose. In my capacity as MP from Kardzhali district, I cannot fail to appreciate the importance of the Perperikon destination, which is already quite popular and has become an attractive tourist travel centre. But at the same time, I pay attention to you... and you are also from Kardzhali that other municipalities in the district also have huge potential. I am referring to the municipalities of Ardino and Momchilgrad at first reading, and in Ardino is the Devil's Bridge, an exceptional facility, the complex of the Belly Brezi, for the municipality of Momchilgrad I think of Harmon Kaya or the fossil forest, stressing on them with the idea that the state should also work together with the local authorities. You announced that such a campaign was launched for a mechanism, which you will introduce together with small municipalities, to promote these travels and their focus will be smaller municipalities in Bulgaria. In this regard, my question to you is: will some of the municipalities be possible and those I listed just now in Kardzhali District, part of this campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Shevked. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Shevked, thank you for this question. For us, indeed, this year is a priority in terms of promoting domestic tourism and, above all, using the fact that Bulgaria attracts through its national resorts, which are the image of Bulgarian tourism, to direct this tourist to the interior of the country, so that, on the one hand, to offer a diverse tourist product and on the other hand, to show the few familiar places in Bulgaria, which even we ourselves do not know. In this regard, while maintaining, of course, a systematic and sustainable approach to the development of the sector, we launched a special campaign in February to promote internal tourism, which is primarily aimed at small settlements, of course, both Ardino and Momchilgrad are included in the campaign, including Black Eyeing is included in the campaign. We have included absolutely all small settlements, including my personal priority as a minister, to be in place with some of their most significant events, as well as the organisation of various events to promote the efforts that local authorities along with local business and, accordingly, the population make so that they can make their place more attractive for life and attract interest further, and hence create new economic preconditions for the development of the region. In this regard, we are, literally within this week, to publish an additional calendar of events that we have pledged for this year, related only to small settlements. I stress here: this calendar will no longer overlap the National Tourist Advertising Programme, so I also highlight small settlements. I'm setting an example that just comes to mind. On May 5th we will be in Banite Municipality Smolyanski, an extremely important place where there is one of the best quality mineral waters, so there we will have a very serious debate on the topic together with BUBSPA. There are other such debates, discussions, and on Saturday I will be called on the same subject. Indeed, as I said, the focus is on what small municipalities offer: cultural-historic tourism, especially in our region in Kardzhali, is not only Perperikon, you also said about the Devil's Bridge. There are extremely many tourist attractions that are unknown and which we need to promote together. In addition, additional videos are yet to come, besides the one who made Kubrat Pulev as a face of the campaign, are expected with many other Bulgarian prominent individuals who are fond of the homeland and have joined our campaign to help us in the efforts we make to make few known places. It's like marketing, on the one hand. On the other hand, we have focused our efforts where there is a material base, because it is also extremely important that we draw the attention of large tour operators to these places so that they include combined products. I give an example: for last summer, the district of Varna may have visits from about two million foreign tourists for the months from May to September, and Shumen and Pliska, which are literally 90 km away, welcome dramatically fewer tourists within 80 We are also working in the direction of creating a special financial instrument. Here we have the support of both the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, as well as the European Parliament and the Commission to promote small and medium-sized tourism businesses. At present, the proposed instrument is worth 300 million. in writing. - (PT) The euro only for businesses in the sector, at European level, direct, so that its development is forthcoming and we will rely on your assistance so that we can really best identify what is important to the business that works in the sector, particularly, I stress, within the country. In this way we can make Bulgaria an attractive year-round tourist destination and thus we can increase the tourist traffic and create jobs in each of these settlements because our country has huge tourist potential that we need to use, and that is our goal. Of course, there is no way to implement it without your help, without the cooperation of local authorities and businesses. Tourism is a horizontal sector and requires joint efforts in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u74	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. Under procedure, there is a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists. Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u75	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of e-government is of great importance to us by the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers and for the whole society. We at Volya are monitoring every step in the process of implementing the Single Tourism Information System. You know that we are pragmatists, people of the real economy, who have always objectively supported the positive and real steps to relieve citizens and businesses, but have been uncompromising in criticism of actions that we do not approve. In this context is also my question to you. You explained quite thoroughly to the question of the colleague from GERB what is the Single Tourism Information System, but it did not become clear at what level the electronic services that your administration provides to the Bulgarian citizens were implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Christova! The application of electronic administrative services provided by the Ministry of Tourism is now possible via the Single Portal for Electronic Administrative Services: EGOV.BG. In addition to the measures taken from December 2018, all administrative services provided by the Ministry of Tourism under the Tourism Act are accessible through the specially established by the Ministry of Tourism platform, which can be used, including through a smartphone, remotely, as I said in the exhibition, 24 hours a day 7 days a week. It is also an additional facilitation for citizens with regard to these services that we have introduced is that, apart from the classic way, the PIN code, the qualified electronic signature can also be placed through facial recognition. The Ministry of Tourism is the first administration to provide this type of electronic services in Bulgaria, which are developed with a special platform. I would like to reiterate that the requirements for the protection of personal data and the GDPR regulation are fully met. They're all guaranteed over 100%. The new platform also enables it to be used not only in Bulgaria, but also in the territory of the European Union, and we are currently developing the possibility to be used by other third countries, which are key and key markets for Bulgaria. So you won't have to come to the Ministry building and waste time accordingly. We are also developing to this platform and we are also about to implement what is called virtual banking, so that the charges for the service required are paid through the so-called VR-banking, so that they can further guarantee both the quick and easy use of this service Thus, with immediate feedback from the applicant the service will be done literally immediately while you are at home, or you have five or ten minutes off to do this job. The Ministry's efforts in this direction were also awarded by BAIT "Bulgarian Association of Information Technologies." We are the first government administration to receive such a high reward and appreciation for the efforts of the Ministry's team for implementing this type of services. We are yet to further build on the work of this system. For the first year of its operation it is free. Then for each applicant the subscription we have made is 2 BGN. a month, which, figuratively speaking, does not even cover several hours of parking in the Blue Zone here in Sofia. We continue to work very hard in this direction. The Ministry of Tourism has also successfully joined the inter-registered exchange environment of RegiX by requesting access from registers data, referring to fields in the middle of the so-called inter-registered exchange. We have reached the maximum number of correspondents in this direction. In addition, together with the State Agency for Electronic Governance in November, we participated in a project under the Programme "Good Governance" for the upgrade of horizontal and central electronic management systems. I can assure you that our top priority is to continue to work hard in this direction, because we believe that this is how we benefit citizens, businesses, society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u78	Thank you, dear Minister. I will now give the floor to Mr. Panchev, who will ask a question on behalf of the non-member MPs in a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u79	Mrs. Chairman, colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister! Madam Minister, I have listened to what you have given me. I would like to congratulate you on the progress made in the development of the industry that you undoubtedly have contributed to. Tourism is a sector that has given and will give a lot to Bulgaria because we are a destination that is accepted by many people around the world and millions of people come to Bulgaria. Unfortunately, there are still unused opportunities. I'd only stop for a few moments. First, Madam Minister, national advertising, the money invested in advertising in tourism is returned a hundred times and even more when this is done regularly, annually and all opportunities are used both in Bulgaria and abroad to do so. Here I would like to congratulate you for doing this type of advertising, even using some other friendly methods, which brings advertising to Bulgaria. That's an important question. The money needed for national advertising should be placed by the government in the Ministry's budget and used fully. Dear Minister, two ministries could help you develop tourism and work in Bulgaria. One is the Ministry of Health. With their contacts and contacts, for example, with the Health Insurance Fund in Germany could significantly increase the visits of holidaying pensioners, sick people in Bulgaria. Another particularly great opportunity, Madam Minister, is the visa regime that specifically affects Russian tourists. That's a huge problem. Russian tourists were once the largest in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, they've dropped considerably. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs finds the right mechanism and is issued perennial, ten-year, multiple visas, it will significantly increase the tourist flow from Russia and neighbouring countries, and these are attractive tourists for this business in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Minister Angelkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Panchev, thank you for the question and for supporting the efforts of the Ministry of Tourism. Since we created the Ministry, we were able to adopt the National Tourist Advertising Program a year earlier, so together with the representatives of the National Tourism Council, where we discuss and accept this document, to draw up the main priorities related to Bulgaria's advertising and marketing as a year-round tourist destination. Of course, thanks to both the support of both the Prime Minister and the cabinet, I stress what has been said in previous answers. Tourism is horizontal. Much of the resources needed for tourism, because yes, on the one hand, we advertise and want to address our country as an attractive tourist destination, but on the other hand, it is very important that when they visit us, we have a high quality tourist product. Therefore, our main efforts are also aimed at improving the infrastructure, both in transport and in the field of the environment. We've been talking about reducing the administrative burden. What's happening in the sector is extremely important for the development of the sector "Tourism" because the personnel form 90% of the tourist service. We are working in extremely many directions and together with the support of colleagues, because the sector is a priority and has shown within the last three years and the results of them, which I quoted in the exhibition that there is still a lot of unused potential. Regarding your comments in the specifics related to the Ministry of Health and Russian tourists, I will give you a little more information. We are working extremely well with the Ministry of Health, especially in the direction of what you have pointed out in your question concerning health cases. Literally on 5 March this year, we had a big discussion in Berlin, attended by representatives of the health insurance and the German Health Ministry. Currently, I inform you in advance that together with the Bulgarian Association of Balneology and Spa Tourism, we are about to organize information tours of German health registers. We're waiting to set the exact dates, and we'll let you know if we're interested. They will visit the accommodations that meet their requirements so that we can start real work with them and send not only their pensioners, but all the people who have an interest in the country to use the services of our centers. We will further increase our interest in this type of activity. We are making very big progress after the two-three-year efforts we are making to work in this direction with health care cases. With regard to a market such as Russia, we are also making great efforts. The Russian market is strategic for us, especially when we talk about our summer tourism. In this regard, we held a number of meetings as in Moscow and during the visit of the President of the Government of the Russian Federation Mr. Medvedev. You know that the main focus during his visit was placed precisely on the sector "Tourism." We have organised a very large tourist forum so that we can show as much as possible the additional potential in the development of these relationships. Including me, I returned from Moscow on Monday, where we took part in the big tourist exhibitions of Intur Marquette and MITT. On Monday I also had the honour of giving a lecture at IGIMO as one of the major universities in the territory of the Russian Federation, which cooperates with Bulgarian universities, so as to strengthen our relations with regard to the internships that could take place here in the country. We are also working towards returning the greater interest in children's camps in the country. We have a specially developed joint programme in this regard and we are about to adopt a special regulation that we are discussing with the Ministry of Education and Science, which clearly regulates the requirements regarding children's camps, so that we further strengthen the interest of this type of tourism that we have practiced. Also with regard to visas and visa regime, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and personally the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva are making extremely hard efforts so as to help ours as far as possible to be attractive and competitive enough on this issue. They were created, thanks to the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 59 export visa centres across the territory of the Russian Federation, where literally from any major city visa applications can be submitted. We are also further discussing issues within the framework and, of course, fully respecting the requirements of European and national legislation for issuing multi-annual tourist visas for one and three years. So I really hope that, very soon, when we have a specific on this subject, we will make the appropriate official announcement, because I am sure, and you are right in this respect that we will further increase our interest in our country as a tourist destination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u82	Thank you. There is a question again from GERB's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelkova, in your exhibition you addressed the theme of the establishment and functioning of the organization for management of tourist areas. One of the tasks of sustainable development is undoubtedly the balanced development of all regions in the country in order to improve the quality of living standards of the local population. Our country is extremely rich both in cultural historical artifacts and has unique natural resources that, in proper planning and advertising, could develop successfully and gain great popularity. Traditionally in time Bulgaria is identified as a country with sea and winter holidays. I understand that these are persistent attitudes that are difficult to change, but it is a fact that the authentic spirit and culture of smaller settlements, combined with quality ecological food, are also extremely attractive especially in good advertising. In this regard, my question is as follows: how many of the tourist management organisations are implementing activities to promote tourism opportunities, and what are the means for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev. Minister Angelkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirchev, seven of the nine organizations for management of tourist areas are currently established and the eighth and ninth are in the procedure of establishment. Here we are talking about representatives of 184 municipalities that enter within the already established seven tourist organizations. The technology of the support of these structures, as I explained in the exhibition, is along the line of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness " 2014 - 2020. The Ministry of Tourism is a specific beneficiary of the procedure for providing institutional support for activities related to increasing the capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises, providing the opportunity for regional branding and presentation of national and international exhibitions through participation in various events, initiatives and conferences. It also provides logistical maintenance and technical equipment of the work of organizations, preparation of the necessary manuals, practical documents needed for their functioning, as well as a series of trainings and implementation of established practices and implementation of the specified objectives of work. The expected result of the project implementation is to increase the competitiveness and capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector of Tourism and also increase the level of awareness of their potential for the services and products they offer. On 11 March 2019 the Ministry of Tourism submitted a pulpik and a second project proposal to improve the quality of services of small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism through the use of information and communication technologies and web-based marketing. This project aims to upgrade the first Pulpik project and increase the quality of services of small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism. A virtual tourist platform is also included, which will contain detailed information about each of the tourist areas such as product types, tourist routes, developed tourist destinations, multimedia catalogue, presentation of current events in the different regions and so on. Through the mechanisms of digital marketing we also plan to promote tourist areas in online space and in social networks. In addition, promotional campaigns will be held in Bulgarian and international televisions, in the Sofia subway, and through external advertising of billboards. In this way, it aims to promote individual tourist areas in the country, increase the tourist accommodation and, of course, to support small and medium-sized businesses in the relevant areas, which are part of the tourist management organisations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Mr. Sabanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister of Tourism! We all know that the main factor in improving the quality of the tourist services provided in the overall tourist service is the good professional training of the tourism workers. The fact is that Bulgaria is a wonderful country that gives nothing to its competitors, and I personally appreciate your efforts to promote it as a preferred destination for tourism. However, the problem of lack of footage remains. No matter how positive and beautiful the environment, and wonderful nature bad service leaves lasting bad impressions in the guests. In this regard, in your exhibition, as you said, that nearly seven thousand foreign citizens have worked in the field of tourism, they are part of the problem, although it is a fact that professionals who are employed in the field of our professionals, many of them find realization abroad. I have precisely such considerations on the footage from third countries that can solve this problem long-term. In this sense, my question to you relates to this: what specific measures does the Ministry take, and you specifically, in the direction of qualification and training for the needs in the industry? Given that it is nice to use our Bulgarian footage, to campaign towards making footage of areas with great unemployment, such as Silistra, which is to an area with a maritime part. Thank you. I hope you can answer my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Minister Angelkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Sabanov, first of all, I would like to inform you that we are working hard on implementing the overall state policy for the development of human resources in tourism. The work of the Interdepartmental Council for Tourism Staff, which was established on 22 February 2016. It was established as an inter-agency body with advisory and coordination functions regarding the development and implementation of tourism staff policies. The Interdepartmental Council discusses measures related to providing the necessary personnel in the field of tourism, such as organising courses to improve staff qualification, issues with the conduct of internships in the field of tourism, also establishing a mechanism for interaction between the Ministry of Tourism, educational and research institutions to support the functions related to the recruitment of analysis, summary, information and preparation of forecasts for the development of tourism in relation to the staff related to it. At the last meeting, a decision was adopted to create a special concept for the development of human resources in tourism. The document will focus on creating, holding and attracting staff in tourism with a specific action plan. With regard to seasonal workers, this was one of the short-term measures included in the Interdepartmental Council's work plan for tourism staff and, which was successfully implemented with the amendments to the Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Act and its Implementation Rules. Of course, as you have rightly pointed out, the most important objective in order to ensure sustainability in the sector and long-term competitiveness is the implementation of long-term objectives relating to the development of staff in the sector and the creation of an opportunity for both qualification and requalification, on the one hand and, of course, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, for the development and operation of mechanisms, particularly related to vocational schools of tourism, so that this leads to long-term and lasting planning and ensuring long-term and long-term employment. However, with regard to this short-term priority relating to seasonal workers and especially their qualification and requalification, not only to seasonal workers, but of course to all other staff in tourism, we have signed an Agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in which the Bulgarian-German Centre for Vocational Training will provide the necessary qualification and requalification of staff in the sector at our branches in Tsarevo and Smolyan. There is currently a very clear and strict plan of action. We have business requests to train their staff through the Centre and based on the Agreement, which is signed by several both hotel and tour companies. Currently the requests are for about 800 persons, and, I stress, this is information from two weeks ago. I will collect more up-to-date data and provide them to you specifically. I believe that this mechanism is a small but very important step towards ensuring the possibility of further qualification and requalification, and, of course, thanks to the support of colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we are going in the direction of developing and implementing the long-term mechanisms for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u90	Thank you, dear Minister. Will there be a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists? There won't be. We continue with the expression of attitude by the parliamentary groups. Welcome on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! I use my right of reference on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the procedure for hearing the Minister of Tourism. The fact is that since its creation the Ministry of Tourism has been working hard and responsible for increasing the revenues and development of tourism in Bulgaria. Therefore, first of all, I would like to assure you that in the face of the GERB parliamentary group, you will always have a strong partner in terms of ambitious tasks and initiatives that stand before the Ministry. In essence, the attitude towards the progress of the measures and objectives of the Government Management Programme in the sector of tourism and tourism, I will try to summarize in the following way. We appreciate the rate of work on the main government priorities related to the commitment to reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses and the electronicisation of administrative services. We see that you have achieved concrete results in this direction. Congratulations on your innovative approach to digitalization of services. With regard to marketing policy, we should also objectively note that against the backdrop of the limited financial resources for national advertising compared to our direct competitors, the country is gaining optimal popularity on the relevant target markets, including both traditional and promising. The figures you quoted about the growth of foreign tourists and tourism revenues are eloquent for the efforts you are making. Bulgaria is increasingly recognizable and I am convinced that we are competitive on the basis of the exceptional natural resources that our regions possess. This variety of tourism products obliges us to be as responsible as possible with regard to the use of our country's tourist potential, especially about the opportunities for practicing all year round mountain, balneo and spa tourism. For each of us, it is important that Bulgaria is not only a preferred destination with preserved nature, but that the relevant opportunities for economic activity of the local communities are developed as well. Regarding the policy of creating specific cultural-historic, balneo, spa and wine-culinary routes, I consider it a positive approach to cover a maximum number of settlements that have potential but suffer from low popularity. It is also important to continue paying attention to the Bulgarian tourist, which we will attract as a potential customer of the home tourism industry. The regional marketing opportunities created along the tourism management organisations are also definitely a positive sign for small settlements that they can also develop. The challenges facing the sector continue to be linked to the provision of qualified and professional personnel. I understand that you are also making an effort in this direction, but it is a fact that the problem wants a long-term approach. We expect changes to the Tourism Act where you address the other main case in the sector, as is the status of national resorts. Once again, I would like to state the support you have from the parliamentary group for your efforts and also assure you that today's dialogue has been extremely fruitful, that it will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Attitude from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs? I can't see. From the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists? It's not relevant. Let's thank Minister Angelkova for participating in today's hearing. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Mr. Karakachanov has presented a hospital list and will not be able to appear in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the issue of Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova. The issue is from the MP Krastina Taskova about the demographic crisis. Here you are, Mrs. Taskova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u93	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, on 21 November 2018, you were elected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria for Economic and Demographic Policy. Then you did not present your priorities in this House, but at a briefing in front of the media you identified some of the priorities you will be working on. You described the children of Bulgaria as gold and said that their health and overcoming the demographic collapse would be a priority in your work. Having firmly stated that you have the support of the Cabinet, we at Volya expect not just measures, but concrete results in this area. However, in the budget, which we voted on a month after your election, we did not see such measures. There was no increase in one-time relief for a live-born child, and scholarships for excellent students remained unchanged. The clinical pathways in children's healthcare also, i.e. at least money for children's health and unchanged financial incentives to increase birth rates. We observe in countries like Austria that such tools are used and give successful results. The question arises in us how will Bulgaria be able to overcome the alarming statistics that in the last year we have again 8 thousand less born children? This fact is really worrying and without concrete measures we do not see how we will achieve results. I'm giving you special attention because I am convinced that this is a priority for you in your work. And in this regard, I want to understand: what is Bulgaria's approach to overcoming the demographic crisis, what specific measures do you propose to increase the number of live children in Bulgaria and what are your forecasts? Can you commit to changing the coefficient of natural growth in Bulgaria from negative to positive?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, regarding your question about the demographic crisis and, more precisely, the questions you have raised, I inform you of the following. Bulgaria faces numerous challenges in its economic, social and demographic development. This requires us to clearly set the priorities and to set out the objectives that we are aiming for. Economic growth and the favorable business environment in recent years in Bulgaria are prerequisites for achieving positive changes in demographic and social areas. The measures taken by the Bulgarian government to meet the demographic challenges have a complex and comprehensive nature and relate strategically to an adequate reform and adaptation of all sectoral policies and social systems to demographic changes. Demographic policy is aimed at the entire population of the Republic of Bulgaria. Politics is not only oriented towards raising birth rates, but accentuates on increasing the quality of human capital. The key strategic document in response to the demographic challenges is the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 Annual plans and annual reports shall be drawn up in the implementation of the demographic strategy. On 31 October 2018, the Council of Ministers adopted the 2017 Review to implement the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in Bulgaria 2012. As positive trends in 2017 can be noted: reduction of infant mortality, retention of the total fertility ratio at levels close to the average of the Member States of the European Union; increase of the expected average life expectancy [[the President signals that time has run out]] ; increasing the number of marriages concluded, reducing divorces; improving living standards and quality of life. The incomes of Bulgarian households continue to grow in 2018. The income from the salary forms more than 55% of the total income of households. This is the result of sustainable wage growth, high employment and record low unemployment. Data on household spending show a reduction in food costs in the overall cost structure for 2018, a reduction in the relative share of funds to meet basic vital needs is an indicator of improvement at the vital level. In 2017 and 2018, the average wage rose almost 10%. Accordingly, in 2017, the average salary reached BGN 1037. and in 2018 BGN 1135
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u96	Time, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u97	Yeah, sure. Due to the multi-directional impact of demographic processes in the preparation of annual plans and reports, the principle of taking an integrated approach with the participation of a wide range of institutions and organisations is respected. Solving demographic problems in the long term requires a sustainable mobilisation of all available resources and the use of all available tools in the country. Demographically, the reduction and ageing of the population emerged as a long-term social process for Bulgaria. Therefore, the response to this challenge should not just focus on a mechanical change of basic demographic indicators, but on the application of a specific approach and the development of integrated policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mrs. Taskova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you actually ended up with my question. You said: a specific approach should be applied. That is exactly what I am asking: what is this particular approach? Everything else you said about raising children, improving living standards, the food we feed them is exactly the same, but I want you and I expect as Deputy Prime Minister to disprove the thesis and statistics that we see in 50 years Bulgaria will be a territorial desert. Bulgaria is melting. So once again I will allow myself to ask you a specific question: what are your forecasts, can you commit yourself to changing the coefficient of natural growth in Bulgaria from negative to positive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. For the doppelganger, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, thank you for your question. Due to the highly integration and difficult reversible nature of demographic changes and trends in Bulgaria, like many other countries in the European Union, the official forecasts for population development in the coming decades are unfavorable. I would therefore like to stress that it is extremely important and we will strive to achieve a long-term political agreement to implement the measures that I have just spoken about to mitigate the negative demographic impacts on all spheres and areas of public life and to adequately address demographic changes in the 21st century. I would also like to present more concrete about what we are undertaking in order to make demographic policy more effective. The Council of Ministers commissioned the implementation of a serious project by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Institute for the Study of Population and Humanities on the topic of "Merki" for overcoming the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria. A representative sociological study and analysis were conducted and concrete measures were then proposed. By my order, I ordered the establishment of an expert working group with the participation of key experts from the departments and academic circles to get acquainted with the development of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and to propose policies and measures in the field of the three main processes that determine demographic development. The expert group has a very short period of time to prepare its proposals for more effective measures to implement the government's management programme in the demographic policy part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We should thank the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Ms. Mariana Nikolova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Desislava Atanasova on the implementation of projects under the Project "Energy renovation of Bulgarian homes" in Razgrad district. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, by mid-2019 it is expected to complete the renovation activities of all 2022 residential buildings in the country, which are financed under the National Energy Efficiency Programme of multifamily residential buildings. My question to you concerns the district of Razgrad, where I am elected, and it is: how many of the contracts concluded are in the territory of Razgrad and at what stage are the projects in the municipalities of the district? Will the Energy Efficiency Programme of multi-family residential buildings continue in order to make savings from the procedures already carried out? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, Order No 18 of 2 February 2015 of the Council of Ministers adopted the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings, the terms and conditions for granting grants under it, and the bodies responsible for its implementation were designated. The National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings is aimed at renovating residential buildings with the main objective of implementing energy efficiency measures to provide better living conditions for citizens in multi-family residential buildings, thermal comfort and higher quality of living environment. This programme is the largest initiative of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in the field of energy efficiency for the residential building fund. The programme is implemented with a financial resource of 2 billion. The most cost-effective package of energy saving measures for an approved building, which achieves a class of energy consumption in buildings is financed in accordance with Regulation No 7 of 2004 on energy efficiency, heat saving and energy saving in buildings. The scope of the National Programme is for the entire territory of the country within all 265 municipalities of all 2022 buildings approved under the Programme and contracts for targeted funding have been concluded. 22 buildings are included in the territory of Razgrad District, taking into account the two buildings transferred under the project "Energy upgrade" of the Bulgarian homes according to PMS No 23 of 4 February 2016, for which construction works were not implemented on 31 December 2015. The distribution of 22 approved buildings in the district by municipalities is as follows: the municipality of Zavet one building; the municipality of Isperih four buildings; the municipality of Kubrat four buildings; the municipality of Loznitsa three buildings, and the municipality of Razgrad 10 buildings. At present, the buildings by municipalities are at the following stages of implementation of their renovation activities: the buildings of the territories of the municipalities of the Covenant. One building, Isperih, Kubrat, Loznitsa Loznitsa are renovated and put into operation; the municipality of Razgrad of the 10 buildings, six of them are put into operation, and two buildings are in the process of implementing the construction works, for two buildings investment projects are being developed for their renovation. The value of the investments from the Programme of the completed, put into service buildings is 18 per district of Razgrad, which provides renovation of the buildings by municipalities is: the municipality of Testament 754 thousand. £661.; Isperih Municipality for four buildings 3 million 907 thousand. BGN 251.; Kubrat municipality for four buildings 2 million 618 thousand. £842.; Loznitsa Municipality for three buildings 2 million Seven hundred and 995 BGN, and Razgrad Municipality for six buildings 6 million Twenty-four thousand. BGN 686. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Shall I finish, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u106	Yeah, yeah, finish up. Just so you know, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u107	The estimated value of the investments for the four buildings in Razgrad Municipality, which are currently in the process of renovating two buildings in construction and two are made investment projects, is 3 million. 442,000. 100 leva. In this respect, it can be noted that the total financial resource for Razgrad region under the Programme is approximately 19 million. $450,000. lv. Its absorption and expenditure is monitored on an ongoing basis, and as of 1 March 2019, the registers supported by the MRRB reported 1657 renovated and put into operation buildings and 143 buildings were carried out the construction and installation works. After renovation of all buildings, a final analysis of the Programme will be carried out and the financial resources spent will be taken into account. Further support in implementing energy efficiency measures in multi-family residential buildings can be made under different funding rules and conditions, for which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works will inform in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u108	Thank you, Dear Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. It is extremely important to make savings. It is extremely important for this program to continue on whether in this volume and scale or in a slightly smaller one, but for all Bulgarian citizens it is clear that the program for energy renovation of Bulgarian homes is an opportunity to reduce the energy bills they pay and to upgrade their homes, respectively, and their price to be slightly different. I hope that with the completion of all 2022 buildings throughout the country, not only the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, but we, through our questions, will be able to debunk that fake news published before the beginning of this programme, that Bulgarian citizens will lose their homes, that Bulgarian citizens will have to pay for the energy renovation of their homes. I hope that we will have another opportunity to start a new programming period, because we are all aware that about 40,000 buildings across the country need such energy renovations. I wish you and your team every success in your hard work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u110	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Will there be a hole, Madam Secretary? No. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev about the construction of a four-track road between Burgas and the most visited Black Sea resort Sunny Beach. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, undoubtedly the entire infrastructure in the country is important, but there are also road sections that are of much greater intensity and which contribute accordingly to increasing the country's gross domestic product. My question is about such a road section, namely the construction of the four-track road between Burgas and the most visited Black Sea resort Sunny Beach, which is crucial for both the development of the area and the summer tourist product. In June 2018, the expansion of the road Burgas was opened and put into operation in the sections between Pomorie.. Aheloy and Aheloy's bypass. This has led to the relief of traffic, the reduction of road accidents and has had a positive impact on the development of tourism in the area. In order to complete the complete project of the four-band road between Burgas and Sunny Beach, it is necessary to build the tour of the town of Pomorie, which is the connecting section between the two that have already been built. There is a selected contractor company and funds voted by the Council of Ministers to secure this section. With its construction will be finalized one of the most important infrastructure projects in the area of Burgas. In this regard, I ask you the following question: when are construction activities expected to begin in the construction of the town of Pomorie? What are the deadlines for its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, the construction of the tour of the town of Pomorie is included in the program "New construction" of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the total value of the project is 20 million. 923 thousand. £664. The tour will pass west of the city at its periphery. The start of the section is from km 217 on road 1-9 before the town of Pomorie in the direction of Nessebar and the end is at the entry in road 1-9 to km 222+849 in the direction of Burgas. For the project there are contracts with selected performers. After public procurement, the construction and installation works will be carried out by the Department of Health and Health and Safety, Bulgaria, and the consulting service will be carried out by the Post-Consult 2000. To start the construction and installation works of the town of Pomorie it is necessary to complete the estrangement procedures. By decision of the Council of Ministers No 29 of 19 January 2018, alienations of properties and parts of property for state need for the construction of the tour took place last year. The number of private property affected is subject to compensation. The compensation is 153 and they are all located in the land of the town of Pomorie. Three complaints and objections against the amount of compensation granted were received at the Road Infrastructure Agency and more than 10 were reported by the Council of Ministers in the Supreme Administrative Court. Currently, the benefits for all properties are paid through the Regional Administration of Burgas, except for three to one owner. For them, there is a case that is pending a court ruling. Upon completion of the proceedings, the issuance of a building permit will be carried out and the actual work on the project will be started. Indicativeally, we can indicate as the beginning of construction activities in May this year, with the time limit for the execution of the contract being 12 months from the Protocol for the opening of the construction site. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency are taking into account the extreme importance of the Burgas Region Project, and not only for its residents, but also for all tourists and will make every effort for the quality and timely implementation of the site, which will meet the main objective of the Project............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u114	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Boychev, will you take an attitude? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we've learned that may be the first month to begin the construction of this section. Really, we all know how important it is. But I would like to point out the fact with the appeals, especially the last complaint, for which we are still waiting for the ruling of the Administrative Court, which, notice, I want to make it clear, as far as my information is concerned, is for BGN 400. This leads me to believe that there are other prerequisites for mourning these procedures, which respectively stop the construction of the road section of the infrastructure. It must be made clear that if it was not for this complaint or these complaints, two or three of them were prepared to start construction earlier, and by the beginning of this upcoming summer tourist season, we would really have a complete road section, which suggests, as you said, much less road traffic accidents with a fatal end and the development of the tourist industry, which is largely affected in our region. That's what I want to make clear! Thank you for your answer. We hope that the month of May will begin the actual construction and therefore we will have a complete section for the next tourist season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u116	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, would you like to use the possibility of a duvet? [[negative sign from Minister Petya Avramova.]] Thank you. The next question is from the MPs Plamen Manushev and Daniela Dimitrova. It is about the implementation of the project "Rehabilitation of the water supply pump station Malina to water tank 300 m3 "General Toshevo." Here you go, Mr. Admiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the implementation of the project "Rehabilitation of the water supply pump station Malina to a water tank 300 m3 city of General Toshevo." During the meetings held at the beginning of 2018 with the residents of the settlements of General Toshevo municipality, the main question that the residents there put was the depreciated water pipeline from the village of Lyulyakovo to the village of Malina, which led the villages for weeks, especially in summer, to be left without water. As a result of the discussions held with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which undertook to finance and rehabilitate this facility, for which I thank you, Madam Minister, and on behalf of the people living in these villages, a contract was signed at the beginning of October 2018 between the Municipality of General Toshevo and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works worth 257 thousand. BGN 504. improving the water supply from the villages of Lilakovo and Pizarovo. The amount of the budget of the Ministry was received after a series of meetings and a reasoned written request for the need to provide funds for improving the water infrastructure in the municipality. Also thanks that the water company in the town of Dobrich implemented the project. The aim of the targeted funding was the implementation of the project "Rehabilitation of the water pipeline between the village of Malina and the village of Lyuljakovo" with a total length of 7200 meters. A sum that is not so great, but for the people there, the issue is vital. In this regard, our question to you, Minister, is: at what stage is the implementation of the project; is the time limits set in the contract respected; what will be the effect of the implementation of the activities that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works finances? Thank you for having responded to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Manushev and Mrs. Dimitrova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2018 provides funds for the financing of the site "Rehabilitation of a water pipeline from the Pumping Station Malina to a watershed 300 m3 " General Toshevo" to provide normal water supply to the villages of Lyuljakovo and Pizarovo, General Toshevo municipality, Dobrich district. An agreement was signed in September 2018 between MRRB and the Municipality of General Toshevo for the purpose of financing of the project "Rehabilitation of a water supply from Pumping Station Malina to a water supply of 300 m3 city of General Toshevo" amounting to 257 504 BGN. By an additional agreement in December 2018, the name of the site was amended to the Rehabilitation of an area of 7020 linear meters long from a water supply from Pumping Station Malina to a water tank 300 m3 in the city of General Toshevo and the associated facilities to it. The Municipality of General Toshevo has concluded Contract No 353 from 1 October 2018 with With an advert No 79 of 7 November 2018, the award of the construction activities included in the subject-matter of the agreement was launched for the collection of tenders. At present, a committee appointed by order of the mayor of General Toshevo Municipality examines and evaluates the offers received, with the deadline for carrying out the work of the subsidiary body to the contracting entity being 22 April 2019. According to the provisions of the Agreement, the Municipality undertakes to provide copies of the contracts concluded for the implementation of the activities, each month prepares reports informing the Ministry of Implementation and, upon completion of the sites, provides certified copies of all verified and approved by the Municipality, proving the actual construction and works carried out on the premises, construction and copyright supervision, final reports of the construction supervision carried out, documents to be put into service, as well as technical passports of the sites. For the implementation of the activities financed under the Agreement, the Municipality shall assume full responsibility for the lawful, qualitative and temporary implementation of the sites in accordance with the regulations. In the event of failure to comply with the objectives of the project or detected violations of the target use of the funds provided by the Municipality, the Municipality shall recover the funds in full under the budget of the Ministry. If necessary, representatives of the Ministry designated by an order may also carry out on-the-spot checks on the implementation of the site. Currently, the villages of Pizarovo and Lyuljakovo in the municipality of General Toshevo and General Toshevo are supplied by two pump stations. During periods of increased water consumption by the inhabitants of the town of General Toshevo and the villages of Pizarovo and Lyuljakovo, mainly during the summer months, the quantities of water supplied are not enough to feed the population of the two villages and reach chronic shortages and deprivation of the population of water for long periods. After the implementation of the project an alternative water supply will be provided from Raspberry pump station for the villages of Pizarovo and Lyuljakovo, General Toshevo municipality, which will benefit both residents of the two villages 834 people and people with real estate. To conclude, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is taking the necessary and possible organisational measures and care so that citizens can be provided with a sustainable water service and will continue financing of water facilities and activities within the limits of the capital expenditure funds envisaged for this purpose, which are laid down in the budget of the Office for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u120	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There'll be a line here, Mr. Admiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, thank you for your detailed answer I am pleased that the matter is on the attention of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The project, as we understand it, goes within the specified deadlines and I hope that you will continue to monitor its quality and performance within the time limit. From what you have said in the end, I would like to ask you to engage and complete the project to replace the water network of Shabla city, this project to go into its real phase at least in my information it is quite advanced, and also the replacement of the water network in the villages of Branishte, Slaveevo and Batovo on the road Dobrich Albena, in connection with the rehabilitation of the road Dobrich Albena. With the implementation of these not so large projects will indeed prove very serious help to the population for its quality and regular supply of water, as especially on the Dobrich road, Albena, in these villages all the way has been dug up several meters in connection with the old water network; as well as the implementation of the big project in the town of Dobrich on replacement of the plumbing system and the pipes for 115 million it is also going. Please monitor the implementation of this project as well, since the question of water is vital in Dobrudja, as long as people who live on this earth are remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u122	Thank you. Madam Minister, you will not use the right to the back of your coat. The next question is from the MPs Boris Kirchev and Manoil Manev. It is about a project for the bypass of the town of Kazanlak after the tunnel under Shipka, providing a link on Republican road I-5 with Republican road I-6. Mr. Manev, you will develop the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, ladies and ministers! There is a lot of information about the future tunnel under Shipka this is a waiting and desired project of national importance, priority of several governments. An object that will ease the connection between North and South Bulgaria and which is part of the Trans-European Corridor No 9 Bucharest But in order for this tunnel to happen, it is extremely important that the approach to it is the bypass route of Gabrovo, fulfilling two main tasks: to take the traffic out of the city center and make an alternative, a faster connection to the future tunnel; also important is the bypass from the south after the tunnel to ensure the connection from the tunnel to the ring road of the town of Kazanlak. The road of Kazanlak will take all the traffic passing through the tunnel below Shipka peak without entering the city. Therefore, its construction activities are necessary and extremely important for the people of the region. Before the launch of the construction of the tunnel under Shipka in this connection, our question is as follows: at what stage is the project for the bypass of the town of Kazanlak after the tunnel under Shipka, providing the connection of Republican road I-5 with Republican road I-6? Is there a specific route chosen, alienation procedures and other preparation activities and subsequent construction of this road section? Finally, Madam Minister, one request: I ask you to answer this question highly because, as we know, the colleagues from the left side of the room are again gone, and I hope they will hear your answer, and hand it over to their voters in Kazanlak and in the region of Stara Zagora, because in the end it is extremely important for the people there.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Manev, dear Mr. Kirchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Republican Road I-5 "Trans-European Corridor No 9 in the direction of Danube Bridge Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo" Gabrovo "Shipka" "Stara Zagora" is one of the main corridors in the north-south direction, the dominant movement is heavy. The construction of a bypass of the town of Gabrovo and the tunnel under Shipka will attract part of the movement in the direction of I-5, which makes the construction of a bypass of the town of Kazanlak actual and will limit its passage through urbanized territory. With the construction of the bypass, the living environment of Kazanlak residents will be improved and the safety of motor vehicle movements in the city area will be increased. In 2014 a contract was concluded with the company The project was completed in 2015. In the process of the study were made an eastern and western version, which is conditioned by the location of the town of Kazanlak and the road infrastructure built so far. Through the city's features passes route I-5, and on the south side of the urbanised territory crosses road I-6. The Western bypass was supported by the Expert Tech-Economic Council of the Agency of Road Infrastructure and the Municipality of Kazanlak. The technical elements and the gauge that will be included in the project are the following: length of the route.. 3160 m, design speed. 90 km/h, road position........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The beginning is about 1.2 km north of the town of Kazanlak, where a road node type is provided for. The track is fully developing in a south-west direction. Two road nodes, seven large facilities, of which one train overpass and six underpasses are provided. The environmental impact assessment procedure has been conducted, which ended with a decision of RIEW "Stara Zagora," as of April 2015. The version of the Western bypass of the town of Kazanlak has been approved. The decision was not contested but entered into legal force, which was also the basis for the completion of the idea project and the development of a detailed development plan. The plot that affects properties in the territory of Kran, the village of Enina, Kazanlak and the village of Koprinka, Kazanlak municipality, Stara Zagora district is about to be implemented the procedures for establishing a route by the Commission for Agricultural Land at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Following the entry into force of the Decision, the project will be submitted for consideration and approval by an expert council to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. One month after the entry into force of the Order of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the adoption of an alienation act, a request will be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Next, the award of the estrangement act to the owners concerned. The technical project and the construction and installation works for the site are planned to be assigned to the project. Kazanlak is not included in the Agency's Investment Programme for 2019. The project will be provided after the estrangement procedure has been completed and funds will be provided for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u126	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Manev, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you on behalf of all the people in the Kazanlak region and where the route will pass. This information you gave here today, from the highest tribune in the Republic of Bulgaria, is now legal and any false news, comments and lies will not reach it. They can't be manipulated. Thank you for your accurate and comprehensive information, because this will calm these people down first. Secondly, it will be clear that the chronogram on which we are moving at the moment will not fall into any manipulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u128	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Will there be a duplicate, Madam Secretary? No. The answer was comprehensive. The next question is from the MP Ivan Mihovski on the construction of a new bridge over the river Beli Osam, Troyan, Lovech district. Here you go, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, my question to you is about the construction of a new bridge over the river Beli Osam 43 m long. The funds provide the Road Infrastructure Agency. A contract for choice of contractor has been announced. Construction of the bridge will redirect transit traffic from the city centre to its eastern edge. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. will be financed by the API budget under the New Construction Programme. In addition to the construction of the bridge it also envisions the construction of a road link between road II-35 Troyan "Lovech" and road III-357 "Troyan " Oreshak. At what stage is this project and when are construction activities envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Here you are, Mrs. Minister. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mihowski, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the realization of a road link between road II 35 and road III-357 in the town of Troyan from km 0 to km 0+154 and a new bridge facility over the river Beli Osam between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the municipality of Troyan in July 2017 an agreement was concluded, according to which the municipality's commitment is to prepare an investment project agreed with the interested institutions, carry out the procedures required by environmental legislation, preparation of a complex report on conformity assessment and conduct of alienation procedures. For its part, the Road Infrastructure Agency should carry out the construction of the site by providing financial construction works and construction supervision. In fulfilling its commitments, the Municipality of Troyan prepared a technical project for the site and carried out the necessary procedures for the field security of the site. In the period 2017 - 2018 the Agency conducted public procurement contracts for the selection of contractor of the construction and construction works of the construction supervision. A contract was signed on 14 June 2018. As a contractor of supervision, the company is ranked first by the company "Patconsult 2000" Ltd., which concluded the contract on 28 February 2019. A building permit has been issued by the Municipality of Troyan since 5 February 2019, which entered into force on 25 February 2019. A protocol will be signed for the submission of template 1 for the participants in the investment process of the technical project and the building permit, after which will be signed a model 2a protocol for the opening of a construction site. The project provides for the construction of a road link between road II-35 and road III-357 with a length of 154 m and a new bridge facility over the river Beli Osam 43.2 m. The gauge of the newly built facility is 16.5 m with two lanes for movement of 3.5 m in the direction of Beklemetto, one lane for movement of 3.5 m in the direction of Lovech and two pavements in the direction of 3 m. The project of the bridge includes a reconstruction of a section of road III-357, the approach to the facility, as well as rehabilitation of road II-35 within the intersection with the road connection. The funds for the realization of the site are provided by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and are worth 2 million. 320 thousand. 553 BGN. with VAT. These include the value of construction works and supervision, and the time limit for implementation of construction is 12 months from the date of signature of the template 2a protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u132	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mihowski, will you take a stand? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I sincerely hope that all those who are interested have listened carefully to you and will not be abused by a really important Trojan theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Mihowski. Will there be a hole? I won't. This was the last question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Welcome to Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice! The first question was asked by the MP Anna Alexandrova about the measures taken by the Ministry of Justice to counter the illegal hate speech. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The Framework Decision on the fight against racism and xenophobia qualifies as a crime the public incitement to violence or hatred directed against a group of persons or a member of a group designated in respect of race, skin colour, religion, origin, national or ethnicity. Statements instilling hatred, as defined in this framework decision, are also considered a crime when committed in online space. A recent European survey shows that 75% of people who monitor or participate in online debates have faced cases of abuse, threat or hate speech. Almost half of the respondents claimed that this prevented them from taking part in discussions online. The European Union and its Member States, together with companies in the field of social media and other platforms, share collective responsibility for promoting and facilitating freedom of speech in the online space. At the same time, all these actors are responsible for ensuring that the Internet does not become a beneficial environment for the spread of violence and hatred. The Commission has created a number of opportunities for dialogue with online platforms within the digital single market. e.g. the European Union Internet Forum, the Code of Conduct for Countering Illegal Statements Online Hate, the Memorandum of Understanding on the Selling of Counterfeited Goods on the Internet, and plans to coordinate them in a more effective way in order to ensure the best possible results. In this regard, it is also my question to you. On 7 and 8 March, the Justice and Home Affairs Council took place in Brussels within the framework of the Romanian Presidency, to which the Commission has provided the ministers of justice with information on hate speech, Code of Conduct, Monitoring and Implementation in the Member States. What actions are being taken by the Ministry of Justice to counter illegal hate speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, in fact in recent years there has been an alarming increase in the incidents in which the committing of a crime was caused by the so-called hate language. Such behaviour affects not only the individual, the individual, but also the democratic society as a whole and, naturally, affects the adopted European values, fundamental rights, such as the right to equality and non-discrimination. Crimes caused by hate speech constitute actions by which the perpetrator sends a message not only to the individual, to the victim, but also to other members of society as a whole, so as to signal that the victim, or victims, are not welcome and do not belong to society. Thus, crimes motivated by prejudice have the potential to threaten public order and security by creating tension between different groups, which can lead to interethnic and social confrontation. This problem has been on the attention of the Justice Council of the European Commission since 2016. We are regularly informed by the European Commission, Commissioner Joorova, about what policies have been undertaken at European level. This was also the concrete commentary of Commissioner Joorova during the recently held Justice Council on 8 March 2019 in Brussels. She presented the results of the fourth monitoring of the Code of Conduct on countering illegal hate speech online. It represents an agreement reached between the European Commission and the major IT companies "Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Microsoft." By signing the Code of Conduct, IT companies are primarily obliged to monitor and have a commitment to have clear and effective procedures to review the notifications of hate speech in the online services they provide and to consider in accordance with the company's established rules given at EU level guidelines. Where is Bulgaria and our legislation, as you specifically asked me the question? We have two changes back in the time of the Criminal Code, where texts such as criminal compositions have been commented and introduced in the implementation of the general principles of European legislation. However, in view of the new trends, we have taken action at the end of 2018, when, on the occasion of strengthening the fight against anti-Semitism, this is also a subject which is very closely monitored by the ministers of justice at European Union level, we regularly inform ourselves of similar manifestations of our formal councils, so at the end of 2018, in the Ministry of Justice, the preparation of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, which proposes the conduct of acts of racist or xenophobic motives, as well as of hooligan reasons, to be raised as a qualified sign in a number and now existing criminal groups in the Penal Code, for example in art. Art. 142, Art. 142a of the Penal Code, forced under art. 143 of the Penal Code, the indictment of crime or persecution art. Art. 144, Art. 114a of the Penal Code. Our work in the working group on these changes continues. I hope that they will soon be provided to you so that we can have the relevant legislative initiative and legislation adopted by the legislative body.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u138	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Alexandrova, will you take the answer? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. It became clear that the Ministry of Justice is also working on this particular case. I would like to say that as a Member of the National Assembly, I am responsible and ready, when the working group is finished, to assist in the best way this bill is to be adopted in the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Madam Secretary? Thank you for your correctness. The next issue is from the National Representative Maria Ilieva and is on the results achieved in implementing the recommendations of the Report of the European Commission on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mrs. Tsacheva, dear colleagues! With Bulgaria's accession to the European Union on 1 January 2007, the European Commission established a Cooperation and Verification Mechanism to assess the progress made by Bulgaria in the area of judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime. Since 2007, the Commission has regularly reported progress in these areas in written reports to the European Parliament and to the Council. The reports shall contribute to contacts with both Member States and civil society and international organisations, independent experts and various other sources from which information is also received. Ten years after the introduction of this mechanism in January 2017, a review of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and a report was carried out in which the Commission made 17 recommendations which, if implemented by the Republic of Bulgaria, could be considered sufficient to complete the Mechanism, unless other changes lead to a clear reversal in the progress. This report also stressed that the speed of the process will depend on how quickly Bulgaria will be able to implement the recommendations irreversibly. The first assessment of progress on the 17 recommendations was made in November 2017, and the Commission was not yet able to conclude that the indicators were met satisfactorily. In the 12 months following this report, Bulgaria continued to make efforts to implement the recommendations and these efforts were taken into account in the latest report covering the period from 2017 until now, namely in the November 2018 report. The Commission notes that several recommendations have already been implemented and a number of others are very close to the implementation phase. On this basis, three of the six indicators of the independence of the judiciary, the legislative framework and organised crime can be considered suspended. This week, here is the European Commission mission to inform how the other indicators are going, and my question to you is: what results have you obtained from the competence of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, thank you for the precise and chronologically historical monitoring of the functioning of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism by the European Commission. I would like to say that, even after the progress report of November last year, published by the European Commission and submitted to the European Parliament, the determination of the responsible institutions to achieve irreversibility in the reform of the judiciary and the fight against organised crime and corruption has continued. The government of the Republic of Bulgaria remains determined to take the necessary steps guaranteeing the rule of law in the country, and it remains at maximum reduced time. In this sense, I also stated our emphasis during the European Commission Mission. As you rightly said, it took place this week, where, in concrete terms, the representatives of the Commission had the opportunity to meet the different types of institutions responsible for this mechanism. The Commission's conclusion is that Bulgaria has made significant progress in general and, as you know from the Report, in terms of indicator one: We have informed that this indicator continues the work under the Support Office for Structural Reforms of the European Commission to strengthen the capacity of the Inspectorate. We are already at the stage of signing a contract for a project on which, as a result of European solidarity, we are receiving funds to strengthen the capacity of the Inspectorate. As regards the second indicator, the Commission's November report states that this indicator is also conditionally closed, taking into account the changes made to the Criminal Procedure Code at the end of 2017, as well as the submitted draft amending and supplementing the Criminal Code by the Council of Ministers, following the instructions of the Criminalisation Commission and of criminal groups in relation to the private sector. The Commission has positively assessed the fact that a public debate has been conducted, consultations with relevant stakeholders in the judiciary and civil society. The draft amendment and supplement bill is to be seen in the Bulgarian Parliament. Third indicator: "Extreme judicial reform." Further steps have been taken to implement the four recommendations contained within the third indicator. However, these initiatives are still to be finalised and the projects launched are to be completed. Who are they? First of all, there is a mechanism in the Ministry of Justice for regular reporting of the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, which has been positively assessed by the Commission. The Supreme Judicial Council implements projects for the introduction of a system for regulating the workload of magistrates and optimization of the judicial card and the development of a single information system of courts, which is due to be completed by the end of 2019. Changes to the GPC on the rules of local and generic jurisdiction have been implemented, which is related to overcoming the recommendation for uneven workload between different courts and even more in terms of uniform courts, depending on where they are geographically located. Reforms have been initiated in the field of e-Justice, as a measure to deal with uneven workload, one of which is reforming the orders procedure under the GPC by establishing a system for centralized electronic processing of orders, together with the Support Office for Structural Reforms. With regard to the fourth indicator, the new Anti-Corruption Act was adopted on 23 January last year, which is positively reported and shared by the partners of the European Commission. Date of birth: (a) Approximately 1960, (b) 1 January 1967, (c) Approximately 1966. In October, amendments to the Law on Administration were adopted. The new regulation on the basis of this law increased the number of inspectors to the ministries under the leadership of the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers. This is also very positive from our partners. Fifth indicator: More general corruption, including local and border corruption. It is reported that Bulgaria has taken steps as a whole. On the basis of the steps taken, action should continue in 2018. The implementation of focused measures in the area with increased corruption risk, as well as the horizontal measures in the field of training, prevention, law enforcement, including in the Ministry of Interior. The implementation of the measures is monitored by the National Anti-Corruption Policy Council of the Council of Ministers. On 7 March this year, the last meeting was held to take account of the progress and implementation of the Strategy. According to the sixth indicator: The report of the Commission in November stated that Bulgaria has taken steps in general to implement this indicator and the sixth indicator is the third one which is considered to be conditionally closed. I must say that these are not one-off actions, and although there is a conditional closure or other recommendations, which have a permanent term of execution, such as the Transparent choice of administrative heads of courts and other structures in the judiciary, we are definitely determined by the summer June-July month, to carry out the Commission's oral report. Thus, with the September month horizon when these measures are being completed, to have the Commission's really shared expectation and opportunity to complete the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism with regard to the European Commission towards Bulgaria. Thank you and I apologize for your time, but things are really very important and thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The subject deserves another question and consideration in another format, so we violated the regulation. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. On the one hand, I thank you for making efforts so that these recommendations can be really implemented and also for reporting on the implementation of the recommendations in due time. Because with the reporting in a transparent way by the Bulgarian authorities, civil and public control will have an important role to play in the transition of the Monitoring at internal national level on the one hand. On the other hand, to ensure the necessary guarantees that we will continue to follow this path of progress and reforms. As a Member of the National Assembly, I can assure you that the National Assembly will also continue to fulfil its commitments within the framework of its powers to update the legal framework, so that, with joint efforts, with the efforts of all institutions, we can really succeed in fulfilling all the recommendations given to us as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Here you are, Madam Secretary. Here you are, dear Minister Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, I would like to clarify the discussion we were having because this was indeed a discussion with the representatives of the Mission. They asked us a question: what is happening with the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform, as well as with the National Anti-Corruption Policy Strategy? They're both on the 2020 horizon. We are already thinking and I have set up a working group, and I can say the same with regard to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Zaharieva, who is responsible for the Anticorruption Strategy, for continuing because, as I said in my reply just now, this is not a one-time act. It cannot be considered that, with the implementation of the specific strategic and basic objectives of both strategies, the commitment of the state and our work as a whole on these policies ends. So in advance, although still at the beginning of 2019, we are looking for solutions to the continuation of not these strategies, but for the acts with which they will be replaced after their expiry date. You rightly said that this is a permanent commitment, and as I regularly report to the Legal Committee on this matter, thank you for having been able to introduce the broad audience of the National Assembly through your question to the steps we are taking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u148	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We thank you for the thorough answers to these important questions. The process is dynamic and is likely to be new questions, questioning, and a hearing most likely on the subject. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. The next questions are to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. The first one is from the MP Polina Tsankova-Hristova. It is an interesting and painful issue related to the mental and physical health of the children of Bulgaria. It refers to the overuse of energy drinks of children in Bulgaria. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Data from the national representative study on the nutrition of students in Bulgaria since 2010 show adverse characteristics in the feeding of children, with 10% of the studied children consume once or more times a day energy drinks and 20% of the Bulgarian children drink five or more energy drinks per week. That's the official data from over ten years ago. What's happening right now? According to unofficial data, each student drinks more than one of these drinks a day. According to experts, children do not realize the harm of their frequent consumption, I would even say that they feel refreshed and open. And if their use is acceptable for adults, then for children who often reach for these drinks there are serious health risks. Experts are convinced that due to the high content of caffeine, taurine and sugar, regular consumption of energy drinks from adolescents clearly leads to increased irritability, increased anxiety, nervousness, headache, insomnia, palpitations, respiratory disorders, dehydration, liver and kidney damage, overweight, hyperactivity. I took the liberty of listing all the negative consequences identified for children's health because they are many and are serious enough to pay attention to the parents and the state institutions. Experts assume that the consumption of energy drinks is one of the possible causes of child aggression in schools. This fact is extremely worrying as there is a tendency to replace or reduce water consumption with increased energy drinks. These drinks are not allowed for sale in schools, but it turns out that in almost all retail outlets in close proximity can freely be purchased from students. We have also seen evidence of this in several media reports, made with hidden cameras, in which a unit of traders showed conscience and refused to sell stimulating drinks to children. My questions to you are as follows: is there an up-to-date study of the students' nutrition, and if so, what are the conclusions of it? What measures have been taken to limit the use of energy drinks by children in Bulgaria? What are the regulatory measures in the other Member States of the European Union, besides putting a warning label on the label of energy drinks with the recommendation not to be consumed by children, pregnant women and caffeine sensitive people? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hristova, energy drinks are products containing different combinations and quantities of caffeine, vitamins from the group, plant extracts, biologically active substances and others. These drinks are developed as functional to support mental and physical activity to reduce signs of fatigue. According to the opinion of the European Food Safety Authority, once daily consumption of energy drinks is considered as no health risk. When consumption of two or more drinks per day due to increased consumption of caffeine in combination with other ingredients with stimulating effect, an adverse effect on the body is possible.. increased anxiety, anxiety,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Children are the riskier group due to adverse effects of caffeine at much lower doses than adults. With regard to the specific questions you have raised. On the first question: is there a study of the nutrition of the students after 2010 and, if so, what are the conclusions of them? A national study of the health risk factors for the population of the Republic of Bulgaria took place in 2014. Students from all age groups have been studied for each of the 28 districts. A total of 683 students were examined by an inquiry on the frequency of food and drink consumption, including energy drinks. The results of the study show that 22.2% of all students studied consume energy drinks, but the highest is the relative share of those consumed in the age group 14 - 18 years and represents 49.3%. Students aged 10 to 13 years who consume energy drinks are 16.3% and children aged between 7 and 10 are only 1.9%. The most risky group are students aged 14 years, in whom with moderate chronic consumption the consumption of energy drinks from one to four times a week is 27.7% of those studied and with high chronic consumption the intake of more than one such energy drink every day is 18.7%. The European Food Safety Authority published an opinion in 2013, according to which in the countries of the European Union with the highest proportion of consumption of energy drinks On your second question: what measures have been taken to limit the use of energy drinks by children in Bulgaria? The Ministry of Health applies Regulation No 37 on a healthy diet for students. The same does not allow the supply of energy drinks in student chairs, buffets, pavilions and vending machines on the territory of schools, dormitories, recreation and tourism facilities for students and specialized institutions for providing social services for children and social educational and professional centers. As a member of the European Union, Bulgaria also applies the European requirements on labelling and presentation of food to consumers. The requirements on this issue are set out in Regulation (EU) No 1169 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food information to consumers and Regulation on labelling and presentation requirements for food as of 2014. According to these two drinks containing caffeine, regardless of its source, in a quantity greater than 150 milligrams per litre, the label of a warning of high caffeine content is required. It is not recommended for children, pregnant women or In the same field of vision containing the name of the drink, the caffeine content indicated in brackets, expressed in milligrams in 100 milliliters. Your third question: what are the regulatory measures in other Member States of the European Union other than putting a warning label on the label of energy drinks with the recommendation not to be consumed by children, pregnant women and people sensitive to caffeine? There is no specific legislation for energy drinks at European level. However, all horizontal legal provisions applicable in general to all food at European Union level shall also apply to energy drinks. In the national legislation of some Member States, there are specific requirements relating mainly to the content of energy drinks and, more precisely, to the maximum limits, to some of the ingredients in them. Several countries have set maximum limits for the use of caffeine in energy drinks, Germany, Denmark, Austria and Switzerland. They are defined by a national regulation normally in the relevant Food Act. In Germany, the so-called German Fruit Juice Regulation introduced maximum limits for typical ingredients of energy drinks: 320 milligrams per litre for caffeine, 4000 milligrams per litre for taurine, 200 milligrams per litre for inositol, 2400 milligrams per litre for glucronolactone. These values are set to ensure safe consumption. The levels set in Germany are accepted both in the Austrian Code and in the Swiss regulation on soft drinks. The same maximum limits shall apply in Denmark. The Swedish National Food Authority and the Norwegian Food Safety Authority in reports dated December 2018 and February 2019 recommend the introduction of a maximum limit for caffeine content of 32 milligrams per 100 ml of energy drinks. Age restrictions apply only in Latvia from 2014 and Lithuania from 2016, where the sale of energy drinks to children up to 16 years of age is prohibited. The Scientific and Technology Committee in England considers that there is insufficient scientific evidence to prohibit the sale of energy drinks to children. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The German Government has systematically rejected initiatives to support the introduction of age bans on energy drinks, since it considers that the legislation in force and the implementation of information campaigns to raise awareness of young people about the responsible consumption of food and beverages containing caffeine are appropriate and sufficiently effective measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Your response, interesting and cognitive was comprehensive. I couldn't help explaining the length of time that way. Mrs. Christova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I, too, thank you for your comprehensive answer, which pleases me greatly. However, I hope that you and the Ministry of Health will help with a larger and wider public debate on the risks of the consumption of this type of stimulating beverages by children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. Mr. Secretary? Everything is said, the problem is indicated. The next question is from the National Representative Daniela Dimitrova and it is about the renewal of emergency medical care on the territory of Dobrich district of the Project for modernization of emergency medical care. Here you are, Mrs. Dimitrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about, as the leading one read, updating the emergency medical care base on the territory of Dobrich District under the Emergency Medical Modernization Project. Dear Minister, in December 2018, the European Commission, in an unprecedented way, without remarks and further questions, approved the Emergency Medical Modernization Project, which is the largest infrastructure project in the field of health for the current programming period 2014-2020. It is this project that is widely relied on to improve the quality and accessibility of healthcare in Bulgaria. It is visual evidence of the practical benefit of cohesion policy as a means of providing better protection for our citizens. Dobrich District, as we all know, is a border area. On its territory operates the Emergency Medical Center with affiliates in Balchik, Kavarna, Tervel, Shabla and General Toshevo. The remoteness of some of the municipalities from the district centre is one of the serious problems in the care of patients, especially with the depreciated car park. In this regard, my question to you is: what activities does the project plan to be implemented in the territory of Dobrich district? Will the buildings of the emergency medical centers and its affiliates be renovated? Will new ambulances be provided and how many, including high-passable ones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Dimitrova! In answer to your question, I would like to inform you of the following. In connection with the implementation of the large investment project. "BG 16 RFOP 001-4 001 0001" "Support for the development of the emergency medical care system", funded by Operational Programme "Regions in growth" 2014 - 2020 will be implemented, the following activities will be carried out, concerning the sites of the emergency medical care system in the Dobrich district: The Centre for Emergency Medical Care Dobrich.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For all sites of the emergency medical care system in the implementation of the project, it is envisaged to purchase new medical equipment and purchase new technological furniture, i.e. the offices will be updated with new equipment and new equipment. By means of the Project 400 new medical vehicles will be purchased.. ambulances, as specifically for the facilities of the emergency medical care system on the territory of Dobrich district are provided for the purchase of 10 ambulances, of which one ambulance with 4x4 drive. The very distribution of these ambulances will be based on the teams operating in these centers and affiliates I've been talking about and the state of the ambulances concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, on my behalf and on behalf of all citizens of Dobrich County, thank you. The answer was comprehensive and very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-15.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Minister, this concludes your participation in today's parliamentary control. In view of the advanced time, it remains to give the written answers received on questions from MPs, and the questions provided for today's program by the MPs Radostin Tanev, Krastina Taskova and Ivan Valkov will remain for the next days devoted to parliamentary control. Written response from: - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova; - by the Minister of Regional Development Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Elhan Kulkov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Alexander Simov, Nona Yotova and Elena Yoncheva; - by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. That concludes Parliament's weekly agenda. The next regular meeting is on 20 March 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
