ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Let's celebrate our holiday and thank our men for the many congratulations we have received. Isn't that right, ladies? Let's thank them! [[Applause.]] There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we begin with the first item of today's agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR VEROIZATIONS. Then we will move on to the second point of the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules. Colleagues, the hearing of the Minister of Environment and Water on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the progress in improving the quality of the air in Bulgaria I propose to start at 11.00, for which we should vote. Vote 147 MPs: for 146, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The National Assembly has received: Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 January 24 February 2019 and Protocol No 8 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 27 February 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, who's gonna introduce us to the report? Go ahead, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u2	Madam President, I have several procedures and they are necessary. First of all, yesterday the Commission of Religion examined the Bill at 15.00. According to our Rules, there is a requirement not to enter for consideration bills in plenary if at least 24 hours have not passed. Secondly, the Minister of Finance was supposed to be here, which should be the main person in charge of the payment of money in favour of the state treasury. How is it that without the minister of finance who hasn't given his opinion, we look at this bill, which is a precedent?! From now on, there is an opportunity for anyone who can ask for such forgiveness because in 1956 such a thing happened a year after I was born. Then the comrades decided to simplify the claims of natural persons, the obligations of natural persons arising from taxes, because in the years after 9 September they imposed such taxes to make senseless the right to property and people to give up ownership, but with the April plenary 1956 it was accepted. Let's calm down a little bit! And then the year 2011 that we were here in this room...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u3	The procedure, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u4	...we did something similar with regard to the obligations of mothers who received wrongful child benefits. And now the third case. So here comes the Minister of Finance to say his opinion on this crucial, I would say, a very important financial issue...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u5	I get it, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u6	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u7	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u8	...sorry, I could have taken them for two minutes all these requests, because each one represents a separate consideration of myself. The Committee on Budget and Finance was supposed to be the lead here because it was about the remission of state claims, not even the Commission on Religions. I don't know why that question was pushed into the Faith Commission as a leader? The Budget and Finance Committee has not spoken, she has said nothing, she has not been consulted at all. And one more thing. Not Mrs. Ninova outside, op to talk nonsense about terror about national security, but to come here the BSP parliamentary group, to enter into its duties and participate in rejecting this madness that lies ahead for us today. Don't let Mrs. Ninova talk about deals. Let him come! If there are deals, tell them what they are and prove them. We would also point out in this direction, we would support it. I also have such doubts to see whether it is or not! I'm formally making two suggestions. One is to postpone today's view of the Bill. Things are pretty rough. There is also no debate in society on this issue. I've been burning fire for two or three days, and there's smoke, and yesterday the fire broke out, and today we're putting it in plenary...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u9	Mr. Shopov, please, you've exceeded the time of the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u10	Yeah, that's why it's my formal proposal. If it is not accepted, the review of the Bill should be postponed and the Minister of Finance should be called in to obtain a little of an authentic opinion, opinion and position from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Regarding why we are viewing it today, we had a Presidency Council on which we decided that, despite the fact that the Commission is on Thursday, Friday will be seen as the first point, and this was a consensus decision of the Conference of Presidents. I see that the meeting of the Commission was attended by Deputy Minister of Finance Rositsa Velkova. I will invite the Minister of Finance to come to plenary, and I will put to the vote your motion to postpone the point. Please vote on the procedure Mr. Shopov has made to postpone the point. They voted 134 MPs: 27, against 25, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Alexieva, we'll continue reading the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Religions Act, No 954-01-4, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi on 31 January 2019. At a meeting held on 7 March 2019 the Committee on Religions and Human Rights discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 954 01 4, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi on 31 January 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister, Diana Dragneva Director of the Department of Law and Galina Dimitrova State Expert in the Department of Law and the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church (BSC) The Varna and Veliko Preslavski Metropolitan John, the Nevrokopski Metropolitan Seraphim, the Melnik Bishop Gerasim. Secretary-General of the Holy Synod, and Docent Maria Koseva. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi was presented by the MP Yordan Tsonev. The Law aims to refine certain provisions of the Law in the following guidelines: - as regards the possibility of granting a state subsidy to the overseas earchies of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church...................... the Bulgarian Patriarchate and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church abroad, and not only the Epiarchies and Metropolitans in Diocese and the jurisdiction of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church; - as regards the maximum amounts of the basic monthly salaries of the ministers and employees of the religious institutions, the commitment to the average monthly salary of employees in employment and employment in economic activity is specified by the data of the National Statistical Institute; - to ensure the implementation of the recent amendments to the Law, which entered into force after the adoption of the State Budget Act, is proposed in § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law of the Council of Ministers to determine for 2019 state subsidies for the Eastern Orthodox and Muslim religion, distributed to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Patriarchate, and to the Muslim Religion; - to meet the objectives of financing through a target subsidy for the current costs of faiths, an amnesty of their unpaid public obligations shall be provided until 31 December 2018. Mr. Tsonev stressed that the act of remission is a matter of state financial policy, does not affect religious rights and does not harm any religion. On the bill were received opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Muslim Confession, the Catholic Church, the Muslim Sunefitian Confession and the Coalition for Freedom of Faith and Speech. In its opinion, the Ministry of Justice points out that there are no proposals under the Bill, and that of the Ministry of Finance draws attention to the need for editorial corrections in respect of § 4 of the Bill. Some of the opinions of religions disagree with the proposed changes, while others point to principled support. The representatives of the ministries who attended the meeting supported the initial opinions provided. Varna and Veliko Preslav Metropolitan John noted that due to the in-depth interest concerning the proposals for a general remission of certain obligations of religion, the BCC had no similar and did not see the need for such an act to be taken towards it. Along with his thanks regarding the work on the bills, he stressed that the BCC has issues on which it will give its opinions. The representative of the Muslim Sunni Hanefite confession expressed concerns about the remission of public liabilities, as this would set a serious precedent. The forgiveness of public claims of a creed would constitute direct State aid and the Bulgarian state would enter into an extremely serious colony. In conclusion, he identified the proposed change to indicate a specific beneficiary of the subsidy as unconstitutional. The representative of the United pagan Religions pointed out that he did not see the need for the conversion into the Religions Act of a particular religion as a specific beneficiary of a subsidy. The representative of the United Evangelical Church expressed his concern about the lack of guarantees for the independence of religion and that the proposed amendments violate the basic principle of justice. During the discussion took part the MPs Krasimir Velchev and Pavel Shopov. People's representative Pavel Shopov expressed concerns about the proposal concerning the remission of obligations which were not refined in size and feathers and it is not clear how this would affect the system of legal rules. The President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights Krasimir Velchev said that it is necessary to extend the period between the first and second votes in order to enable all Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 8 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition and 1 vote in abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Religion Act, No 954-01-4, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi on 31 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u13	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Mr. Tsonev, will you brief us on the motives?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! The reasons for the proposed bill were very thoroughly read in the Commission Report and also in the discussion in the Commission was also about these motives. I will read them as given by the importers. The proposed amendments to the Law on Religions are intended to specify certain provisions in the Law in the following guidelines: - as regards the possibility of granting a state subsidy to the overseas earchies of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church...................... the Bulgarian Patriarchate and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church abroad.......................................................... - regarding the maximum amounts of the basic monthly salaries of the ministers and employees of the religious institutions..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... To ensure the implementation this year of the amendments to the Law, which have entered into force after the adoption of the current law on the state budget, and given the funds already set for the state subsidy for the faiths in it, it is proposed to specify in § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Powers of the Council of Ministers, providing for 2019 the government to determine state subsidies for the Eastern Orthodox and Muslim religion allocated to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Patriarchate, and the Muslim Religion. To meet the objectives of funding through a target subsidy for the current costs of faiths, amnesty of unpaid public liabilities is envisaged until 31 December 2018 and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry, but again we from the United Patriarchs have to throw a stone clearly into an association that has formed today, for another dishonor in the Bulgarian Parliament, for another unprincipled unprincipledness that can lead to very unpleasant consequences. I wonder: why do you need all this from GERB? What will you achieve with something that you do, but has not happened almost in Bulgarian legislation? Earlier in the procedure, I presented two cases, two precedents, one from 1956, the other from 2011. This will be the third one. One such law is unconstitutional, first by an act of the National Assembly to forgive such claims as these. These claims have not been properly established, by the way. Both in the Commission and in our distributed materials it did not become clear what they were on feathers, exactly what their origins were. I have endeavored to clarify for myself that the vast majority of these claims are the money owed to the state for judicial fees for those cases which the Mufti conducts a few years ago. You remember that during the management of the DPS and BSP, their last joint government, the DPS were forced by a heavy agalactic, or, more precisely, by Tuna Villaet's management syndrome and allowed themselves to pressure the Bulgarian judiciary, the Bulgarian courts with those 70 cases, from which we all went mad around the country, but ultimately the Bulgarian society proved to be at a level, even more the Bulgarian judiciary, and the claims were rejected. So the vast majority of this money is on this occasion. And now that we're rehabilitating the Main Mufti, understand the DPS, because it's the same thing, well, to put it mildly, untenable. There are other aspects here. The fact that, according to the Accession Treaty for our entry into the European Union, it is purely state aid, because one of the points there is that So this can't be about BDZ, it can't be about obligations related to people's pensions, with people's salaries, but with regard to DPS, understand the Main Mufti, it can! Here will also jump some of your friends and Meglena Kuneva, and Solomon Passy, and all Euro-Atlantics, Euro- and Brussels-Burcrats. They'll be absolutely right. I don't care what Brussels says, but here we will be subjected to these blows, and for good reason. Not that we're going to be writing eurobonds and Euro-reports, we're not going to do it, even though some Patriots did it three or four months ago. We from "Attack" will not at least do it, but we will find someone to refer to the relevant institutions in the relevant place and you will see how much trouble the state will have in this regard. Because it's a parexelance, without any doubt and without any hesitation. The scary thing is that the case is becoming a precedent. From now on everyone will want, everyone will make out, everyone will have the right to claim such forgiveness, and such forgiveness, as I have told you, in the history of the last 70 years has been done twice. And now again on this occasion. Here I address BSPs who are not here, but I hope they have scouts in the National Assembly and monitor what is going on here. This is not to talk outside bullshit about a danger to national security, and now you are dying of pleasure to see here the mistake your political enemy will make in the face of GERB. This is about responsibility for responsibility for society, responsibility for being a Member of the National Assembly, being in your place and voting. This is one of the two subjects. The other theme, the other big problem here is the discharge that is asked with this bill, the so-called Mufti, in fact, what to call it, to call it popular, understandable, of the DPS. This is also about another legal entity, so I have decided not to make a mistake: the Muslim Sunni Hanefite religion to which the huge number of Muslims in Bulgaria have determined themselves [[(a line from the MP Mustafa Karadaye: Tell me who, how much!]] , which is the authentic legal person to whom the money under the state subsidy for wages must be transferred. Here is actually the other big conflict, the other big problem. What's happening today in plenary is very similar to that kiss on Eagle Bridge. If a few years ago, we remember, it took place on the Eagle Bridge, today, let's not be so dramatic, something less happens in this Chamber. Comrades from GERB, are you looking for new allies? I don't know, maybe you don't need them because the Bulgarian political practice has actually shown that he who has played with VAT [[Radio, MRF laughs]] With DPS, yes, it is something similar, very soon finished the course and left the political scene. It's the wrong language, but it looks too much like exactly what you laughed about. From now on, I plead and condemn what is evidently going to happen today to BSP to stop demagogy because if they were in this room, today would be resisting this attempt to do what is to come. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the second time in two months we have seen the Law on Religions. Both times, the scenario is about the same. The meeting of the Committee on Religions and then early viewing in the Chamber, without waiting 24 hours, which are required by our Rules, without being made public in the debate and without having the opportunity of the Members of the National Assembly to get acquainted in detail with the stenogram and the opinions of the religions and of all participants in the process respectively. The next change, and perhaps even in this change between first and second reading, I suggest we supplement the name of the Law and call it the Law of Religion in favour of the Main Mufti. I think that this will be a good illustration of what is being done today in the Chamber, something that has been decided in the previous sitting. I would like to remind you that the previous rather large-scale change of the Law on Religions was initiated by us, the Patriots, and then followed another bill from BSP, GERB and DPS. This other bill turned out to be the main one that was adopted, but even there were the main texts that led us to this change, namely the ban on external financing, which would guarantee national security, fell away. Then Mrs. Ninova and everyone here on the left silently pressed the green buttons. These texts that we are looking at today, which were part of that law, would have been adopted even then, if it hadn't been for us, the Patriots, with our activity and with the way we put things. I'm solidarizing myself here with Mr. Shopov's opinion. Today, if the BSP were in the Chamber, the debate would be different and the possibility that these changes would pass would be quite different. We have two parts of the Bill. One of them is purely technical, which we don't mind. However, the second, which creates once again privileges for the General Mufti, cannot be accepted, and all of us from "United Patriarchs" will vote against this bill. We cannot introduce the assumption that every Muslim is essentially a supporter of the Main Mufti. Muslims are both Shiite and Alevis and various other denominations, and this summarizing name is a Muslim under which they are counted, there is no way we can glue it to the Main Mufti and they can draw from this line. Let us also recall that they draw the rights in full, that is, ten leva to everyone who has declared that they are Muslim, will receive them in the Main Mufti, and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church will receive only one third of what is due to be something against which we, the Patriots, again recall that we have objected seriously. But this thing Mrs. Ninova and her BSP colleagues supported it in the Chamber at the time. And, indeed, the second scandalous part is the remission of obligations. Guys, that's not how you do it. If this religion, to which we give in full the subsidy that is due, that is, it receives the most of all faiths, has obligations to the state, well, there are legitimate methods to reschedule them, to serve them in time. We guarantee them 5 million every year revenue. To be as good, to deprive themselves of some of that money and return it to the state as everyone else has paid their debts. After all, much of this money, as far as we know, because this information, of course, is hiding, is insurance. The employees of the Chief Mufti will receive pensions, which we will now claim because they did not have the valor and do not have the valor to pay their contributions to these employees. I call on all colleagues from GERB to reconsider the support of this bill. It is harmful and creates a double standard, creates a feeling that a religion in Bulgaria is favored and ultimately opposes Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, we are placed in a situation for the National Assembly to be racketed by a parliamentary group, in this case the DPS group. Once again, the National Assembly must be brought to its knees. Bulgaria must be brought to its knees in violation of the laws, contrary to the most elementary logic and norms. Why is that necessary? Let us consider this matter. First of all, the 8 million in question are fully within the capabilities of the DPS and the circles of companies to secure them and pay for them. Let us not forget that in the past 30 years of Bulgaria's latest history, the party that most cashed its presence in politics was DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u21	Is this your understanding of politics?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u22	This was also announced by their Honorary President Ahmed Dogan, who openly told the entire state in a TV show explained the scheme of hoops by companies around each party. In this case, however, he spoke of his party. [[Descriptions from DPS: "On the topic! "]] The same Ahmed Dogan who took in a million and a half because he had extremely serious hydrotechnical knowledge could have separated something from that money now to cover that 8 million. The same one that acquired TPP Varna for 3,500 BGN. TPP assets between 85 and 200 million, unclear exactly how many...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u23	Dear Mr. Simeonov, please, Mr. Dogan is not present!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u24	I'm not sure he's not present. He spiritually soars here, between chandeliers in the National Assembly. [[Applause from DPS.]] See? TPP "Varna" was privatized and was given to Ahmed Dogan, who bought his shares...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u25	Tell me about the fence!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u26	...bought all of the TPPs for 3,500 BGN, in the case of assets, I repeat, between 85 million and 200 million. Right after the purchase, and maybe a few months after that, the state gave him the cold reserve that represents...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u27	Now I ask you to come to the subject, dear Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u28	Yes, yes, it's right on the subject, but a little bit more concretely I direct the reasoning of the MPs. I said I would now explain why there is no logic in the request in the Bill that you intend to support. With TPP Varna, the state again performed another laying, lying before the DPS and in front of Ahmed Dogan, giving them the cold reserve of the TPP Maritsa East 2 (in the amount of 27 million plus another 2 million), one before that we gave them about 30 million to survive!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u29	Tell me about the fence!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u30	TPP - Varna - second year is already on serious profit and is killing its investments. But it's not TPP Varna, it's Ahmed Dogan. Ahmed Dogan could've reached for that $8 million. Therefore, in this move of reasoning, Mr. Hristov, I wanted to convince the MPs that they had money. They have money! This isn't about that $8 million. It's about something else. It should be shown to the entire National Assembly, to the whole Bulgarian society that the DPS commands the parade in Bulgaria, that without the DPS nothing happens that the DPS sets conditions and all the others have to comply with them! That's what I can't accept in any way, because do you know what that leads to? It is not a question of raising the self-esteem of the members of the DPS, nor of the Muslim religion in general, because we know very well what a suria is, in their language, mosques in which no one enters, with money from Arab foundations. You won't make them Muslims! As many Muslims as they were at the end of socialism in the time of Todor Zhivkov, there are no more. Everything else is material interests. No, that is not the question. The question is once again to stick a wedge in the Bulgarian society, to split it into Muslims and non-Muslims in order to pour water into the mill of political game and the intrigue of the DPS.. split the Bulgarian society and destabilize the Bulgarian state! I call on colleagues from GERB not to fall for this fishing rod. This should not be done even with small bills to ensure the immediate temporary guarantee of a majority of the quorum, because tomorrow there will be a new request, there will be another requirement the day after tomorrow. Mr. Tsvetanov, how long do we have to back off? Be a worthy heir to the great Bulgarians. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate all the ladies on March 8th! And to reduce the tension that we see is starting to generate in the Bulgarian Parliament. Dear colleagues, let us not divide Bulgaria into Muslims and Christians or any other religion! It won't do us any good, and it can only take us away from what our ancestors have bequeathed. Currently, Bulgaria is valuable with the fact that there is a variety of different religions. Bulgaria is valuable because it managed to preserve ethnic peace and everyone who participates in the political life of the country has contributed to this. I would not like to say the greater merit of the BSP, the DPS, GERB, the United Patriarchs and the Volya or all the other political formations that have been in the years of transition, including the SDS, and the ODS. Let us still be responsible and say what we did at the end of 2018. We fulfilled a political commitment that was discussed and which was taken over by all the political forces of the Advisory Council on National Security with President Rumen Radev. Let us remember the Advisory Council May 2017; let us remember the Advisory Council April 2018 and then there was a very clear political commitment by all the parliamentary forces that participated in this Advisory Council and we complied with it, and it was the general opinion of the President when he introduced the media to the objectives and to what we had achieved at the Advisory Council. Today, of course, everyone can interpret in their own way all of what we are discussing. Of course, the BSP, not attending parliament, not coming to work, can interpret the most freely and freely. But I would simply like to call on them to do not play with ethnic peace, because extreme speeches on this subject can lead to exactly one opposition, which we believe as a Member State of the European Union, we would not and should not allow it. Just to tell you, fellow Members of the United patriots who were quite sharp today, I, of course, accept every different opinion, but I can tell you that since I have been engaged in politics, I have never shared Bulgarian citizens on an ethnic basis for any reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u33	He's religious, not ethnic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u34	All right, and religious. And I have always treated people with due respect because it is their religion and I can tell you that the power of the Political Party GERB is that in these years it may be the only one who has representativeness of all faiths, and what I can tell you is that these are worthy Bulgarians. And just to tell you that on March 1st, when I was in Kardzhali, most of the people I met were Muslims. In no way are they any different from everyone else. And what we do today is we can actually give this stability to the state, to faiths and my request is: let us not go to extremes, because we will really reach for something that we ourselves will then regret. I can assure you that in all of what I am doing right now, because I am a collaborator with Mustafa Karadaye, for no reason has any condition been set, but we have just been reminded of what has been discussed at the Advisory Council on National Security. And here, by the way, does not honor the Bulgarian Socialist Party, because they were generally "for" but said they would simply not sign. Perhaps they were referring to the use of this topic by purely serving the political interests of their party. I will stop here, but I can tell you that I will vote on my conscience and no one has in any way shown any racketeering to sign and vote today on the Bill of Change of the Religion Act. I am convinced, from what we have heard from both the Ministry of Finance and yesterday's debate, which has been held in the Committee on Religions, that we should actually vote wisely, be responsible enough and in no way say that when there is a consensus on a bill and vote on the various political forces, it is always said that there is some racketeering or there is a deal. I am doing this in the interests of Bulgaria and I can tell you that I will never, on any occasion, change my position and position in this direction to defend national interests. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u36	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I had no intention of speaking at all, but there is something going on here that is not in order and violates the Constitution, the legislation in Bulgaria. First, I would like to say to Mr. Tsvetanov that not the United Patriarchs. The debate itself divides Bulgarian citizens to some to whom debt can be forgiven and others to whom debt cannot be simplified. This one, first. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, this debate violates the Constitution because, under the Constitution, the only institution that can forgive state obligations, the obligations to the state, is the President. The National Assembly cannot forgive any debt by any law! Read this Constitution and then insert such a bill, then make such a debate, otherwise there is no point in debating. How long are we gonna do this?! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u37	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Any other lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. I don't see any other speeches. We're closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 954-01-4, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. Vote 138 MPs: 104 against 28, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against it not because I am against the protection of national interests, not because I am opposed to Bulgaria helping all religions and not to worship foreign countries, but because we are doing it in the wrong way and we are turning people against each other, we are turning Muslims against Christians. What is the problem when a creed is granted a certain amount of money or is simplified, and other creeds in the same way to be compensated for the building of the Orthodox churches, to renovate churches, monasteries and so on?! Then there wouldn't be a problem. Why does it have to be about just one religion? It annoys people, it turns people on. So we say, this is the wrong way, this is the wrong way, this is the wrong way! Separately, colleagues previously from "United Patriarchs" said: Parliament granted nearly 6 million per year a subsidy to the Chief Mufti, which money could also cover these obligations over the years.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u39	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u40	Please don't replicate from the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u41	How can there not be such a thing when we voted it out?! Ten levs on count! [[Heckling]] That's right! We make one religion privileged to others, which is wrong. This irritates people and we are against it, we are not against protecting national interests. And I'm going to give another example. The building, where the main mufti is located, again in an illegal way the Sofia Estates gave it to the main mufti. It was donated by the Bulgarian from Macedonia Dimitar Stanishev and his wife of the Ministry of Enlightenment before 9 September in the Charity Fund for the Support of Bulgarians in the Western Outskirts and Macedonia, for scholarships. The property of Sofia illegally violated the will of these donors and gave it to the Chief Mufti. It still irritates people and makes conflicts. Couldn't another building have been loosed? So I say that these are steps over the years that are wrong and hate. It's not us who hate and set people up, it's the wrong political decisions. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u42	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, to celebrate the celebration of our colleagues, not only all women in Bulgaria, but also around the world.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u44	Fix your tie knot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u45	She is, Mr. Hamid with a more unusual node. Thank you for noticing. As far as this is concerned, I voted against it purely for economic reasons. It is unlikely that in this room, some of the colleagues who are economists will find someone who can disprove the thesis and tell you how much it takes to give up some income in the treasury and create a precedent. Because we did exactly that thing. I voted against it, because my belief is such that when we set precedents and create a chain of precedents, the system in which you create these precedents eventually dies, that is, it is destroyed from the inside. This represents catastrophic phenomena for the system itself. [[Heckling]] There is no way that we in the group of the United Patriarchs can support such a thing. You will hardly find a finance minister to tell you that he would lightly support in the treasury not to enter five levs and simplify five levs for example. [[Heckling]] This thing can be painted in any way, you can dress it in any way, but this is not the way you did it today. Thus, you will not solve the problem and thus create additional problems. I voted against it for another reason. Ms. Karayancheva made one mistake when she invited to read the motives of the importers. The two importers - Mustafa Karadayi and Tsvetan Tsvetanov - were in the hall, but none of them read them. The consideration of the reasons shall be made by another Member of the National Assembly in the event that the importers of the Bill are not physically present and cannot defend their motives before the Chamber. [[Noise.]] There's no way we can support that. Colleagues, be more reasonable!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsvetanov wants the floor. [[Replications of the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.]] Look, Mr. Shopov, I can't know when you raise your hand, which one of the MPs raises their hand for what purpose.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u47	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I want and I am doing a procedure to re-vote the bill, because my vote is being taken as against it, and I have voted for it. [[Radio, noise and lines.]] There's a technical problem with the device, not just mine, but Mr. Manushev's, so I want a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I will put the bill under consideration to the vote again. [[The National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] I'll give you the floor as soon as we finish the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 136 MPs: 109, against 24, abstention 3. [[Noise, lines and applause]] The motion is accepted. Moving on, fellow Members. You have the floor, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, through you I will also address my colleagues. Colleagues, look, we have some established rules in procedures, and we've always had them. In a negative vote procedure, the vote is always locked because we have already entered another procedure. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] I'm glad Mr. Kirilov will answer. I know that the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are a special law, but it has the status of law. We can't ignore it because there was a technical malfunction. And, Mr. Chairman, in your capacity of leading the meeting, please check all the consoles, because if it is a single case, let's call it an exception. But if it is a trend and it turns out that the votes of the Members of the National Assembly can be changed in the electronic system and a person who says: And again, my call is: let us observe the Rules as it is to be equal to all. Not to be an exception to those who govern and to the detriment of those who are in opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u50	Are you an opposition?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u51	No matter who is responsible must also be solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Indeed, I would ask that the voting system be checked once again. Mr. Petrov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, there is an intervention of hackers, and my voice is invoking for.. and I say that I voted against. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. There is a procedure in which we can deal with it. Mr. Atanasov, for a negative vote? Here you go. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor.]] I'll give you the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! If you see my life and my existence, at least I can be accused of lack of tolerance for religious beliefs in the country. I will only remind you that as mayor of Plovdiv right in my day with money from the municipality of Plovdiv and with the help of the municipality of Istanbul the monument of culture Dzhumaya mosque from the 14th century was restored. So in this respect, no one can accuse me of not tolerate creeds. But what I would like to say is, fellow Muslims, as I have many friends among this particular population, that does not exactly help Muslims, because in this way.................. by absolving the debts of a religion, we are making a really serious precedent. And this is not about the opposition of the Bulgarian people. On the contrary, with this decision we oppose it, because tomorrow and the day after tomorrow these debts will accumulate them and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. And to them, if we've set a precedent, should we forgive the debts?! That's not good, okay? Tomorrow-the day after and the evangelists will come and say: "Well forgive our debts too, because you have forgiven the Mufti. And what are we going to do here? I'm sorry, but we're like a social institution, it's a parliament after all. And that is why I am telling you: in my opinion today, the decision was not right, precisely because in this way we seem to tolerate a religious community in front of other religious communities. That's my opinion. And I strongly disagree that almost we Patriots oppose each other, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Kirilov, you wanted the floor on a point of order. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u57	Mr. President, I asked for the floor on a point of order following the procedure of my colleague Alexandrov in order to highlight the opposite opinion and understanding according to art. 71, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure, which reads: "When the voting procedure or the result thereof is challenged immediately after its completion, the President shall order that it be heard. In this case, Members, the question is: when does the vote end when we are in the hypothesis of a negative vote and after we vote through the electronic voting system, which imposed verification of which votes are in the deviation of the actual will of the Members of the National Assembly? In this case, as soon as this deviation has been identified, which was also seen in the re-vote, a re-vote is requested, so we should apply the Rules in accordance with its meaning and content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, we continue with the second point of the Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR PROCEEDING AND PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATE FOR THE SUPERVISOR OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S BANK, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF THE CANDIDIA IN THE COMMISSION OF THE BUDGET AND FINLAND AS WELL AS THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Who will present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u59	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a sub-government, Head of Management, Bank supervision and presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 7 March 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Election of a Sub-Management Officer "Bankov supervision" of the Bulgarian National Bank. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of a new governor of the Bulgarian National Bank. On 1 March 2019, a letter was received from Mr. Dimitar Kostov in the National Assembly's Ministry of Finance, with which he resigned as a deputy head of the Board of Directors in the Bulgarian National Bank. In accordance with art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank The National Assembly should elect a new governor. After the discussion held in the Committee on Budget and Finance with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a sub-government..Bankov supervising the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of the documents and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 12, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a sub-government.Bankov supervising the Bulgarian National Bank, presentation and public disclosure of the documents and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering of a candidate for a sub-manager.. Head of Management.Bankov supervising the Bulgarian National Bank, and presentation of his documents 1. The proposal for a candidate for a vice-governor is submitted in writing by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank to the Budget and Finance Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 3 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for a candidate for a vice-governor is accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the candidate. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 11, para. 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank), Annex 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3" to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) documents certifying the professionalism of the applicant in the field of economics, finance and banking (diploma for completed higher education, with a minimum degree of education, Master's degree; documents of work and/or service internship; certificates and/or certificates of acquired qualifications; recommendations relating to occupied posts; acquired specializations in the field of economics, finance and banking; other similar). 3. The circumstances of art. 11, para. 4 t. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank is established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposal together with the documents attached to it shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within a period not later than 8 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations, no later than three days before the hearing of the applicant, may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the applicant, including questions to be put to him. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidate to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. The opinions and questions are sent by mail to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar I. No 1, Budget and Finance Commission, or by e-mail of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. The applicant shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in Article 1. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of the applicant 1. Before listening to the proposed candidate, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant fulfils the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidate is represented by the manager of the Bulgarian National Bank within 10 minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. The candidate presents a concept of his activities as a sub-governeur of the Bulgarian National Bank in 20 minutes. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposal made. Members of the National Assembly shall address their questions to the applicant within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly. After running out of questions asked to the candidate by all MPs, the applicant shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and a relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the applicant. The report is accompanied by a draft decision for the election of the candidate for the sub-government "Bankov supervision" of the Bulgarian National Bank. 11. The applicant's refusal to participate in the hearing shall terminate the procedure. V. Election of a sub-government of the Bulgarian National Bank, from the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidate is present at the meeting with a decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. The candidate shall be represented by the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank in two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. The candidate shall be deemed elected if he has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected sub-government officer of the Bulgarian National Bank shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 11, para. 4 t. Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 12, para. 5 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank according to a model according to Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, Annexes 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 are next in accordance with the text of the Draft Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u60	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I will put it to the vote, but please, the Quaestors, let them invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote the draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a vice-governeur, Head of Management, Bank supervision, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I'm calling a 45-minute recess. Start of work 11:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u61	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with the work of today's sitting day. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today is the 8th of March, the International Women's Day. A celebration, as charged with political decorations, as well as loved, a day when we celebrate our respect for the gentle half of our society, a day of respect for the achievements of a woman partner, wife, mother, colleague, diversity and determination, guardian of the family, creator of the most precious gift of life. 42 years ago, March 8th was announced by a resolution of the UN General Assembly initially for an international day of working women, and subsequently for International Women's Day. Started as a socialist event in 1909 in the United States, today "110 years later, the festival is officially celebrated in 30 countries, while others celebrate it as Mother's Day. For many, it is simply an excuse to give a flower and show attention and respect to women in their lives. March 8th is not only a holiday, but also an occasion to take account of women's rights in the modern world. Have we done enough to make them equal to us men? The Beijing Declaration was adopted worldwide in 1995 confirming that women's and girls' rights are an integral part of universal human rights. In Bulgaria in 2007, the 40th National Assembly voted on a declaration calling for respect, especially for the woman, the supreme principle of protection of the person, her dignity and security. At the same time, the document recalls that there is still a relationship that raises concerns about the security and rights of the woman. Today, 12 years later, we can take into account that Bulgarian legislation has an impressive package of legal documents that regulate the equal rights of men and women. Among them are the laws on protection against discrimination and on equality between women and men. The forty-fourth National Assembly has also contributed in this direction. With the adoption of the amendments to the Penal Code tabled by our President Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, all forms of domestic violence are already crimes. However, these administrative steps, honourable Members, are not enough. It is not enough if all of us, regardless of our political bias, do not show our personal respect and love for the loved woman, mother, or colleague we work with. To give due recognition to the outstanding achievements of women scientists, to appreciate the professional successes of women leaders in economics and politics. And that will not be enough if each of us does not make efforts to create conditions for equality between women and men in all spheres of public, economic and political life, as recorded in the Management Program and the Government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. For equal treatment and non-discrimination, we do not need millions of national budget or European programmes, we need the personal commitment of every Bulgarian citizen, each of us. Today on March 8th, International Women's Day, let us wish the gentle half of the Bulgarian society health and happiness! Dear ladies, be our support and protection for home and family! Be active and brave! And let's not forget that behind every successful man is a strong woman! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND WATERS OF BENEFICIARY Art. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE PRESENTATION OF THE ACCORDANCE OF THE ATMOSFER AIR IN BULGARIA. Importers are Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The question will develop Mr. Hristo Grudev. Here you go, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The theme of atmospheric air quality is becoming increasingly sensitive to our society. The reasons for this are different. On the one hand, people have the right to breathe fresh air and to want high quality of life, and on the other hand there are speculative statements and use of informal data from unlicensed sources, instead of real, official data from the National System of Control, which controls the concentration of basic indicators on a daily basis. Improving the quality of the country's atmospheric air was laid down as a major priority in the environment, in the coalition government's programme for the management mandate. To date, Bulgaria is facing the challenge of meeting the requirements of the Cleaner Air Directive for Europe. This must be done by suspending the excess of the limit values of pollution and achieving emissions targets under the 2030 National Emission Ceilings Directive, developed in the context of the European Union Clean Air Policy Package 2013. The main element in non-compliance is fine particulate matter, which is why Bulgaria is subject to infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In particular, this concerns 28 municipalities which observe non-compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Directive for Europe with regard to particulate matter. The excesses of the midday norm occur mostly during the winter period, although in some municipalities there are individual excesses during the other seasons. In the opinions expressed by the Ministry of Environment and Water on the topic, as well as the draft of the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, it is clear that primary particulate emissions sources in all municipalities are domestic heating with the use of inefficient solid fuel stoves and road transport, especially diesel vehicles, with an environmental category before Euro 1. As representatives of the legislative body, we are closely involved with the problem. At the end of last year, we adopted amendments to the Law on Air Cleanliness, with which we set requirements for the quality of solid domestic fuels. The responsibilities of the individual institutions concerned with protecting air cleanliness were clearly distinguished, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities. Undoubtedly, much of the measures are within the authority of the local authorities. With legislative changes, on a proposal from the MPs from GERB, we have given the opportunity to enter the municipal budgets in order to implement effective measures to improve air in municipalities. The control mechanism has also expanded to ensure that the measures will not only remain on paper, but will have a real result, which we aim for and which is for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens - cleaner air. As MPs familiar with people's problems on the ground, we believe that the national policy for improving air quality should, on the one hand, be consistent with good examples and European practices, but, on the other, the specific features of the individual regions should be taken into account, as well as the economic opportunities of the people. Each locality has a different mix of sources of pollution, which is why measures must be specifically adapted to it in order to be effective. Given that the issue is extremely important and concerns the most valuable "health of the people," and you have placed the quality of the air as a top priority of the Ministry of Environment and Water, we have proposed this hearing. We would like you to provide us with more information on what policies and measures you are taking to improve the quality of the atmospheric air at national level, and how do they correspond to local government policies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u65	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Within 10 minutes Minister Dimov has the opportunity to inform us about the questions raised by the importers. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Achieving weather quality standards is a challenge for most countries in the European Union. Bulgaria is no exception in this regard. Therefore, at the very beginning of my mandate as a minister, I laid down the policy of improving the quality of the air as the first priority of the Ministry of Environment and Water with the clear awareness that concrete new measures need to be taken and the steps started to be accelerated. We also put this topic in the focus of the Bulgarian Presidency for a reason. Our policy is also part of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2007 It is important to note that in order to have cleaner air, political consensus and will to take unpopular measures is needed. Specific results can only be achieved with the assistance and action of all institutions at national and local level and with the active understanding and participation of citizens. Air pollution is a serious, not only environmental, but also a social problem that poses numerous challenges in terms of governance. At the same time, it is directly related to the quality of life and the health of people. The coordination council on the protection of air cleanliness, including representatives at the management level of all competent institutions, local authorities and employers, is now working to integrate the policies on the protection of air quality in other sectoral policies. The policy under way is primarily aimed at reducing and ending excess particulate pollution, which is the most serious problem in terms of air quality at national level and is subject to infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. At the same time, we must not forget that it is the municipalities who are responsible for achieving weather quality standards. Thanks to our efforts, local authorities are increasingly demonstrating that they recognise the importance of the problem and the need to put it on the agenda of local self-government. The mayors of municipalities where over-pollution is registered shall develop and implement programmes to improve air quality and reach the established standards in their territory through the implementation of the intended objectives under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. For various specific reasons, local policies have not yet achieved the desired results. Some of the reasons arise from the fact that air pollution also has its social aspect. This makes it difficult to implement some of the necessary measures. It is important that they are applied in such a way that they produce a sustainable result. One example. The presence of a transmission network in certain municipalities which, unfortunately, is not used precisely for social reasons. In relation to the above, the Ministry of Environment and Water took action at national level to assist the municipal authorities. They are aimed at reducing emissions from two sectors, which are identified in municipal programmes as having the greatest contribution to particulate pollution. The actions we have taken are as follows: The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air was adopted. I would like to emphasise that it was adopted with a broad political consensus and to thank both the experts who worked on it and the MPs who joined the Committee on Environment and Water, because it was important to have agreement on the measures that would be adopted so that they could be sustainable over time. With this important step, we have allowed concrete measures to improve air quality in some key directions. Provisions are introduced to limit the use of low-quality coal and briquettes for domestic heating. The State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision has been designated as a body for carrying out control functions for the implementation of these requirements. A legal basis has been created for the adoption of a regulation on the quality of coal and briquettes for domestic heating. A draft regulation is currently being developed within the Interdepartmental Working Group, which is to be adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers. The amendment of the Law provides grounds for the development of a Regulation on the requirements for wood provided to the population for domestic heating. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is currently forming an Interdepartmental Group to develop the regulatory document. In the context of the procedure for the adoption of the Bill, local authorities have clearly expressed support for those measures for solid fuels for domestic heating. The amendments to the Law clearly distinguishes the responsibilities regarding the management and control of air quality between municipal authorities, regional environmental and water inspections, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Ministry of Interior. The amendments to the Law require the implementation of the measures by municipal programs to lead to an annual reduction in the number of excesses of the standards for harmful substances and of the annual average levels of pollution until the legal requirements are met. The aim is to achieve concrete results. The plantation regime is expanded to the mayors implementing programs under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. The aim is for responsible institutions to take measures that lead to improved air quality and compliance with legislation requirements. Second, a draft National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality 2018. In the process is its coordination with the competent departments, its examination and adoption by the Council of Ministers. The programme provides for the implementation of measures for these sectors of domestic heating and transport, the main of which is the phased decommissioning of solid fuel stoves and boilers in the municipalities with impaired air quality. The implementation of the Programme in that period will be a large-scale project that will require the efforts of all stakeholders - ministries, municipalities, business, citizens. In order to implement the envisaged measures, a significant financial resource will be needed, depending on the scope it is estimated between 475 and 879 million. lv. In relation to the implementation of the National Atmospheric Air Quality Programme, the introduction of the requirements of Regulation 2015/1185 for solid fuel domestic heating appliances is envisaged earlier in 2020, in order to assist in replacing those appliances with those with lower emissions of harmful substances. In this regard, intensive talks are being held with the Ministry of Economy. We have also taken concrete steps to finance activities that are directly related to improving air quality. Within the framework of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "2020" two procedures for granting grants to municipalities have been opened. One procedure is to finance the municipal authorities to develop or update their air quality programmes, aiming at improving the quality of the programmes and therefore taking more adequate and efficient measures and actions to achieve the requirements of legislation. In the first stage the deadline for applying was 31 January 2017. 11 municipalities were approved at this stage. The second stage with a deadline for applying 31 January 2019 is currently being implemented. Until now, 8 municipalities have applied for it. The input project proposals are currently under consideration. The total value of these projects is up to 3 million. lv. The other procedure is to finance investment measures aimed at reducing emissions from certain main sources of pollution. The eligible beneficiaries of this are the municipalities Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas, Vidin, Montana, Dimitrovgrad and Smolyan, the total financial resource is about 111 million. lv. Fifthly, the National Air Pollution Control Programme is under development in order to comply with the requirements of the Directive on the reduction of national emissions from certain atmospheric pollutants. The adoption of a contractor of this programme will lead to a reduction in the overall emissions of certain major pollutants, which will contribute to achieving the quality required by legislation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, but there's a lot of measurements. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. With regard to transport emissions from competent authorities, measures shall be taken, including changes in the legislative framework and regulation to improve the quality and effectiveness of periodic technical examinations. The main problem is that most of the cars have malfunctioning exhaust systems. Seven, we have introduced additional restrictions on the purchase of catalysts from motor vehicles at waste acceptance points by applying strict controls and sanctions. Eighth, amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees are adopted, which aim to stimulate the use of cars leading to lower levels of pollution. Nine, we changed the ecotaxes, stimulating newer motor vehicles, as well as hybrids and electric cars. And tenthly, at the meeting of the ministers of the environment on 5 March this year in the context of greening the European semester, I have made a proposal that I will develop and seek support from other countries -- mainly from Central and Eastern Europe -- to build a fund to be financed from the European Union budget, from large producers of electric cars, from energy companies, so that in Central and Eastern Europe, the development of the infrastructure for the movement of electric cars; at the next stage, support for urban transport and its electrification; and, finally, support for individuals and households to move to this type of transport. I would also like to inform you that to date, the result of the efforts made by all countries, municipalities, industry, citizens, data from the monitoring of air quality in recent years have shown a constant positive trend of reducing particulate pollution. If five years ago, by 2013, there was only one municipality in which air quality met the requirements of legislation, then in 2017 compliance with the standards of six municipalities had already been achieved. It is about Devnya, Dobrich, Pirdop, Sliven, Galabovo and Stara Zagora. According to the data available at the moment, I stress that preliminary data for 2018 strengthens the achievement of the standards of these municipalities, as compliance is possible to achieve three more "Lovech, Varna and Dimitrovgrad." Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Environment and Water continues to pursue an active and consistent policy to improve the quality of the air. A partnership between all institutions, municipal authorities, business and citizens is needed to achieve the desired results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u67	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving on to the questions from each parliamentary group. I recall the rules under which this hearing is being held: each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to two questions within two minutes before the Minister who is invited to be heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to express their attitude to the answers within five minutes of asking all questions. We start with a question from GERB's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In the Committee on Environment and Water, we have already had the opportunity to meet and discuss the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, which has a horizon up to 2024. The project was developed with the World Bank's consulting assistance and is extremely important because it gives a clear picture at national level of the main sources of excess air pollution with fine dust particles, which is why our country is also subject to criminal procedure. The two main sectors that issue harmful emissions are domestic solid fuel heating and road transport. The National Programme draft recommends several measures to reduce the emissions of fine particulate matter from the domestic heating sector. We, as representatives of the legislative body, have already placed some of them on the table with the adoption of amendments to the Act on Air Cleanliness, for example, for the introduction of standards on the quality of solid fuels used for domestic heating. Another proposed measure is an earlier introduction by the European Parliament from 1 January 2020, of stricter standards in the design of space heaters. An important measure is also necessarily phased out of use of solid fuel heaters, stoves and boilers which do not comply with the requirements of the Ecodesign Regulations. In this regard, what I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, is this: what is provided in the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, for the implementation of the basic proposed measure for the gradual removal of solid fuel stoves and boilers, and with what will the old solid fuel appliances be replaced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Mr. Minister, you are welcome to answer the question on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, asked by the National Representative Daniela Dimitrova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u70	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, the main proposal in the National Programme is for mandatory phase-out of use of solid fuel stoves and boilers, which are a source of high emissions of particulate matter. There are several options that are proposed to implement the measure. The first is connecting, in particular, and reconnecting households to the transmission, distribution or heating network, where, of course, this is available and possible. I just want to say that the World Bank report states that when this network is built, it is expected to be the cheapest way to overcome pollution and where the most expensive one is not built. I would also like to say to all those who are listening to us that domestic gasification can be assisted by the state through the Programme of the Ministry of Economy, which has already implemented projects, supporting households who want to switch to natural gas. The second option under consideration is the possibility of switching heating with another type of fuel.. Whether it will be electricity, heat pumps or other suitable source, depending on what the specific municipality has as an opportunity. In the absence of any of the above options, the last option remains the replacement of appliances with solid fuel but meet the requirements of Regulation 2015/2185 for household solid fuel appliances, i.e. low emission and energy efficient combustion devices. Here I would like to say that the conversations we have with the Ministry of Economy, on the one hand, we have to take care of the clean air, on the other hand, Bulgarian producers must have technological time to be able to move on to this standard. The problem is not small and we need to find a balance between these two conflicting problems. It is proposed that the implementation of the measure should include two stages in the Programme. The first stage is preparatory and research activities and, the second, actual implementation of equipment replacement activities in municipalities with impaired air quality. Which of these options or what combination of them will be preferred by a municipality depends on the programme of the municipality itself. Therefore, an important element of the change in the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act was the demand for concrete results in the implementation of the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next largest group of BSPs will obviously not benefit from the possibility to ask a question to the Minister. I invite a Member of the Parliament from the group of the United Patriarchs to take this opportunity. Mr. Yachev, you have the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you have outlined the detailed changes in the legislative framework and in the regulation. For me and, I suppose, for a large part of the Bulgarian public, however, it is interesting to learn more about the specific measures in the transport sector, as this is a sector that concerns a large part of the Bulgarian society. My question is: what are the specific measures to be taken and will be taken in the area of the transport sector based on the cooked changes in the legislative framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The control of initial registration of motor vehicles is envisaged to be strengthened, and under the Road Vehicles Act, an initial registration of used vehicles will be carried out and the exhaust emissions data will be entered into a technical register of the vehicles of the Motor Vehicle Administration Executive Agency. In addition, a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on periodic tests for the testing of road vehicles provides for the classification of road vehicles from the point of view of compliance of emissions of harmful substances in the exhaust gases of the vehicle and the environmental categorisation of the vehicle, so-called Eurostandards. Requirements for grading by placing a marking sticker on vehicles in five environmental groups shall be introduced depending on the degree of negative impact. The implementation of the measure will help those municipalities which will have to create the so-called low emission zones through which a restriction of the movement of the municipalities can be carried out in order to reduce air pollution. In addition to what I have also mentioned in the general presentation, we are thinking of an option in which to make the European Fund specifically supporting electromobilization and electromobility in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. We are also discussing in the next Operational Programme to be set as set out, and in this support for municipalities in the direction of replacing domestic heating, there should be another line that is replacement and assistance in replacing cars with electric cars. So this will also be part of the financial resource that we will try to attract so that the problem of road transport can also be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, we have heard your extensive statement regarding what needs to be done about the quality and purity of the atmospheric air. We share these views, but more action should be taken as concrete measures. I, as a doctor and an ecologist, allow myself to say that I am extremely concerned by the statistics that the World Health Organisation has on air pollution as a great risk to health and within the European Union related to the environment. Only in the Member States of the Union, air pollution leads to an average of more than 1000 cases of premature death every day, which exceeds more than 10 times the number of deaths in road accidents. Bulgaria is top of the criterion for losing years of life in good health due to air pollution, in Bulgaria it is 2.4 per cent of the population. It is certainly that we in Bulgaria breathe air, which is among the most contaminated in the Union, which is even dirtier than the one in China. Unfortunately, instead of writing, we need to continue writing and we need to approach concrete measures, as I said earlier. We know the findings of the European Court of Auditors that there must be a specific focus on the measures. They must be more effective in order to achieve this quality. Now we have a National Programme for improving the quality of atmospheric air in Bulgaria, we have also amended the Law. In general, I share that we did so by consensus and we should note that both you and the ruling majority have heard our proposals and the Law has been greatly improved in view of subjectivity. But here we must not overlook the fact that the subjectivity was mainly included in the State Agency for Metrology and Metrology Supervision and of the Municipalities and must be filled with content. I would therefore like to ask you specifically what are the real measures and actions that the state is taking to address the problem of air quality? Are you working on solid fuel standards? Between you pointed out in this regulation, I will not specifically list, will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry do what is necessary to standardise solid fuels? Regarding the registration of cars, however, control needs to be strengthened there and the necessary regulatory changes must be made, the regulation must be precise for the settlement of public relations, the quality of the cars that pollute, especially in large cities, is a very serious problem. As a third question, I would like to ask you: from the Operational Programme "Environment" will only large cities be in the focus of attention? In my opinion, the target should be especially in small towns, in view of the social vector for improving the quality of the air, in view of the opportunities it has, in view of the difference of quality and standard of living in the respective settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question. There are three questions left within the procedure, but given the relationship between them, I hope you will be able to answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u78	Thank you. Firstly, Mr. Chakarov, when we talk about air pollution, I agree that Bulgaria has the most polluted air, but only with fine dust particles. You know that there are also about eight other polluters under which Bulgaria fulfils the criteria. So from this point of view, for example, Germany does not have such a problem with fine particulate matter, but it has a problem with nitrogen oxides, so I would not put Bulgaria as the most... [[Reply by MP Jevdet Chakarov.]] As far as China is concerned, I don't think the information is quite accurate either. Maybe if you're looking at a mountain in China and in Sofia you're right. Specifically on the standards in question for solid fuels I will divide them because the Law gives two different competences. One is related to briquettes and coal heating to be monitored by the State Agency for Metrology and Metrological Supervision. A draft regulation has now been drawn up and is released to all interested departments within the working group because, as you yourself said, when all parties look at it, refer to the Air Cleanliness Act, it improves. In the same way we are currently using all interested to express their views. Under this regulation, we are in an advanced phase and I hope that it will soon go to inter-agency coordination and, respectively, acceptance. As for the slightly more complex problem, which is at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, it is about the requirements for wood offered to citizens, they are currently in the process of creating this interdepartmental group. We ourselves received a letter asking us to send our representatives, so there it is at a slightly more backward stage. This is the information I have so far, about this. This is in terms of fuel standards. However, it is also good to add this earlier introduction, which I have just spoken about, to household heating appliances that meet the new requirements, a regulation that will enter into force from 2022 for all Member States. In practice, since this season, there has been a very serious trend in some of the major European countries, in the sense that customers themselves do not want to buy other types of appliances. So this may have a pre-emptive effect in some countries. We realize that importers may be relatively easy to import those that are already produced in Germany, France and other countries, but we must also think about the Bulgarian production, which has the time needed to be able to recalibrate its It's not an easy process. From this point of view, thinking about the cleanliness of the atmospheric air, we need to think about the economy and look for the balance between the two. This is something I've been trying to do since day one at the Ministry, because only the balance between the two will give us a better quality of life. Vehicle registration. In fact, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has already started this procedure. As far as I know, there are requirements for the first registration in Sofia "Sofia Municipality" gave such analysts to the DMV. This year we will also have talks with the Operational Program for the reformulation of some of the axes and will look for an opportunity through the Operational Program to supply all the others who cannot receive from the municipalities, with this type of analysts to cover the whole country. Undoubtedly, control of the periodic technical review is also extremely important. What depended on the Ministry of Environment and Water, we introduced it with new requirements for returning catalysts to secondary raw materials points. In fact, we want a statement from the owner or that the car was driven out of traffic, ended its life, or that it was replaced with a new one. If there is no such declaration of the specific catalyst at this point, there will be checks and we believe that this is an improvement to that problem that we had with the theft of catalysts that we are well aware of. The operational program was the third letter of the question you asked me. We are currently focusing on these cities that meet six criteria. I have had the opportunity to answer to the National Assembly for them, but even in this programming period this is the moment when we will be looking for reservations from other axes that can potentially pass to Oss........................... to help other municipalities as well. At this stage, I cannot divide them into large and small, we share them with those who are in the penal procedure, which are priority, and then, of course, this will be a problem that needs to be extended to others, but here is very similar to the sewage treatment plants. We start with over 10,000, then 2 to 10,000. I'm using this case to say that from this year the PDAOS has changed its rules and made those from 2 to 10,000 equivalent residents eligible to apply. You know very well that the resource is extremely limited. After all, these are steps by which we open the door to the smaller ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Honourable colleagues from the group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilists, you have the opportunity to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/1185 of 24 April 2015 implementing Directive 2009/125 (EC) of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to ecodesign requirements for solid fuel local space heaters lays down ecodesign requirements for the marketing and entry into service of solid fuel local space heaters with a rated heat output of 50 kW or less. With such power are practically all home heating appliances. Those requirements should enter into force from 1 January 2022. In this regard, it is also my question to you: what are the reasons why the Ministry of Environment and Water wants the earlier introduction of the requirements of the Regulation to the Ecodesign Directive, and how will this help meet the requirements for ambient air quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u81	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question of the MP Elena Axieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The earlier application of the requirements of the household space heaters and solid fuel Regulation will only ensure the placing on the market of low particulate household combustion plants. In practice, what this Regulation provides is for the reduction of fine dust particles to be about 90% compared to the traditional ones currently present. That is, you see a very serious reduction, so this will undoubtedly contribute to a 70-percent reduction in the particulate matter released into the atmosphere by the heating installations that are currently being used naturally after being replaced. Additional implementation of this measure will significantly support the implementation of the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality, in which the main measure is the replacement of old, ineffective, with high emission fuel units. If the requirements of the Regulation are not introduced earlier, the implementation of the programme until its official introduction will be very difficult. But since I had the opportunity to say before that the problem is not only from an environmental point of view, it is also from the point of view of the Bulgarian economy and the Bulgarian business, which needs to adapt to these new requirements, one of the things we have set out in the requirements of the municipalities, which are beneficiaries of the Operational Programme. If they use this third version of the replacement of appliances with others that will be solid fuel, these appliances must comply with the Regulation which will enter into force 2022 so that efficiency can actually be such that it has real results in improving air cleanliness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be a question from MPs who are not members of parliamentary groups? I don't see one. We move on to the second questions on behalf of parliamentary groups. On behalf of GERB, come in, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your information so far. It is evident that both we in the legislative body and the responsible executive institution are making efforts and implementing measures to improve the quality of the air. For the first time, European solidarity in the current programming period has been aimed at addressing the problem of air pollution in our country. We all know that the funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" are not enough to solve the problem in all municipalities with identified air quality problems, which are part of the criminal procedure. We also need activity from the mayors and their teams to overcome the problem. In their powers are many activities that can lead to improvement of air quality, urban traffic management, improvement of urban transport, the construction of green belts and systems in cities, the washing of streets, the announcement of low emissions zones. The renovation of buildings is also important and the implementation of energy efficiency measures. However, for the implementation of a complex of effective measures to address the problem of air pollution in a municipality, funds are needed. In this regard, it is also my question to you, namely: Is funding provided for the other municipalities, outside the mentioned seven, which will receive funding under the Operational Programme "Environment" and is funding provided from other sources besides the Operational Programme "Environment" for implementing measures to improve air quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u86	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Already in the current operational programme we will look for funding reserves for other municipalities as well. In addition to the funds under the Operational Programme, the government is looking for an opportunity to finance measures to improve air quality and with budget funds. On the other hand, municipalities should also be betting money on their municipal budgets. This will show the level of their interest in solving the problem. Moreover, for the next programming period, the introduction of the criteria of the municipal budget per capita contribution, to which future beneficiaries should be responsible, can be discussed in order to receive funding for measures relating to improving air quality. Outside the Operational Programme, additional funding of the LIFE Programme of the European Commission is possible, which allows the financing of projects in the field of improving air quality and reducing emissions from particulate matter. This is one of the European Commission's very small programmes, which for the next period will have a heavily increased budget of just over 3 billion. EUR in the current period, approximately 5.4 billion. EUR for the next period. So this is a very serious resource. These billions are, of course, for the whole European Union and not just for Bulgaria, but this is a very serious resource to which municipalities can focus. By the way, it is already a fact such an integrated project that unites six large municipalities in Bulgaria. These are: Sofia, Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Montana, Ruse and Stara Zagora. The total budget of their integrated project is just over 16 million. BGN, like about 10 million. lv. of which will be financed by European funds under the LIFE Programme. Apart from the positive effect on air quality, we consider the implementation of the measures related to the Operational Programme in the mentioned seven municipalities as a kind of pilot project that will enable us to protect more efficiently and more effectively from European funds for municipalities in the next programming period. Considering in practice that these municipalities are perhaps with the greatest capacity to absorb funds, we will be able to draw a lesson from this point of view, when we negotiate the next programming period, to have more clarity about what funds are needed and how they can be spent. The Ministry of Environment and Water is working to secure these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the group of the United Patriarchs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in relation to the information you have provided here regarding the extremely important issue of air pollution and the National Programme on pollution control, my question to you, to a large extent, you have answered it, is: what are the parameters, tasks, and, accordingly, the effects of this programme, which will lead to the greater quality of the atmospheric air above all at national level, but also in correspondence with local policies in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The development of the National Air Pollution Control Programme is in compliance with the requirements of the Directive adopted in 2016 on emission ceilings for harmful substances in the ambient air. Directive (EU) 2016/2284 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending Directive 2003/35/EC and repealing Directive 2001/81/EC. This Directive, which aims at the general reduction of emissions of certain major pollutants in the ambient air, establishes obligations for each Member State to reduce emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia and particulate matter. The commitments are defined as a percentage reduction in total national emissions in 2020 and 2030 respectively, in relation to the base year National emission reduction obligations have been determined as a result of intensive negotiations with the European Commission in the process of drafting and adopting the Directive, and for Bulgaria almost all pollutants are around or below the average of the Member States of the European Union, of course, with the exception of fine particulate matter. National emission reduction obligations meet the country's interests and capabilities. After the development and coordination of the National Programme, it will be adopted by the Council of Ministers. It cannot be expected that this programme will solve the problems that our country has with particulate pollution, but through the overall reduction of pollutants, dust and particulate precursors, it will in any case contribute to this. According to what I have at the moment, in implementing the Programme, which provides for measures in all major sectors, including agriculture, road transport, domestic heating, Bulgaria will be able to meet the requirements of the Directive on national ceilings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Group of the Movement for Rights and There won't be a question. On behalf of VOLIA, there will also be no question from the second round. That concludes the possibility of asking questions. Will a Member of the National Assembly be concerned on behalf of a parliamentary group with the answers given by the hearing Minister Dimov? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, you have the opportunity to express your attitude to what you have heard about the subject under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your information. It is important that both we MPs and citizens know what has been undertaken and what progress is made in improving the quality of the air. We in the GERB parliamentary group support and encourage your efforts, your team and the Ministry of Environment and Water, which are being addressed to solve this so significant problem. We know this can't happen instantly. We know that the process requires commitment from all stakeholders, including every individual citizen. The reports, as well as colleagues quoted, of the European and international organisations dealing with this topic are uncompromising in their findings. This week, the UN Special Report on Human Rights and the Environment David Boyd presented, according to which air pollution results in 7 million premature deaths worldwide every year, including 600,000 among children. This huge number of victims of the dirty air shows that the problem is global and decisive measures must be taken to reduce them. This data also proves that air pollution is an invisible killer and even more effort must be made to take more effective measures to reduce its impact on human health. We cannot fail to take into account that there is a sustainable positive trend that has been cited by you as well. It became clear that out of the 28 cities that are in the penal procedure, nine already meet the requirements in accordance with the European norms laid down. In recent years, much has been done in the country in terms of investment and this has also contributed. Investment was made to improve the urban environment, to renovate the bus and coach transport fleet, to expand the subway network in the capital, to buy new tram cars and trolleybuses in the major cities of the country, to build bikes and green street areas, to maintain green systems, to introduce energy efficient systems for heating buildings and renovations, but the challenge is still standing before us and the work is in three main guidelines: legislative measures, control and concrete actions and investments for clean air. As representatives of the legislator, we are also committed to the issue and, at the end of last year, we adopted proposals from the Council of Ministers, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Air Cleanliness. We will monitor the implementation of the deadlines and measures set in it. We expect by the end of the month to be adopted by the Council of Ministers the National Programme for the Improvement of Air Quality. We expect it to be developed and introduced at the beginning of next month the Ordinance on the quality of coal and briquettes, on the order and manner of control, packaging and labelling, and by the middle of the year, as set out in the Act, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests must develop a Regulation on requirements and control of wood for domestic heating. Effective control is the most important and we trust that the control bodies will be uncompromising because the issue of air is related to human health. A good initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Water is the development of the National Air Pollution Control Programme. We believe that this will improve control, as well as the upgrade and development of monitoring systems. We will continue to demand, in accordance with our powers, that the Ministry of Environment and Water monitor all industrial enterprises and uncompromisingly sanction those who allow violations and pollute the air. They should be required to comply with the highest European standards. This deeply excites people, including in the electoral area, from which I have been chosen. In order to achieve the overall objective, it is necessary to invest more clean air for all, it is necessary to invest wisely and effectively. Thank you for your efforts and we rely on this to continue the accelerated implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" to achieve faster and better results. The maximum needs to be used by municipalities and programmes to improve the urban environment, for energy efficiency, of course, and opportunities, including on a European line, with the programmes that have been cited by you, directly funded by the European Commission. Therefore, all municipalities must be active. Finally, I would like to emphasise the important role of the Ministry of Environment and Water as coordinator of the efforts of all other institutions and stakeholders. I think that only in close partnership with all of them, especially with municipalities, can the problem of contaminated air be overcome and, of course, work also in terms of information campaigns, helping citizens to move towards non-contaminated methods of heating and movement. Thank you again. We continue to work together to achieve the common goal of cleaner air for the Bulgarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Let's move on. Unfortunately, colleagues from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party are absent. From the group of the United Patriarchs? I won't. Mr. Chakarov, please come in and express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it is evident that not a little effort is being made in the direction in which we should all be working as Minister of the Ministry, which coordinates these efforts and real actions. There is no doubt that there is much done, but in fact for me, the greater part of the real measures and actions that need to be taken are yet to come. With regard to large cities, I am abstracted by what I could say as a finding by the European Court of Auditors. I would like to be more realistic and pragmatic and point out, in general terms, that there are many components, but for large cities, pollutants are cars and dust. With regard to cars, naturally, quality and standard of living must be changed. Unfortunately, we are the country with the lowest gross domestic product. Your idea and goal of all of us to introduce electric cars is very good, but it will hardly happen in a very short period of time. Firstly, with regard to the standard, and secondly, the infrastructure to be built in the country. Let's assume that it could be achieved so that more and more new cars can be bought to wish this, to have a better quality and standard of living! The other one, which was recently done in Sofia in particular, can not help but point to the washing of the streets. This is very important. It should be envisaged in municipal programs and should be laid down in Plovdiv, in other cities we have seen it. It's not just an accident and a campaign! To be pawned and to achieve the corresponding parameters. With regard to small and medium-sized settlements, the largest pollutant in the winter period is the burning of wood that does not meet the standards. In view of this, the colleague Ivelina Vassileva and I, in the questions I asked you, asked: what does the Ministry of Agriculture and Food do? There we should pay attention to you correctly point out that it is good to replace the heating appliances, but we also need to be realistic! Given the profile of the social group, the social vector of these people, they hardly have the opportunity to even replace their heating appliances in the villages.. when they hear this thing, I don't want to imagine what tension we would create. Secondly, assuming that funds are found on different stock feathers, from then on, where there is gasification, undoubtedly the cheapest fuel is wood heating. All this must be very properly read and sized, there should be no burden on citizens until we can afford a higher standard. And we must work to achieve this by all of us, so I would by no means like to create all of us as politicians tensions in small and medium-sized towns. I welcome your approach to finding out about all municipalities that have adequate municipal programmes, after there is a national programme with adequate action, except for the Operational Programme "Environment," the corresponding item there, I will not list in detail, to find budget funds for real and effective actions to improve the quality of the air. In this respect we will expect your decisions and positive steps. I am convinced that all MPs, without regard to being ruling or currently opposition, would support your initiatives. I address to you the resource in the PPOOS is indeed limited, but in view of the needs and opportunities it has, in view of the surplus in the budget, it is right and normal for these policies to also devote the necessary funds and for you as a minister to have a successful realization in the name of better quality and standard of living for all of us, in both large and medium-sized settlements. We wish you luck! We will work together and monitor the implementation of these policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov! This concludes the hearing of Minister Dimov. We continue with the questions to Minister Dimov on the next point: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the implementation of the Operational Programme You have the floor, dear Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimov, according to the information that is available, the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" is going through many challenges. Negotiating the funds under the Programme is a little over 51%, which is somewhat good. Really paid funds are about 16%. As a Programme for financing infrastructure projects, this is perhaps one of the toughest programmes, together with the Programme of Transport and requires serious time both physically and for implementation as a financial framework and parameters. In the framework of parliamentary control, I have repeatedly asked questions to you, and before that, to fellow ministers of the environment and water, and I do not hide our extreme concern about realization. We would like there to be a successful implementation of the Operational Programme. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" at this time as both physical parameters and financial parameters, is there a risk of loss of funds........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The answer is quite bulky and I will ask for a little more patience, because there is really a lot of information, and the fact is that from the very beginning Mr. Chakarov through his questions assists and indicates moments where measures need to be taken in order for the Operational Programme to go in an acceptable way. Regarding the financial implementation of Operational Programme 2014 "Europe 2020" I can say the following: Firstly, the announced procedures for granting grants are currently a total of 36 to provide financing of a total of 3.5 billion and this is about 103% of the total resource. You know very well that we must definitely over-negotiate, as the Public Procurement Act always has a price reduction. The agreed amounts currently in euro and national funding amount to 1.76 billion. lv. or what you yourself have said? 51 per cent of the Programme's budget. The amounts paid for the programme and the national co-financing of the beneficiaries are 563.7 million. lv. or about 16.3%. The verified costs, these are European and national, at the end of February 2019, amount to 464 million. or 13.4% of the budget. The certified, i.e. the finally recognised grant to the European Commission, only European co-financing at the moment, is 461.4 million. BGN, which is equal to 13,3% of the budget. To stress the progress that this indicator was slightly over 1% in May 2017. Now it's 13.3%, I mean, I think there's a lot of significant progress despite the small figure that represents 13, but that's more than 10 times improvement. The main physical implementation of Operational Programme 2014 "Environment 2020": a total of 95 projects have been successfully implemented at the moment. 21 of them have been successfully implemented. The main part of the implementation of projects under the Operational Programme is aimed at building an ecological infrastructure aimed at raising the standard of living by investing in environmental protection. With regard to individual axles: 1. Physical progress on Ossus. 21 projects are underway and 6 projects are currently implemented. Among them are the infrastructure projects of the municipalities of Bansko, Radnevo, Shumen and Tervel, as well as the projects of the Executive Environment Agency on the development and implementation of a method for analysis of water, sediment and biota, as well as the project of the Directorate of Water Management. 2. Physical progress on Axis 2 34 projects on this axis are under way. 3. Physical progress under Axis 3. Natura 2000. Biodiversity. Within the Priority Axis 17 projects are implemented. A project has been successfully implemented so far aimed at implementing the management approach of the Natura 2000 project. It was also implemented in the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Biodiversity Act. The public discussion ended, there was a round table, and now there is a meeting with the Council of Scientists to the Minister, and there is inter-agency coordination. I assume that in the very near future he will enter the Council of Ministers and from there he will come to you for consideration. 4. Physical progress on Axis 4 Prevention and management of flood risk and landslides. Within the Priority Axis, the funding of 12 projects has been agreed, and they are all currently in the process of implementation. 5. Physical progress on Axis 5 - Atmospheric air quality. A total of 12 projects have been agreed within the Priority Axis so far. In the process of implementation are 3, and the other 9 s of the municipalities Blagoevgrad, Shumen, Galabovo, Dimitrovgrad, Plovdiv, Asenovgrad, Nessebar, Montana and the Executive Environment Agency are successfully completed. As a result, the municipalities developed or updated atmospheric air quality programmes and the Executive Agency established an information system for reporting air quality data as part of the national real-time monitoring system. We had the opportunity to discuss this in detail in the hearing. Regarding your question about the loss of funds. For 2018, a risk was identified at the beginning of the year, and I gave this answer to your question in 2017, amounting to EUR 57 million, of which EUR 21 million from the Cohesion Fund and EUR 36 million from the European Regional Development Fund. In this regard, targeted actions were carried out by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme to increase efficiency and accelerate the work of the Programme. As a result, to date we can take into account that this risk has been overcome. In fact, by December 31, we had no loss. The Operational Programme "Environment 2014" is the Programme, whose successful implementation depends largely on the implementation of the project activities leading from its part to the physical realization of priorities in the Environment sector and not least, and to increase the levels of payment of the certified funds under the Fund. The Managing Authority shall make maximum efforts to accelerate the implementation of the Programme. A number of measures have been taken to improve the preparation of projects by beneficiaries for the procedures for granting grants. Our actions are related to organizing and conducting individual consultations, active communication and training of beneficiaries. The Managing Authority team shall also conduct intensive communication with the competent services of the European Commission for the rapid resolution of the issues arising at each stage of the programming cycle. Despite the difficulties, however, the data I have introduced to you show clearly that 2018 is successful in terms of increasing the absorption of funds, including certification, and the risks of loss have been overcome. Naturally, 2019 comes with a new challenge and I hope that, together with the Managing Authority, we will do everything necessary to overcome it successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u99	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a question, dear Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u100	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, from what we hear about 2018 I had information, it is really good, congratulations to the team of the Ministry that these funds will not be lost. However, I suggest that we take a look at the macrogram on the implementation of the overall Operational Programme "Environment." I will allow myself to express and say in the language of Brussels.. already as Europeans that we have every reason to have serious concern, and you, including Mr Minister, and to make the necessary efforts as a country... especially you as a minister, your team, the Managing Authority, as you have said, I hope that the Managing Authority has the necessary administrative capacity, given that we are now 2019 and the programming period is 2014-2020. At the same time, I realize that the realization of the Operational Programme, especially in the part that is the most heavy on the first axis of the Waterways, also stems from the so-called Water Sector Reform, from the creation of water associations and so on, there was and there was a serious delay. I hope there are already projects that will be well prepared. After the studies and the general plans, all kinds of funds were put into it hugely. We have no right to lose that money as a country. The resources are limited, the needs in the water sector are enormous. This will be a contribution not to increase the cost of the water service, to improve the quality and standard for all of us. I do not minimize the rest of the axes, but this axis is difficult, heavy to implement, we have little time left, so I hope for full mobilisation by all of us, including, if necessary, by the legislative authority in the face of the Commission and the National Assembly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. We would like there to be a successful realization in the name of improving quality and standard with regard to both the water sector and the other axes to achieve the goals. I wish you success, but we will continue to monitor this process together and we would like to have really successful realization, Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You're right. The first axis is one of the hardest. There are 14 associated plumbing operators who have to submit their projects. At this point, with the water supply, Smolyan had already concluded the contract, so this was the first, to call it a pilot. Literally, four have been filed in the last week. The deadline for the submission of the others is the second half or third third of the month of April. I think it was around the 20th, I hope, by then the others will be able to submit. It's really complicated. You yourself know and mentioned it several times. Outside of this information, here I will use only for clarity when we talked about electrification, the idea of this fund, which I want to propose and about which I spoke at the meeting of ministers for electromobilization, energy mobility, is to be able to have funds to assist it and, first of all, is building an infrastructure, because without it, there is no way to do it; secondly, to support urban transport in all cities, because we see that there are now more opportunities and others are less; thirdly, if there is any desire, as is now the replacement of the stoves to be supported, will not be obliged because it is too extravagant and I do not think in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u103	Thank you, dear Minister. Before I give the floor for the next question to Minister Dimov, I would like to announce that there are no new questions for the period 1 March 2019 and the written answers to the MPs from the Bulgarian Socialist Party who are absent will be further served in their parliamentary group. The second question to Minister Dimov is from the MP Daniela Dimitrova on the integrated project for improving the water sector in the town of Dobrich. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! My question is about an integrated project to improve the water sector in the town of Dobrich. Dear Minister, at the end of 2016, the mayor of the municipality in the town of Dobrich Yordanov and Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva signed the contract and in the summer of 2017. You made the first dig of the largest project of Dobrich Municipality lv. The project has more than a 10-year drama story. In 2004, the European Commission agreed to start preparing and to provide funding under the ISPA programme. There is a long period of analysis and preparation. In 2012, the project was presented to the European Commission. Unfortunately, in 2013 the Operational Programme "Environment" was suspended and during 2014 the government of Oresharski the European Commission refused to finance it. Prime Minister Borisov's government has made a lot of efforts and managed to convince the European Commission that this should be one of the first early projects for the current new programming period. With its implementation, the loss of drinking water was reduced, which reached nearly 86%. Currently, 80 km of water lines are being rehabilitated and water supply is normalizing in the city. In this regard, and given the importance of the Project for residents of the city of Dobrich, my question to you is: at what stage is the implementation of the project activities and do you expect the completion of the construction works in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimitrova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The project "Integrating project for improvement of the water sector in the town of Dobrich " Phase 1 " with the beneficiary municipality of Dobrich is implemented by means of a grant agreement of 30 December 2016 amounting to a total of 86.2 million. lv. without VAT. The project will contribute to the construction of a macro..., oh, there has been a great deal of talk today,...of the macro-regional strategy of the European Union. The implementation of the project activities will contribute to the achievement of one of the main priorities of the Danube Strategy, namely the restoration and preservation of water quality set for the goal of the Danube Strategy. The implementation of the Project will achieve the main objectives set out in the Water Framework Directive, as well as the Directive on the treatment of waste water from settlements and the Directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption. As a result of the implementation of the project, the following concrete results are expected: reconstruction, modernization and expansion of the waste water treatment plant of the city of Dobrich; water treatment and prevent contamination by the receiver; reconstruction, rehabilitation of the water and sewage networks. The main stages as follows so far: Activity One "Engineering for reconstruction and expansion of the waste water treatment plant town of Dobrich. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. without VAT. The construction works started on 21 March 2018 and are in an advanced stage of implementation according to the approved schedule. The MRI is expected to be completed within the agreed deadline. Activity two "In addition design, copyright supervision, reconstruction and rehabilitation of the water supply network of the town of Dobrich. The following contracts are concluded in the implementation of the activities: 1. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. lv. without VAT. Construction works started in August 2017 and are at an advanced stage of implementation according to the approved timetable. 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment necessary for the maintenance and The construction started in July 2017 and is at an advanced stage according to the approved timetable. I expect the implementation of these contracts to be within the pre-approved terms of the contract. Third activity "Design, construction and copyright supervision of the sewerage network of the town of Dobrich, as well as its accompanying plumbing network. On 4 July 2018, the Treaty was concluded, amounting to 19.2 million. lv. without VAT. The contract has completed the design. The project is co-ordinated with the institutions and is awaiting a final act of the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works under Decree No 8 of 28 July 1999 on rules and regulations for the deployment of technical conduits and facilities in the settlements. Construction and installation work is about to start. We expect the execution to be completed within the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u107	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimov, I want to thank you and we will really hope that the Water Cycle Project will be completed in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u109	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? I won't. Thank you for your participation. Today you have shown an enviable stamina during the hearing, so not only congratulations, but thanks! Have a nice day. We'll continue with the following questions. They are to Minister Krasen Kralev. Question from MP Valentin Milushev on the position of the Ministry of Youth and Sports under the Council of Europe Convention against manipulation of sports competitions. Dear Mr. Milushev, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! My question is regarding the position of the Ministry of Youth and Sports under the Council of Europe Convention against manipulation of sports competitions. Dear Minister, media publications in February reminded again about the problem of manipulating sports competitions. This is a serious global problem that covers more and more sports. Most international sports plants have developed programmes to monitor and prevent manipulation of sports competitions, but there are still enough suspicious signals in the data that companies publish to monitor betting at sports events. My question is: how does the Ministry of Youth and Sport counter this problem and what is our position on the Council of Europe Convention against manipulation of sports competitions?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milushev, maintaining the basic principles of fair play on equal terms is one of the goals that my team at the Ministry of Youth and Sports has set. Two are the main reasons to talk about corruption in sports worldwide. The use of doping and manipulation of sports competitions, or so-called match-fixing. As of 18 September 2014, Bulgaria has signed the Council of Europe Convention on the Manipulation of Sports Competitions or the so-called Macaulyn Convention. At the moment, the Convention has entered into force informally, as ratification by five countries is necessary. To date, the Convention has been ratified by three countries - Norway, Ukraine and Portugal. It must be borne in mind that Portugal is the only Member State of the European Union that has ratified the Convention. The State has begun ratification before the blocking by the Council of the European Union because of a lack of uniform opinion by all Member States. As is known, Malta opposes the McColin Convention, which is why it cannot be adopted by the European Union. Switzerland and Moldova are the other two countries in which ratification is to take place within the next few months, which will enable the formal entry into force of the Convention. However, the European Union will not be party to the Convention until it is adopted unanimously by the three pillars in its structure. The position of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is that in order to work to preserve the fairplay in sport and to preserve its principles, it is necessary for the European Union to find a way to motivate the Member States for a unanimous decision in support of the McCallin Convention. The protection of integrity in sport was among the main priorities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. We managed to bring back the problem of the blocked by the preparatory bodies of the Council of the European Union file of the Macauline Convention, after organizing three important meetings in Bulgaria with a direct focus on the early implementation of the McCallin Convention. In April 2018, two operational expert meetings were organized in Varna, one of which was co-organised with the European Commission, where the main topics were: match-fixing, the construction of national platforms to combat the manipulation of sports competitions and the establishment of cooperation between the Member States concerned. A discussion on the topic of the Macolin-based and its entry into force was on the agenda of another important event held in Sofia in June 2018. The meeting of the Director-General for Sports in the European Union. The Ministry of Youth and Sports invited the Secretary of the Council of Europe Convention on the manipulation of sports competitions to attend the meeting of the Director-General for Sports in the EU with the clear intention of uniting the efforts of all institutions in order to find a solution for unlocking the file of the Convention within the Council of the EU and to return for discussion in the Working Group of the Council of Sports. During the meeting of the Director-General for Sports in Sofia, the Member States united around the belief that the Macolin Convention should enter into force as soon as possible, as the only legally binding international treaty existing which opposes match settlement, but the path to this is to reach a consensus on a political level in the European Union. On this extremely important topic in 2018, I took part in two other key meetings: a working meeting of the sports ministers organised in Moscow, jointly by Russia and the Council of Europe on the political and legal responsibility in the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions in the implementation of the Macauline Convention, and a summit in the European Parliament in Brussels on the topic of: It is a need to act for Europe against sports manipulations, organised jointly by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe. Last year, Bulgaria joined the project "Keep crime outside the sport "of the Council of Europe. The project shall be based on the Convention and shall provide technical assistance at national level to identify and implement effective and coordinated measures to combat the manipulation of competitions on the basis of the principles of the Convention. The Ministry of Youth and Sports was co-ordinator of the Bulgarian delegation, which took part in the Project in September 2018. The delegation was formed by experts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Interior, the Bulgarian Football Union and the State Gambling Commission. I can boldly say that with these events we have taken an important step forward and are already working on the creation of a Bulgarian national platform according to art. 13 of the Convention under the authority of the IMS. Within one year we held numerous national meetings with representatives of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Interior, the Gambling Commission and the Bulgarian Football Union. The aim is to coordinate the future national platform to be taken over by law enforcement authorities, which undoubtedly play the most important role in the fight against manipulation in sport. Bulgaria will implement its national platform under the Convention by the end of 2020, currently finalising the Agreement between the National Organizations and their role in the National Platform. In conclusion, I assure you that both the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the other national institutions involved in the process of implementing the provisions of the McCallin Convention are extremely serious about its implementation in Bulgaria. We also have serious attitude on the part of the included sports federations. It is evident from the data that the Bulgarian Football Union made public in February this year that since the beginning of the work of the Early Announcement System of UEFA at questionable football matches in 2012 up to now the trend is to reduce the signals of championships that the Football Union administers. During the 2012 season 2013 these signals were around 50, in the past season 2017 - 2018 are six, and in the current season there are three. I believe that the future Presidency of the Council of the European Union will maintain the approach that we have taken with regard to the Convention, and we will achieve real results. France has already expressed strong support for the entry into force of the Macolin Convention during the French Presidency of the Council of Europe in the second semester of 2019. In order to achieve success against negative phenomena, both the joint efforts of all the national institutions for which we work hard and of all the member states of the European Union are needed. It is time to find a solution to the situation in which Europe is put and to ratify the McCallin Convention in order to move forward in the fight against fraud in sport. By keeping sport clean, we can rely not only on its healthy role but also on its great unifying and educational power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u113	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Minister Kralev, thank you for your comprehensive response and I wish you success in the fight against the fairplay in sports and in the future continue in the same spirit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? No. The next question to Minister Kralev is from the MP Mladen Shishkov on the controversial athletics infrastructure. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Athletics in Bulgaria is one of the sports with deep traditions. The queen of our sports has brought us many joys over the years: five gold Olympic medals in various disciplines; several world records, including 209 cm of the jump at the height of Stefka Kostadinova; 12.21 seconds at 100 meters with obstacles of Yordanka Donkova. There are hardly any Bulgarians who have not heard the names of Yordanka Blagoeva, Hristo Markov, Teresa Marinova, Yvet Lalova, Ginka Zagorcheva and many others. At the last summer Olympic Games in Rio 2018 athletics brought us joy again with the silver medal of Mirella Demireva. Just a few days ago, Radoslava Mavrodieva became a European champion in pushing a cannonball. We have many young prospective contestants in different disciplines. At the same time, it is no secret to anyone that much of the country's sports infrastructure is not in good condition. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what action has the Ministry of Youth and Sports taken to renovate the sports infrastructure for athletics and to ensure the normal training process of Bulgarian competitors? What are the future plans of the Ministry in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, the construction and renovation of sports infrastructure for sport for excellence as well as sport for all is a major priority for the Bulgarian government and the Ministry of Youth and Sports. As you mentioned, athletics is one of our country's traditionally strong sports. Currently we have several very promising contestants such as the Olympic medalist of the jump at the height of Mirela Demireva, the youth Olympic triple jump champion from 2018. Alexandra Nacheva, the current European champion in pushing a cannonball in Radoslava Mavrodieva Hall, the triple term Gabriela Petrova, the silver medalist from the Youth Olympic Games and the European Junior Championship Valentin Andreev, Tihomir Ivanov in the leap of height and others. This is one of the reasons why we pay special attention to the infrastructure intended for athletics. As of 2015, the Ministry of Youth and Sport has invested nearly 2.5 million under Decree No 2 on financial support for the construction and repair of sports sites and facilities. lv. in the renewal of sports facilities intended for athletics. Among the renovated sites are the covered track in Sliven, on which was built a gas installation for heating. A new track at the stadium in Haskovo and a new track at the stadium in Sandanski is being built, the repair of the gymnasium in Sports Complex Osogovo in Kyustendil is now complete. The renovation of the gym for sports athletics of Botev In mid-January this year I also launched the repair activities of the gym in Dobrich. This is the only circular track in Eastern Bulgaria for athletic sports indoors and a place of particular importance for Bulgarian athletics. The value of the repair is close to 370 thousand. BGN, construction works cover an athletic hall of 3700 sq. m. On the track, which is highly depreciated, a new surface of polyurethane will be placed. New facilities for long, triple and shepherd jump will be installed in the hall. The changing room for athletes will be renovated and will also have new equipment to push a cannonball. Serious investment in the sports infrastructure intended for athletics since 2015 has been carried out by commercial companies in which the Ministry of Youth and Sports is a principal. Under the management of the "Academica 2011" there are several major athletic sports sites. The most prominent of them is the building "Arena" which after its completion will be an extremely functional facility of great importance for the Bulgarian sport. The hall is designed as a multifunctional object offering space for practicing a wide range of sports. After its completion, the country will be able to host international athletic competitions in a gym of the highest rank of European, world championship, which is impossible at this stage for organizing athletics competitions. The capacity of the visitors is 7200 seats and so far the state has invested in the facility 53 million. $700,000. lv. In 2017 was officially opened and refurbished asix Arena. The former hall of Festivalna, in which more than 7 million were invested. lv. After the renovation the capacity of the hall was increased to 2270 seats, all seats were replaced, the most modern and quality sports equipment was installed, a complete kit of equipment for athletics, a runway with four corridors from the reputable manufacturer "Mondo" and measures for energy efficiency and insulation of the walls and the roof. Besides its main application for athletics, the hall is suitable for many other sports such as football, gymnastics, dancing, aerobics, fighting sports, fitness and others. Our next goal is the reconstruction of stadium Academic. In this way, the idea of my team for setting up an athletic center between the Asix Arena and the stadium of Academics will be realized, in which to train and conduct athletics competitions in both outdoors and in the hall. Thus the Bulgarian athletics will get a really modern and functional home. Finally, I can assure you that our efforts to renovate and build a new sports infrastructure in the country for both athletics and other sports will continue because this is the basis on which we can expect achievements from athletes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister Kralev, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive response and to congratulate you on your efforts to build the infrastructure. Because we all know that building bases not only in districts but also in municipal centers is the only way in which we could develop mass sport and, respectively, find talents that will develop in the future. So my admiration for what you achieve and make efforts, and I wish you success in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. A hole? No. Thank you, Minister Kralev, for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with the Minister of Finance Mr. Vladislav Goranov. He'll answer three questions. The first question is from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova concerning amendments and additions to the Ordinance H-18 of 13 December 2006 for registration and reporting through fiscal devices of sales in commercial sites, requirements for their management software and requirements for persons who make sales via an electronic shop. You have the floor to develop the question, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we all know that one of the main priorities of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria is the increase in budget revenues by carrying out a consistent and effective fight against tax and customs evasion. The measures in this direction also include work on improving the legal framework........................................................................................ In order to improve sales reporting and to improve control, the Ministry of Finance has made a change in the regulation, namely in the texts of Regulation No H-18 on registration and reporting through fiscal devices for sales in commercial establishments, the requirements for software for sales management and requirements for persons who make sales via an electronic shop. The main changes include sending real-time data to the NRA from all fiscal bonds issued, include printing a QR code for each fiscal bond, which will enable each citizen to verify its authenticity, introducing requirements for sales management software and introducing requirements for individuals selling through an electronic shop. Mr. Minister, business representatives disagreed with the texts of the Ordinance and concerns about the deadlines for bringing the systems into line with it, as well as with regard to the security of the information systems. In this regard, my question to you is: what exactly does the analysis and assessment that the Ministry of Finance, respectively the NRA, have done regarding the willingness of the business to comply with the new rules and what are your expectations for the effects of applying the changes to the Ordinance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, first of all, congratulate you on the Women's Day and Mother's Day for those of you who are celebrating today. Otherwise, the reference to all the changes that we have made in recent years to improve tax revenue collection is most easily measured by their 50% increase compared to the end of 2014 or nearly 14 billion more, something that goes far beyond the rate of growth of the economy, and in this sense shows that together with you we have managed to achieve good results. This reform, which we are doing when reporting sales with amendments to Regulation No. 18, is a project that is relatively ambitious and started in the middle of last year. We consulted through the National Revenue Agency up to 16 branch employers' and professional organizations related to the processes related to the introduction in accordance with the requirements of the amended regulation. The members of these organisations are traders selling nearly 100,000 jobs and approximately the same number of fiscal devices that account for sales at the outlets. The study was carried out in February this year in order to study the readiness of the business to meet within the initially foreseen deadline the end of March 2019, the requirements laid down in the Ordinance regarding fiscal devices, software for sales management in commercial sites. From the information received, the following summary can be made: 80% of respondents use sales management software at retail outlets. More than 90% of the respondents point out that they cannot comply with the deadline laid down in the Ordinance (31 March 2019), the most frequently stated reasons are: lack of the market for a sufficient number of fiscal devices; lack of readiness of manufacturers and suppliers of software to develop and supply systems that meet the new requirements; need for communication with foreign persons, software developers; need to test and train staff and not least lack of technological time to implement the new software. Along with these technical and technological issues business organizations raise issues, most generally related to guarantees for the protection of the confidentiality of information by the National Revenue Agency, guarantees for the continuity of the process due to possible difficulties in communicating with the servers of the income administration, especially in sensitive areas such as health and fuel trading, specifics of the activity carried out by electronic stores, specific cases of sales management software, parts of which are produced by multinational companies, and others. After the analysis we have done, the deadlines we propose to apply are: With regard to persons registered under the Value Added Tax Act who do not use software but report their sales only to a cash register, the deadline remains unchanged and more than 50 thousand individual cash registers have been replaced and meet the requirements of the regulations. The deadline for these companies remains the end of March. With regard to all traders, whether or not they are registered under the VAT law, but they use sales management software, we have proposed an extension of the deadline until 30 September 2019. Until then they will be able to continue to use their current fiscal devices and software, but no later than that date. We had multiple meetings with business representatives where we assured them that this was the maximum period we could afford. Traders without registration under the VAT Act retain the original deadline laid down in the amendments These amendments, and some others have been uploaded to the Ministry of Finance for public consultation with amendments to the Ordinance. What are the expectations of the Ministry of Finance and the National Revenue Agency for this change? According to quite conservative estimates, almost one billion leva is lost annually by incorrect sales and turnover. Over 330 million. lv. of them are from unpaid taxes and insurance in the so-called cashew economic sectors.... public catering establishments, bars, discotheques, retailers with food and clothing, accommodation. The remaining over 160 million. lv. are unpaid public liabilities by traders selling through electronic stores, so-called........................................................................................... One of the main priorities is increasing budget revenues and reducing the grey economy not only because of fiscal effects, but also because of improving justice in the economy and reducing unfair competition. In this sense, the measures implemented to ensure stability in the relations of registration, reporting and software management of supply and sales are part of a consistent policy on combating the grey economy in line with the government's programme 2017. The measures in this regard also include activities to improve the regulatory framework and increase the effectiveness of control regarding the concealment of sales, which is one of the manifestations of the grey economy. To increase budget revenues and lighten the shadow economy, both legislative changes and a number of administrative measures are being implemented. Specific steps in this direction have also been taken with the changes to Regulation H-18, expressed in: - sending in real-time data to the National Revenue Agency for all fiscal bonds issued, which will ensure the possibility of timely automated control over the reporting of revenue in commercial sites; - printing a QR code of each fiscal bond, which will provide an opportunity for every citizen to check its authenticity and send it to the servers of the National Revenue Agency. For this purpose it has long been developed and is available free mobile app for smartphones, anyone can install it and check any fiscal receipt; - introducing requirements for sales management software to their manufacturers and distributors, as well as traders who use them in their activities. The lack of regulation in this area was used by both traders and software manufacturers, who, in response to market requirements, provided additional functionality in their software, ensuring the evasion of sales revenue. Under the new requirements, software must manage all fiscal devices in commercial sites, limiting the possibility of withholding revenue from sales made in view of the requirements for software functionality. Here the smallest technical example that I can give is that the possibility of issuing the so-called "service bonds" which have so far masked and imitated the issuance of fiscal receipts is eliminated; - the introduction of requirements for persons selling through a sales facility an e-shop. Their owners should submit certain information to the NRA about the e-shop, part of which will be public. The National Revenue Agency will maintain a public electronic list of electronic stores. In case the electronic store uses sales management software, it must also meet the new requirements of the Ordinance. To conclude, I should point out that the results of the ongoing analyses and periodic evaluations of the prerequisites and indicators for the manifestation of the shadow economy and its impact on the amount of tax revenue in the state budget show a sustainable trend of positive change, but we are still far from averages in the European Union. In this sense, the efforts must continue. Not by accident after the meeting with the business where we announced the continuation of Ordinance H-18, I was able to quote that there are resorts with year-round action, where the average insurance income of 4- and 5-star accommodations, 4- and 5-star hotels is below BGN 500, which I consider inadequate to the real market situation and is an obvious indication of the concealment of speed and maintenance of informal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for two questions, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u126	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, even beyond the time you are due, but this is an important issue which affects an extremely large part of the Bulgarian business. I hope that through your answer they have really been answered some of their questions. The fact is that you announced an extension in both the media and now in your speech. This is also materialized by a proposal to amend Regulation H-18, uploaded to the site for public consultation, only in this part, in addition to the extension of the deadline, other changes have been recorded. I want you to answer what these changes are. In addition to the announced changes on the site will there be until the final introduction of the "You said October 2019," will there be any other changes that should happen in Regulation H-18? My second question to you concerns the protection of the secret of business data of all your clients and clients of the NRA. Through the sales management software and its requirements, the National Revenue Agency will have unlimited access to data concerning not only specific sales, but also the entire business of those who use such software. It bothers most of the business. I want here, from this tribune, and perhaps with some additional laws or regulations, to ensure that no abuse of this information is really allowed and that it will not be used for purposes other than the National Agency's checks and revisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor to answer the questions asked, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u128	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! The proposed changes mainly result from the possibility introduced by the Value Added Tax Act when selling goods or services through an electronic store, the fiscal bond registering the sale, to be generated in electronic form and to be made available at the electronic address of the recipient, without issuing such a paper. 118, para. 3 of the Value Added Tax Act. With regard to this regulation, it is proposed to introduce a functional requirement for fiscal devices to generate fiscal bonds in electronic form, which can be provided at the e-mail address of the person. The change is an opportunity for obliged persons of their choice to provide the fiscal bond electronically instead of paper. Thus, using the modern technological capabilities related to the way of communication, individuals operating through an electronic shop will be able to provide their customers with a document proving the registered sale of the purchased goods by electronic means. In the performance of art. 118, para. 19 of the Value Added Tax Act also introduces provisions which regulate the procedure for recording and deletion from the public electronic register of electronic stores and its content. The project also provides for proposals aimed at clarifying the provisions in force, as well as implementing Decision No 704 of the Council of Ministers on the adoption of measures for the transformation of the model of administrative service. Another proposal, uploaded for public discussion, is the change and introduction of additional models of fiscal business bonds for illustrative purposes, as well as the precision of the existing ones. The introduction of an electronic fiscal bond aims to ease the activity of economic operators engaged in a commercial activity on the Internet by enabling them to automatically generate and send the receipt to the buyer's e-mail address. You say that one of the concerns of the business is related to the guarantees for the protection of the confidentiality of information by the NRA. We must make the first agreement that the National Revenue Agency and currently has unlimited access to information about business processes in taxable persons and concerns that we will steal some gourmet recipe from a restaurant are mildly naive. They only show the concerns and fear of those operators who have so far allowed themselves to save some of what is due to the fissure. The National Revenue Agency, including for public control purposes for compliance with tax and insurance legislation, shall process personal data in compliance with the principles of legality, proportionality of the personal data processed and the processing of personal data for specific, precisely defined and legitimate purposes. With regard to the NRA, as a personal data administrator, there are grounds for processing personal data provided for under art. 4 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data or respectively art. 6 of Regulation 679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016. The Agency has taken the necessary technical and organisational measures to protect data from unauthorised access or dissemination, as well as other illegal forms of processing. A number of internal agencies have been issued and are implementing rules governing the operation of protected information and rules on access to the Agency's information resources. Access to the information and systems of the NRA shall be granted in accordance with the relevant rules in order to allow users to carry out their duties only. All NRA employees who have access to confidential information are required to use it only for the purpose for which it was collected. Control of compliance with the specific requirements and rules for access and handling of protected information, including personal data, shall be carried out. In detecting abuse and/or unauthorised access, actions shall be taken to realise responsibility.. disciplinary, including criminal. I do not think that the volume of information that the National Revenue Agency is currently handling, and what it will receive as additional sales data will make it so that the National Revenue Agency will have too much information or create prerequisites for abuse of it. Rather, the justified concern of economic operators, who have been tempted to hide speed so far, is that after the new Regulation has been implemented, this will be almost impossible.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u129	Thank you, dear Minister, for your answer. You have the floor to express your attitude to the answer, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answers. I am pleased that what is uploaded for public discussion as an amendment to the Ordinance is actually an improvement of the mechanism on which electronic stores will work in the future, namely: the issuance of an electronic receipt. I hope that in the next steps the electronic receipt as a form of authentication of the given sale may and should be extended to other types of businesses. Unfortunately, this is not foreseen now, but we hope that the next amendments could be developed. I know that there is currently a working group of companies developing sales management software, cash registers software with the National Revenue Agency, which also raises this issue, and an electronic receipt in electronic stores may be the test of how this form of sales registration works. As for your response to concerns about the preservation of trade secrets, of course, everyone in this House knows that the National Revenue Agency is in practice and now has unlimited access to all kinds of business data and, until now, at least, we have no clear cases of abuse. So I have no doubt that this will continue and will happen from now on. In other words, certain employees at the National Revenue Agency will have authorized access to carry out their specific tasks for risk analysis, others for carrying out checks or revisions, which is, of course, good to promote as a mechanism of work, so that business can be calmed down in its concerns and in this part.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The next question to Minister Goranov is from the MP Aleksandar Ivanov regarding the available national capacity and interest in the use of financial instruments under the ESI Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Goranov, I would like to ask you about the activities of the company established in 2015 - Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria. The Fund has been operating for several years now, with the initial idea of having a long-term institutional investor on the market to consolidate the financial instruments of the operational programmes, to multiply the public resources provided by mobilising a private one, and to help include the private sector with expertise in the investment process. This way of managing the financial instruments that our country has adopted is regulated in both European and national regulations. Mr. Minister, although there is enough publicity and the issue of the absorption of European funds is a priority, there are still attitudes in society that EU funds are provided in the form of grants. Therefore, I think it is good that you answer my question, namely: to what extent has the company since the beginning of its work been able to develop national capacity and increase the interest in using the financial instruments? I also ask you to answer the question: what part of the funds allocated to it are agreed and available to final recipients?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is important for Bulgaria to continue successfully implementing the financial instruments by building on national capacity and expertise in this area. As you rightly quoted, in 2015, we created a company called the Fund Manager of Financial Instruments, through which the financial instruments are implemented through a single Fund Fund. It covers investment related to innovation and entrepreneurship, start-up, small and medium-sized enterprises, energy efficiency, environment, urban development and tourism development related to national cultural heritage. The main advantage of the structure is the ability to multiply the provided public resource by mobilizing private capital and further expertise. When implementing the financial instruments, we are looking for a balance and an appropriate formula to combine their advantages with those of the grant, where national authorities have an enhanced role. At this time, the Fund is a fully operational structure with a national capacity for managing financial instruments. The funds provided for for this programming period shall be awarded in accordance with the objectives of the company's operational programmes and business plan. The capacity already built and the experience gained in this area are of great importance for the next programming period, when the financial instruments will take on an important, even higher role in Europe's budget. Status of financial instruments. The Fund shall manage funds under four operational programmes of the ESI Funds amounting to 1 billion. 234 million. lv.: Operational Programme "Human Resources Development"..................................................................................................... lv.; under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" "459,6 million." lv.; under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ lv.; under Operational Programme "Environment".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv. Separately, in February 2018, the Fund took over a mandate to manage reinvest funds under the JESSICA initiative from a programme period of 57,8 million. BGN, with which the total resource responsibility of the Fund amounts to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes The Fund has currently negotiated and made 676,8 million available on the market. lv. or more than half of the funds he manages. By the middle of this year, which is practically the middle of the programming period, due to the n+3 rule, procedures will be completed to award nearly 101 million more. BGN, thus agreed funds from the resource under the mandate of the Fund will exceed 60%. In support of micro and social enterprises in different industries, 3.4 million are already available on the market. leva. The funds support the establishment and development of start-ups, including those owned by vulnerable groups. A new public resource of 26.4 million lv. on the same initiative, it is to be granted within the second quarter of the year. Two important instruments supporting infrastructure development in Bulgaria are also now available to the final recipients. These are urban development funds that cover 39 areas and five times more funds compared to the previous programming period. The value of public funds is 353.3 million. BGN and private financing to final recipients are expected to reach 600 million through mobilization. lv. The instrument covers two financial products: risk-sharing financing and portfolio guarantees. The beneficiaries are public and private organizations and public-private partnerships with projects in the field of urban development, energy efficiency and cultural and historical heritage. The other infrastructure financial instrument is aimed at the water sector and was created to invest in water operators in Bulgaria. It is worth 224,9 million. lv. and mobilise funds of the same amount by the selected intermediary. The support takes the form of long-term loans, as well as guarantees for commercial banks providing loans to water companies. This funding is intended to complement the grant from the Operational Programme "Environment". The financial intermediary is the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as an international financial institution with experience in infrastructure projects. The funds are available to the currently consolidated water service operators. The Fund Fund supports entrepreneurship in Bulgaria through investment funds with a common public resource of 222,7 million. lv. It can be used by innovative and high-tech companies at different stages of their development. The funds are granted in the form of equity and quasi-equity. Three new venture investment funds have already been allocated to support the development of innovative companies. By the end of this year, two more funds will be launched, aimed again at companies with great growth potential. These investments meet the needs of the entrepreneurial community at a time when it needs a new resource to stimulate the start-up environment. In addition to what has been listed so far, this year the Fund is about to launch guarantee products, the Technology Transfer Fund and financial instrument in the sector. At the moment, my assessment of the work is more than satisfactory, given the high level of complexity, the diverse legal basis and the need to build a higher national financial culture for using the instruments as an alternative to grants, given the results achieved, the efficient management of public funds, the mobilisation of a significant private resource and the establishment of professional expertise at national level. The Fund is actively working on the objectives set.. Partnerships and models are being developed, which are already being set as a successful example at European level. In December 2018, in Brussels, at an international event of the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, experts from the Fund presented the Urban Development Fund as an example of good practice in structuring financial instruments in Europe. In February 2019, again in Brussels, the cooperation of the Fund for Funds and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was also honoured at a forum for European Investment in Infrastructure. The interest in the announced procedures. The Fund's main task in structuring financial products is to meet the needs of the market and the objectives set in the operational programmes. In view of this, the company conducts market tests for each financial instrument, which include a wide range of stakeholders, including banks, financial institutions, investment funds, companies, municipalities, NGOs, professional organizations, and others. To date, interviews have been conducted with more than 200 professionals from over 100 organizations whose feedback has been taken into account in the design of financial instruments. The selection procedures for financial intermediaries shall be conducted under the Public Procurement Act and, as such, shall be available for participation and transparent. There is an interest in the announced procedures by both financial intermediaries and final recipients. It is expressed in 59 requests for participation in the six announced procedures so far and is proof of the market-oriented approach in the work of the Fund Fund. Candidates include highly qualified financial intermediaries with rich local and international experience. At the same time, the instruments offered by the Fund have increased interest from the target groups of final recipients. For example, through the micro-credit product focused on start-ups of vulnerable individuals and social enterprises, 73 projects have already been supported. These facts, which I have set out so far, clearly show the results of the Fund's work. In view of the experience gained and the national expertise developed, the structure has the capacity to upgrade what has been achieved so far and we are analysing the increase in the role of the Fund for the next programming period.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister Goranov, thank you for your comprehensive answer, but I will use my right to an additional question, namely: what efforts and are they put in for the prerequisites for the combined use of financial schemes and instruments, i.e. the combination of financial instruments with other financing schemes in relation to the needs of the company itself, and the users of these funds respectively? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u138	Very interesting question, Mr. Ivanov. The opportunities for combined funding are outlined as a new practice at European Union level during the current programming period 2014 - 2020. The Commission has developed detailed guidelines on the implementation of this possibility, on the basis of which Member States build capacity and gain experience. It shall apply in principle where the benefits exceed the additional complexity that can be created from the point of view of the final recipients. Creating financial instruments and grants. The Urban Development Fund is an instrument funded by the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" which enables the combination of grants with a financial instrument on a project basis. The Urban Development Fund provides long-term, low-interest loans with built-in guarantees for the use of financially viable projects that contribute to the sustainable urban development of local communities and investment in real-estate cultural heritage sites of national and global importance. The financial instrument for the development of the water sector is financed under Priority Axis 1 The instrument aims to complement the free funding from the Programme of qualifying projects in the water sector by providing additional financial resources for the investments of consolidated water operators. The combination of two types of financial instruments has the following history: on 13 December 2016 in Luxembourg, the Ministry of Finance, representing the Republic of Bulgaria, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the European Investment Bank. The purpose of the Memorandum is to lay down a framework for joint cooperation in the field of financial instruments and national support for the provision of information services and advice to final recipients. The European Investment Advisory Centre has been set up under the Investment Plan for Europe to contribute to improving the technical and financial capacity of public institutions and private undertakings in the Member States in identifying, prioritizing, structuring, aggregation and implementation of strategic projects. The launch of cooperation between the Centre and the Fund Support Unit established within Bulgaria aims to facilitate access to the above services and thus contribute to the expansion of the set of services available at the same time and their use. As a result of the activities of the unit, opportunities are created for faster and successful implementation of investment projects in Bulgaria, including opportunities for combined funding from the European Structural and Investment Funds 2014-2020 and the European Fund for Strategic Investments, better known as the Juncker Plan. This unit plays the role of a Bulgarian advisory platform with a focus on developing capacity at regional and local level.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u139	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor to express your attitude to the answer, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister Goranov, thank you for the comprehensive answer to the question, as well as the guidelines you have given, namely how combined funding is used. I would like to note the importance of the Fund in the first part of your response when you noted that it has and distributes funds of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes It is pointless to say that its importance will be even greater and I expect to allocate greater funds in the next programming period, because now the current 2014 - 2020 budget of Bulgaria from the European Union is 14.6 million. As we know, by the next programming period, the European Union's budget towards Bulgaria will be 18 billion, so indeed the importance of the funds that will manage the company will be even greater. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. And the third question to Minister Goranov is from the National Representative Evgenia Angelova on the implementation of the Republic of Bulgaria's intention to join the Currency-Course Mechanism - ERM II, and the Banking Union. You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Goranov, one of the main priorities of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria is the country's accession to the Currency Mechanism II and to the Banking Union. This commitment was made on 29 June 2018 by your joint letter with Mr. Dimitar Radev, the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, which stated the country's intention to apply simultaneously to the Currency-Course Mechanism and the Banking Union, the latter being carried out by establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank within the meaning of Regulation No 1024 of 2013, with a view to the participation of a party in the Single Supervisory Mechanism. These intentions are enshrined in an action plan approved by the Government, including measures in policy areas such as the banking and non-banking financial sector, a bankruptcy framework and the fight against money laundering, and the management of state-owned enterprises. The Bulgarian institutions should implement the measures in these areas by the end of June 2019 with a view to fulfilling their commitments for simultaneous accession to the Currency-Course Mechanism (ERM II) and to the Banking Union. Minister, in relation to the above, please provide information on the ongoing implementation of the measures set out in the Government Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Angelova, as you rightly pointed out, at the end of June 2018 upon request in the first days of 2018 on the occasion of the launch of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union by Bulgaria the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank sent a letter to the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank, the countries of the euro area and Denmark, and the European Commission, in which we stated the country's intention to apply simultaneously to ERM and the Banking Union, the latter being carried out by establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank with a view to the participation of the country in the Single Supervisory Mechanism. In the context of the stated intention, the government has prepared and adopted an Action Plan involving measures on the various policy areas. The measures cover harmonisation of the legal framework for the structure and operation of the Bulgarian National Bank with the requirements of European Union legislation, as well as strengthening the framework of supervision in the banking and non-banking financial sector. In addition, improving the macro-cyclical framework and the bankruptcy framework, strengthening the framework for combating money laundering and upgrading the governance framework for state-owned enterprises, and not least ratifying the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. What we have achieved since then in relation to the commitments made. With regard to the 1st measure, it relates to changes in legislation, including with regard to the powers of the European Central Bank in the period of close cooperation. On 13 December 2018, the National Assembly adopted a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The amendments and additions have achieved full harmonisation of the legal framework for the structure and activity of BNB with the requirements of European Union legislation and in particular: full compliance with the requirements for institutional and functional independence of BNB, full compliance with the requirements for prohibition of monetary financing and privileged access, as well as full compliance with the obligation to protect professional secrecy. The same bill adopted amendments and additions to the BNB Act, which govern the role of the European Central Bank in the national framework for supervision of credit institutions and its powers in the period of close cooperation. It is envisaged that the BNB will comply with the guidelines and requirements issued by the European Central Bank under Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013, including those issued by the European Central Bank under Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013, with the necessary administrative acts starting from the date of the close cooperation. As regards the preparation for accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries has been drawn up, laying down provisions for the establishment of uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the restructuring of credit institutions and certain investment firms under the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund. We are planning to finalise the work and approve it by the Council of Ministers and offer it to you around the middle of this month. Currently it is in the process of carrying out an overall assessment of six Bulgarian banks. The review of asset quality and stress testing is based on the methodologies that banking supervision in the European Central Bank applies in its regular overall assessments of banks with an up-to-date classification as significant or with the possibility of becoming significant. These results must be published in July 2019. With regard to the Macropridential supervision, the second of the measures is filled with the amendments adopted by the National Assembly at the end of December in the Credit Institutions Act. They introduced macro-pridential instruments to enable the imposition of a system level of requirements for borrowers. Under the third measure, the Financial Supervision Commission adopted amendments to Regulation No 9 of 2003 on the method and procedure for assessing the assets and liabilities of supplementary pension funds, the pension insurance company, the value of the fund's net assets, the calculation and declaration of the value of one share and the requirements for the holding of individual accounts, in particular in November 2018. In 2018, a Management Manual on the application of supervision based on the risk to the activities of pension insurance companies and their pension funds was established and established. It contains several indicators and procedures related to the model of supplementary pension insurance in the Republic of Bulgaria, which are also used by the System of Criteria for Categorisation of Insurance Companies according to their level of risk and systematic importance, as well as by the Guidelines of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority on the supervisory review process related to the implementation of the Directive. As regards the need to update the regulatory framework in the field of insurance supervision in December last year, the FSC adopted a supplement to Decree No 53 of 2016 on the requirements for the reporting, valuation of assets and liabilities and the formation of technical reserves of insurers, re-insurances and guarantee fund in relation to the accounts of insurers under International Accounting Standards for the valuation of the assets and liabilities of insurers and re-insurers, further developing the requirements for the valuation of certain hard-term asset values and introducing professional experience requirements of the independent valuer of the immovable property held by insurers and re-insurers, as well as the methods used for their valuation. The methodology for the validation of annual quantitative data under Regulation No 35 of 2015 on the reporting of the insurance undertakings under the Directive is also updated with procedures that auditors will have to carry out with regard to the valuation of hard-determined assets when carrying out a check on the balance sheet of insurers and re-insurers. The fourth measure is the bankruptcy framework. The Ministry of Justice shall implement a joint project with the European Commission's Structural Reform Support Office and the Supreme Judicial Council. The project is implemented according to the planned timetable and is currently under preparation a framework report on insolvency and stabilisation in order to determine the scope of intervention in relation to the next Report with recommendations on insolvency and stabilisation. In addition to the activities envisaged under the measure, the National Institute of Justice shall develop a self-training resource, a manual of the judicial procedures for stabilisation and insolvency proceedings under the authority of judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. With regard to the framework for combating money laundering, an interdepartmental working group has been established to address potential problems in transposing the fourth Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council to prevent the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as the fifth directive in the same context. In mid-January 2019 Bulgaria sent comments to the Commission in response to its assessment of compliance and at the beginning of February 2019 a reply was also provided to the Commission's further reasoned opinion and Bulgaria committed to sending additional information at the end of March on the same reasoned opinion. Both responses contain specific commitments to make legislative changes in relation to the introduction of the fourth directive on measures against money laundering and terrorist financing. After receiving answers from the Commission, the Bulgarian institutions finalised the bill with which it was submitted to MPs who are involved in the matter of money laundering and are expected to start the process of consideration in the National Assembly as soon as possible. Meanwhile, progress has also been seen on the introduction of the fifth directive on measures against money laundering and terrorist financing. The legislative texts shall be finally agreed within the interdepartmental working group, working on the updating of the table of compliance with European Union law in this area. There is a finalisation of the overall bill and its sending for inter-agency and public discussion. The latter measure is a modernization of the governance framework for state-owned enterprises in accordance with good international practices. We are implementing a joint project with the Reform Support Office and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to review and evaluate the legislative, regulatory and functional framework. This project is moving according to the deadlines, with six out of eleven of the stages being implemented. As a final result of the project, we are expected to have a draft law on the management of state-owned enterprises complying with good OECD standards. The formal call for proposals for ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund was implemented and the National Assembly ratified the Agreement in the autumn of 2018 and will apply after Bulgaria's accession to close cooperation with the European Central Bank on banking supervision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for two supplementary questions, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u146	Thank you, Minister Goranov, for the clear, concrete, comprehensive, careful response. In relation to the topic, my additional questions are: are we ready for the Eurozone and how will it affect the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy? And secondly, but not least: is there any reasonable, logical concern at all, waiting for an increase in inflation, such as claims sometimes appear in public space?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u148	I am sure that you know this answer, but in view of the increased public interest, I think it is good to comment on it. The adoption of the euro is not a unilateral desire of Bulgaria, it is the obligation of the Bulgarian State resulting from the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, and there is no specific deadline for implementation in the legal act. However, it should be noted that entry into the currency mechanism is a political decision and also depends on the Member States' tendency to expand the euro area. We have been in constant standby mode for more than 20 years with the introduction of the Monetary Council regime and the fixing of the exchange rate to the euro, i.e. the establishment of the Currency Board, our economy absorbs to a great extent the policy of the European Central Bank, as well as the positive and negative effects of Bulgaria's participation and future membership in the Eurozone. To become part of the Eurozone, the country should meet certain criteria that are defined in the Maastricht Treaty. From the point of view of our country's readiness to join the Eurozone, we cover four of the five technical criteria: inflation, budget deficit, government debt and long-term interest rate. This has been found in the convergence reports of the European Central Bank and of the Commission since 2014, 2016 and 2018. By joining ERM II we will fulfil the fifth criterion, which for Bulgaria, given the mechanism of functioning of a fixed exchange rate against the euro, is rather perceived as a formal act. It should be borne in mind that for 22 years the Monetary Council in Bulgaria is functioning successfully. The fulfilment of this criterion should not constitute a problem. In this sense the government and the Bulgarian National Bank express their commitment to the adoption of the country in the Eurozone the fixed rate regime should not be changed and Bulgaria's entry into the Eurozone should be made at a rate of BGN 1,95583 for euros. The Bulgarian economy is more competitive after its entry into the European Union and more integrated into the media European market. In these 12 years after our accession there is a clear trend of an increase in Bulgarian exports in imports of the European Union, which is an indicator of increasing competitiveness. Our country is very well integrated in terms of exports of goods to the European Union to gross domestic product. In the case of exports of services to the European Union, the share is again higher than that of the European Union, on average. There is also a long-term process of convergence of income per capita to the average level. The process is driven by the high rate of increase in productivity in Bulgaria compared to the average rate for the European Union, and in Bulgaria there is an increase in labour productivity as well as the overall factor of productivity. As a result of the integration process, the Bulgarian economy increased the dependence on the economic development of the Union and the Eurozone in terms of external demand. Money transfers and compensations with a source of the European Union make up over 2% of GDP, which is an indicator that a large number of Bulgarians work in the countries of the European Union. The expectations are that both accession to the European Union has had a positive impact on growth and joining the Eurozone will have an impact on increasing competitiveness. Two words on inflation. In countries where they have joined in recent years, either no increase in inflation from the adoption of the euro at all, or the inflation effect is minimal and does not exceed 0,3 percentage points, as a major contribution to such an increase in prices comes from rounding prices by sellers. Even in the worst case, inflation, as a result of the transition to the euro, is much less than 1%. However, it should be borne in mind that most studies show a relatively stronger inflation effect on certain services: private and domestic services, establishments and others, which means that households and individuals who use these services can, to a greater extent, individually feel inflation at a higher level. In general, natural processes for increasing wealth and income in the economy will inevitably lead to an increase in prices. Because when a worker in the bakery receives not 300 BGN, as was the minimum salary at the end of 2014, but receives 560 BGN, it is normal to carry those higher labour costs into the price of the final product and, respectively, be carried over to the entire cost chain. So the richer we get, the more prices will grow.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u149	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for expressing respect for the answers of Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u150	Once again, thank you for the comprehensive and accurate answers to the questions. It is obvious from them that the government is working actively and very consistently to meet its commitments and to achieve the objectives and priorities set. It is extremely important that what you said in your answers, because Bulgarian citizens need to know exactly how things stand so that they are not misled by the so-called false news and to have full information, to be able to be calm in what is coming, and it is that the euro is a proven currency, a currency that even celebrates this year's jubilee, a currency that is stable, and Bulgaria, adopting the euro, should develop more positively and go in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u151	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Thank you, Minister Goranov, for participating in parliamentary control and for the extremely detailed answers. Three questions to one minister on parliamentary control day is not a common practice today. You were extremely detailed. Thank you again. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev has four questions for him. The first of them is from the National Representative Tanya Petrova on improving the status of the Bulgarian teacher. Dear Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! The topic of education is related to development and therefore also to the future. Everyone who went through education and tried to double the knowledge that received the support not only of the school but also of their parents is the successful young person. This successful young man tomorrow makes his contribution to the development of the economy, social security, to raising the living level and combating unemployment. In recent decades there has been a change in expectations of what the Bulgarian school can give. The children of the 21st century are more dynamic, more critical, more direct to defend their desires, self-control is more difficult. The 21st century family rearranges values, parents are increasingly anxious and unprepared to fulfill their educational role. That's why the role of teachers is becoming more important now. Dear Minister, what activities and measures does the Ministry of Education and Science envisage and conduct to increase the status of the Bulgarian teacher in the educational institutions in the territory of our country?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u153	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I'd like to take this opportunity to wish all the women a happy holiday! Regarding the matter. Teachers are the main factor in the education system. They were, and they will continue to be the main factor in the education system. To the greatest extent, the teachers, the motivated good teachers, depend on the quality of education. The best educational systems are those who have invested most in teachers, in countries where the best students have participated in pedagogical education and then in a pedagogical profession. That is why we have taken this positive budgetary and political decision to invest in teachers, to double the remuneration. This, of course, is just one of the measures. The additional increase in 2021 compared to 2017 of teachers' remuneration funds will be over 1 billion. 370 million. BGN, and this is very large in terms of the perimeter of budgetary redistribution. Each budget is largely designated historically, there is a relatively small perimeter in which costs can be increased. From this point of view, this is a very large amount, such as a budgetary commitment, and teachers, on the other hand, are the largest professional group. A good school is mostly a good teacher. Teachers are the ones we rely on, as you said, not only for education, but also for the upbringing of children. Today, we place much more expectations on the education system, both in terms of education and in terms of education, given all that you have listed. Motivation, of course, does not depend only on remuneration. They are a very important factor in the long term. We can now say that we have positive signals that there has been an increase in motivation for both people who have acquired teacher's competence, to return to the system and to involve in pedagogical education, in raising interest in the pedagogical profession at all. It is important that each teacher is encouraged to feel public support, support from the system, support from the school concerned. In the school in question, the principal's role is the lead. It is important to have a good environment for work, it is important to have mentoring, which is also an opportunity to help new teachers and at the same time there is an opportunity to share the experience gained. In this way, we can motivate professional improvement and career development. It's important that teachers have the support of society, of parents. What we do as parents is leave our children to people we don't know. We leave what's most precious to these people and we must support them. The biggest mistake is to tell children that they shouldn't trust teachers. We should be partners with the teachers on this important mission. If we have this trust between educational institutions and families, then teachers will feel supported. That's what we're trying to have as a public conversation, and that's why I'm using this case every single moment to appeal. Of course, teachers need to make the most of their efforts to justify that trust. They need to be reactive, they need to be communicative. Schools should provide all necessary information to parents and constantly gain their trust. It is also necessary to have opportunities for career development that the Law on pre-school and school education and the Regulation on pedagogical specialists in general provide. A very important part of the development is the possibility of permanent qualification. We finance qualification on several lines through the budgets of educational institutions. You know 1.2% of the remuneration funds each year should be separated from the budgets of educational institutions for qualification. Apart from that, we have a Project on Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" amounting to 16 million. lv. We are financing a national qualification programme every year, which is proposed to be at 850 thousand in this year. lv. We are also launching an additional national programme called "Motivated Teachers." It aims to provide specialists in disciplines with the greatest expected shortage, including through funding of training for the acquisition of pedagogical qualifications. There is also a second module, the aim of which is to prepare, to select the best teachers for work in the multicultural environment. Something like a kind of corps of teachers who have to deal with this most difficult work, the most significant challenge for children in the districts to be effectively involved in the educational process. That's where we have the biggest problem. The third module is for active teachers and creating conditions for obtaining additional qualifications. Where children are few, mostly in small rural schools, there can be no norm for teaching work, teachers to reconcile different disciplines, of course, close to each other. From the point of view of providing support, although this support is very often provided by the regional centre when it comes to resource support, it is not enough as time to spend with children. It is very often necessary for the teacher at school to make additional efforts. All of this will be funded by this additional programme. Activities aimed at pedagogical specialists will also be available in other programs. The programme that we will finance is the Internships of the teachers in IT companies and also the project "Education of tomorrow" where we will finance qualification, on the one hand, for the use of information technologies in class and, on the other hand, for the creation of electronic educational resources and payment of teachers who create them. The most important thing is with the support of the system to encourage teachers to provoke interest, to seek out methods that will mostly provoke children to learn. Therefore, the system should be refocused on not being so much on the document, whether the teacher has strictly respected the thematic distribution, whether he has gone through all the topics, not to feel obliged, bound by the textbook, but to have greater freedom to achieve the objectives set out in the curriculum, greater freedom regarding the choice of teaching methods. This suggests that it should be supported, that this culture should be universal, that it should be supported by the Director, by the officials in regional governments, that it would feel as a clear signal from the Ministry of Education. So this support from the system is also very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u155	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It has become clear from your exhibition that there are extremely good practices and policies aimed at creating a public attitude for respect for the Bulgarian teacher. Undoubtedly, the teacher's work is the most important in the public domain. We know that at the moment in many towns and schools there is a shortage of highly qualified teachers, of primary teachers for educating students, of teachers in kindergartens. I am convinced that what you have detailed as measures, such as policies of the Ministry of Education and Science, will stimulate the desire and motivation of young people to become teachers in a modern Bulgarian school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u157	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. The next issue is again from the MP Tanya Petrova to Minister Valchev and is on funding secondary education for 2020 - 2021. Come again, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I ask the question, you will allow me, as it is related to a financial framework of the system of education for the period 2020 - 2021, to say that education continues to be a leading priority for the government. Education funds for this year with a source of state budget are nearly 450 million. lv. more than the previous year. The political commitment to increase the remuneration of teachers is being fulfilled, with wages increased on average by 20% from January this year and the start salary of a teacher is already BGN 920. For the first time in the budget are provided for this year, 25 million. lv. for financing interest activities that are available to over 700 000 students in Bulgarian schools. There are also more funds allocated to the budget - 30 million in total. BGN, for working with children and students from vulnerable groups. In order to ensure quality vocational education and training in line with labour market needs, 1.6 million. lv. are awarded for scholarships to students from vocational schools and classes. In order to provide transport for children and students, including bus maintenance, over 43 million are provided for this year. BGN, which is 4 million. lv. more than the previous year. An additional 8 million. lv. are provided for better quality of snacks provided to the children in the preparatory groups and to the youngest students from I to IV grade. For scholarships for high educational results, 3 million are granted to schools. lv. About 90 million. lv. are set in the budget for implementation of various measures to reduce the share of early leaving the education system, providing a modern educational environment and access to information technologies, improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists and training of Bulgarians abroad. As regards higher education, due to the expected shortage of specialists in the specialties, which are less attractive to date, an exemption from payment of training fees is envisaged and 2 million are granted for this measure. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. to support the education of students and PhD students. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. are provided for in the next year budget for financing the next stage of implementation of the sites which are included in the National roadmap for scientific infrastructure. I can still continue the list of these figures for 2019, but given the weather, I would like to ask Mr. Valchev: what are the main priorities in the budget framework for funding secondary education for 2020? 2021?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u159	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Petrova, you have listed a large part of the activities that have received additional funding with the 2018 budget. Later I will add some more. Perhaps what we should also say in relation to the previous question is that the increase in these funds is thanks to the positive economic situation and the increased collection rate of the proceeds for 40% in the last five years is the growth of the gross domestic product, which allows this to happen. Although nominal growth, this is accompanied by low inflation, we have a high real growth. On the other hand, revenues have increased by 50%, which, apart from the increased tax insurance base, is the result of increased collection. All this allows the realization of these policies. Undoubtedly, there is one priority raised: these are the fees of teachers. As I said earlier, teachers are the most important factor and, to the greatest extent, with investments in teachers, we can count on improving the quality of education. We've had 900 million in the last two years. lv. growth of education funds. We add something every year. 10 years ago, the funding of the full - time organization was only 36 million. Today we are offering nearly 170 million for the full - time organization of the school day. The financing of interest activities started, we restored the financing of extracurricular pedagogical centres for personal development support. We have changed the formula by not allowing a reduction, but only on the principle of increase, so we have provided additional funds under equal conditions to smaller schools and kindergartens, to municipalities that are smaller and more remote, to schools and kindergartens with concentration of children from vulnerable groups, as you mentioned, which is always intended to compensate for inequalities in access, inequalities in the ability to attract good teachers. We increase the funds every year, add funds and support each year. Last year 7 million for psychologists and pedagogical advisors, this year some 6.5 million were added. We've increased two percent in addition to the increase in remuneration, the standard of high school education, we're adjusting the formula. Basically, we're trying to do a constant analysis, see where the systemic deficiency is. Last year, we found that we had a systemic shortage of funding at a high school and therefore we made this additional increase of 2%. We are now doing analyses again in connection with the implementation of the obligation to increase remuneration. We see that the average obesity has fallen in kindergartens and it makes their budgets difficult. Next year we will make sure there is an additional increase in funds for kindergartens. Perhaps by this I should have started that the budget for each year is made mainly in two stages: one is a medium-term budget forecast which reflects the main policies; the second stage is the draft budget itself when all policies are reflected. At the mid-term budgetary forecast stage, we have a wage increase policy at stake, including an increase in the total minimum wage, which affects non-pedagogical staff in the education system. In the autumn, when the budget is being made, in a good conjuncture, if possible to provide additional funds, I hope that we can implement several more policies, including where we have found that there are systemic problems, as last year with the high school stage. Now perhaps a further increase in kindergarten standards will be needed. Our intention for the next year is to finance to a greater extent the centers for supporting personal development. A very important element, perhaps the second most important after teachers, is the material base. We have an unprecedented amount of resources to improve the material base. Only under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and the Rural Development Programme we have nearly 700 million for nearly 500 educational institutions. This is, of course, not enough. The educational institutions are 4,000 and many more schools and kindergartens need it. Municipal budgets also finance much of the measures to improve the material and technical base. We have put as a priority and transition to a single-mode, so we hope to have targeted funds, including building or building new schools. It is important that what we find is that the schools also have more means of modernisation, which is not necessarily related to modernisation of the material and technical base. This can be the realization of innovation, it can be the hiring of an additional specialist. Basically, such modernization, which is related to improving teaching methods, methods that are more stimulating to children's interest in learning, but in many cases this is related to the material base. We see that where there are stand centers where there are improved study offices in mathematics and natural sciences, the students' interest in learning is greatly increased. I hope that around this measure in the coming years we will have consensus, given also the challenge that in mathematics and natural sciences we have the most problematic results and to the greatest extent we need to provoke children's interests in order to secure specialties in the system of vocational, higher education, which require a deeper study of mathematics and natural sciences. Last year, we were able to finance all schools to buy school lockers for all students from I through VII grade another measure. All the schools we financed for the construction of Wi-Fi networks have not yet built them, but probably by the end of the year they will. So we can say that all schools will have local Wi-Fi networks, not just Wi-Fi networks such as routers networks, but with the corresponding firewalls, networks with secure internet space. I hope that with the EU funds we have started with the preparation of the project the platform with electronic educational content and interest activities in the field of computer modeling from the first grade. I may not have been able to mention everything, but these are just some of the measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Minister Valchev, I understand that an answer to such a large-scale question cannot be put in the regulated time, but the numbers that are important and which I note.. which you said that thanks to 40% increase in gross domestic product and 50% increase in revenues Ministry of Education and Science, the government of the Republic of Bulgaria adds something to the budget for education every year and this is extremely good news in the first part of 2019. It's good to think about increasing the standards for kindergartens. In my meetings with directors of mathematical high schools they point to a problem and the standard for profiled schools is probably good to think about in this direction. We are all aware that the transition to a single mode is a long process that also has its financial dimensions. I hope that in time there will be funds for this transition. It is extremely important what the Ministry does to improve the physical environment in Bulgarian schools, because innovation and digitalization of education is done only in a modern educational environment that teachers and parents and students dream of. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u163	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. We continue with a question to Minister Valchev from the National Representative Elena Aksieva on the measures of the Ministry to cross the invasion of gender ideology in Bulgarian schools. You have a question to ask, Mrs. Axieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u164	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister Valchev! These days we witnessed another poll among the Bulgarian students, which led them to determine gender. Their children and teachers had to fill out a question about what they were, with the possible answers being a four-year-old girl, a boy, another, or I'd rather not say. The signal for the scandalous consultation came through the media from the director of Sofia's 31st SCHEM Nadezhda Nikolcheva. It is about the European Commission's electronic survey, which appreciates the digital skills of students and teachers. The SELFIE programme (Self-assessment of effective training by promoting the use of innovative educational technologies) started at the end of last year in Bulgaria. And in this regard, my questions are: who is responsible for the admission and distribution of this survey in Bulgarian schools and will he bear responsibility? What measures will you take to prevent this type of material being distributed in schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u165	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Axieva, first of all, I would like to say that you and I are generally of the same opinion on the subject. I agree, firstly, that the school must educate and must be an environment that is relatively protected from adverse educational impacts and controversial educational doctrines. Secondly, we must not allow the preaching or entry of any form of ideology related to self-determination of gender. I've said it many times before, never once said the opposite, voted or did anything else. Moreover, as you said, we have a constitutional solution. I refrain from using the term "jender" as it is also related to the gender equality policy that we have all adopted and supported. Thirdly, we need to be suspicious and cautious, as attempts and forms to impose ideology related to gender definition can be the most diverse and unexpected. What I do not agree with alone is to define SELFIE as an instrument aimed at imposing gender ideology on us. This is not a question or a self-determination poll, but our question of self-assessment of the digital preparation of schools. In it, two of the 90 questions are statistical and for the purposes of analysis, the rest are technical. This is what the European Commission said in public -- the European Commission -- does not aim at self-determination of gender or the imposition of doctrines, the instrument has the same questions for all member states, and the reason why there is such an option are exceptions in the laws of some countries. In Germany, for example, last year, the Bundestag decided in the documents for the children to have another option, but not on the basis of self-determination, but on the basis of certified medical reasons. Similar options for registration can be found in large email servers, platforms or networks. I'm not saying I accept it, but I'm not inclined to exaggerate its impact on the children's value system. When we talked to people in the system, we realized that it was more likely that no one paid attention to him, and where they noticed him, it didn't have much impact on the psyche of the students. Evidence of this is the fact that no signal has been received at the Ministry of Education, including Ms. Nikolcheva. Once again, I stress that I do not accept this possible answer, so we asked for the dropping of the question about Bulgaria and we have told the schools to temporarily not use the instrument. For me and for the education system this case is a useful opportunity to talk about the educational function of educational institutions. If the answer to the SELFIE question has attracted once the attention of a relatively small number of children in a few seconds, then education in the educational system is daily, hourly, every minute activity in relation to each child for many years. In general, at least 14 years of compulsory pre-school education and 12 years of school education. Children will sooner or later realize that they live in a world where there are other different cultures, relationships, legal systems, and how they will react to them will depend, not on whether we have managed to ban them, but on how we have raised them to perceive them. We can't ban them, it would mean censoring and banning the Internet, media, electronic games and so on. That is why we have developed a Project Strategy for the educational work, which aims to have a debate on what and how we want to educate children in school and identify measures to improve the educational function. And one more thing, schools find projection of all the negative impacts of our surroundings, but they don't generate them, on the contrary, schools are institutions that generally have the most beneficial educational impact and we shouldn't blame them, something that we do even by focusing attention or connecting the problem only with them. It is the same with the system of violence at school children are together, aggression manifests, but the sources are different. If we want to educate and moralize, let's talk about movies, shows, websites, electronic games and so on. Particularly on your issues of responsibility a single employee in the Ministry is registered in the platform and has not identified the potential problem. According to her explanation, she didn't see it, and I'm guessing that even if she saw it, she didn't think it would cause a problem. I refrain from holding her responsible for the fact that she is an IT specialist and generally a good employee, that this is not a matter of self-determination, because at the same time a personal tragedy has befallen her. Regarding the measures we have instructed all employees in the Ministry, we have prepared a letter to regional governments and educational institutions to react and not allow the distribution of materials and the conduct of activities with negative educational influence. We will focus on issues related to self-determination of gender and obscene sexual content, but also those who preach violence, intolerance, promote direct or indirect use of alcohol, opiates or smoking and so on. The education system is large and, as the brochure for anonymous consulting offices shows, attempts to distribute materials can also be directly to schools. I am convinced that also the public debate, which, by the way, is currently under way, also contributes to developing this sensitivity and reactiveness at all levels of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Axieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u168	Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that we agree on the main topics. As for the specific poll and what you said caused little negative influence on the children, at all, that people almost did not notice it, I do not think so. The very fact that Deputy Minister Denitsa Sacheva had reported in the media that in many of the answers the children wrote a dog, cat, Martian and so on. This means that they have actually noticed this question. As you yourself said, this is not a poll where gender should be determined, but actually about digital skills that concern schools and students, and that is precisely why I do not think such a question has a place there. As you have said, it is also for each state to decide whether or not to admit it to its legislation and, as we know here in Bulgaria, the Constitutional Court has ruled that no such ideology should actually be allowed. Given the public attitudes, our Bulgarian family traditions and values, I believe that such gaps are unacceptable. We from the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers are demanding stricter control and monitoring of all the materials that descend to the schools. About the measures, I'm sure you'll take them. As an example, the projects that have been won by the various NGOs or European programmes can be reviewed in advance, and a revision of the materials and for the future six months, respectively, so that similar errors are not made. The other thing that can be done is seminars for both employees and school directors to be trained at, respectively, on what to pay attention to in the processing of such kind of documents. This, too, we think would prevent such gaps. Our opinion is that we absolutely should not allow the secret entry of such surveys, brochures, and other materials that are harmful to both us and to all parents, and teachers, I suppose, to our children and to their mental development. I hope that from now on there will be this strict control over the materials that reach our children, as well as the people who are responsible for their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u169	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. We continue with the next question to Minister Valchev. He is from the National Representative Krastina Taskova and is about the closing of a class in the Financial and Economic High School of Vasil Levski in the town of Dobrich. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues Axieva and Ivanov I can name you by name because there are only three of us in the Chamber! Dear Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that from the Regional Management of Education I am convinced that this does not only apply to the city of Dobrich, but I direct your attention to this case, because for us are illogical arguments that have been put forward by the Regional Education Management, that fewer children are expected to apply, or even less this year as a set. I believe that it should, first of all, be held the reception and not be artificially directed children to other schools and, if there are candidates, the class should not be closed, and if there is not, naturally, it is the most logical solution. However, I would like to stress to you that this is a school that has a very high rating in the city and always makes 100% acceptance of its classes. A similar closure of this class, in our opinion, deprives Dobrich of highly qualified staff in the field of tax and customs administration. I will draw your attention to the fact that for a very short period of time there is also an organized protest petition, in which at this time more than 500 parents, students, teachers and people from the public in Dobrich have signed, who insist and ask for your decision to leave the tax and customs administration class. And as we know, the government, part of which you are, has not once complied with people's demands, and I hope that your final decision will be such that you give the children in Dobrich a chance to choose where to apply and have the opportunity to train for specialists in economic specialties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u171	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Taskova, the reception plan is one of our main policy instruments, however it is not centralized, determined at local or regional level. Here the principled question that you have asked and suggested should first be held the reception and, if there are no willing ones, then let's close down to the desire of the parents, the demand for education. Yes, but if we do this, it means giving up any policy to link education to the needs of the labour market and society. We have two markets - one is the market for education, the other is the labour market, which, however, have their own logic and different demand. It is normal for the parent, who most often guides his child career, to assist him in deciding where to study, to want to give his child the best to send him to the best school, very often with the intention of continuing in the system of higher education. What has happened in recent years in the absence of a clearly defined policy for linking education to the needs of the labour market, that technical vocational schools have virtually covered themselves. That's how it's always happened, and our reception is filled out in technical professional high schools. The language school in Dobrich, for example, preserved the reception, although the children declined significantly. In those high schools where there is a search for education, the reception was preserved. This, however, has led to the deletion of technical specialties, of technical professional directions in vocational schools. We have a reduction in Dobrich. In 2015 the students from the 7th grade were 1497, and in this school year we have a permanent downward trend, which means that we either have to approve of all the wishes, or we have to undertake some pre-depreciation policy. On the other hand, our analysis shows that if the reception of this mechanism of discussion and coordination with employers and with the regional development council is respected, to a greater extent bet on vocational education, the technical vocational schools retain more people in both the country and regions. The fact is that vocational education retains more people in the country and in the regions. I'm making a point here that maybe financial and business schools aren't exactly an example of this. Perhaps much of these students will continue to study higher economic or other education afterwards. There's a lot of factors. You said people's demands, but we still have to be responsible for the collective interest. Looking from the point of view of high school, you're right, but we shouldn't be looking at the tree, we should be looking at the forest. Our collective interest is to be more involved with the needs of the economy, including the local economy, the needs of society. That is why such decisions are sometimes needed. Somewhere on a student discount, a class will fall, the question is where. In recent years, these schools that I have listed you have been relatively protected. This year is offered a reduction in Language High School, Middle School Pancho Slaveykov, Professional High School of Transport, Service and Light Industry. The total number of proposed classes for Dobrich is 36. We must also bear in mind the material base, which is also a factor in decision making, the policy of switching to a single mode. In the limited building fund of the school where students are trained are distributed 20 classes and 12 classrooms, which was also a factor for decision making. In other words, the available material base does not allow the implementation of a single mode. We have findings of oversaturation with economic and legal personnel in the labour market and lack of personnel from other professional directions. Not only should the argument of the head of regional management be heard, the arguments of both business and the District Employment Council should be heard, which also gives an opinion on the reception plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. From your answer I understand that you are clearly adamant that you will close this specialty, but I am convinced that this is a specialty more desirable than women as economists. They cannot be transferred to any other schools you expect to do in Dobrich, we will rather lose these children and they will go to school in Shumen or in Varna, where they are closest to them. That's one thing. However, on the other hand, as a whole, the approach of banning and limiting, I think it is extremely incorrect because everyone has the right to education in Bulgaria as he decides and wants to develop as skills. Do so with your colleague, the Minister of Economy, that these personnel, who the business wants to produce the state for him, make attractive payments and the children themselves wish to study these specialties, and not to limit currently attractive specialties that have 100% admission to redirect children who want to become economists, should become tractors. It's just illogical, it doesn't make any sense, or even become technically educated. They may not have these skills, we must give them a chance to be realized, and already in higher education let the state pay as many government orders to students as necessary for business and all others to be paid for education. I think it's unacceptable, but once again, I'm counting on it not to be your final decision. You just answered to colleague Tanya Petrova that we should all support the teacher together, society should support the teacher, students and parents should also support the teacher in raising his prestige. This case is exactly such a case, the public supports teachers, the children support teachers and the parents support them. It remains, as you said, and the system must support them, and in this case the system is you, to support these teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u175	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u176	Thank you. What you said about the higher education system is from 2016. The amendment to the Law on Higher Education allows us to make a reception and to conduct a policy for binding the admission for higher schools with the transfer of the labour market. What happened in 2016? In 2016, we financed the demand for higher education. What led to this lack of search in engineering and technical specialties, expected dramatic shortage of engineering personnel, including in sectors where national security or other security elements will be threatened, example water engineers with regard to the management of dams, energy and so on. At the same time, the irrational demand for higher education grew in the professional fields of social, economic and legal sciences. As a result of this year's policy, we can take into account that by nearly 70% the admission in the professional field will be reduced, a reduction of 60% in the professional field of economics, "Psychology" and "Psychology," political sciences and public communications. The admission will also be reduced to a significant extent. No one expects to go to a technical professional high school, but there are also a number of other profiled high schools and what we are trying to do to a greater extent is to direct them to profiles related to mathematics and natural sciences and even humanitarian profiles. Unfortunately, we, even in the humanities, are talking about philology and history, we have a shortage of students and specialists. Most likely these are students in this high school who will continue in the system of higher education. There's no way to forbid it. The primary problem is the reduction of students. When there's a reduction in students, there's a reduction in classes. There'll be a reduction in classes somewhere, there'll be a decrease in the number of teachers. If we don't get a student discount, we won't have that problem. Where we do not have a reduction in students, even if there is a restructuring of the reception, we have told the heads of regional governments to provide priority in the places of teachers in other schools where there is an increase in the number of classes. As for attractive pay, the pay becomes attractive. Currently, the biggest shortage is where there is the least demand for education. With the greatest shortage of specialists, according to the purely market rule, we have the highest increase in remuneration. In the rating system it can be seen that these professional directions, which are related to a thorough study of mathematics and natural sciences, are those with the greatest growth and the greatest expected growth. These are engineering-technical professional directions, these are medical, these are computer sciences. I'm not sure we have enough rational choices from this point of view. Three years ago, we did some research. It showed that parents do not see enough full opportunities for life and labor realization only with vocational education. Yeah, that's right. The same can be seen in the rating system that, in general, students who are involved in technical and engineering professional directions are relatively lower than external evaluation results, from the outcome of a high school stage, which also speaks of low attractiveness, on the other hand, have the highest income. So we don't have a mandatory information link between the two things. Again: somewhere should be reduced the intake. In this case, I don't dare or defend the decision on a regional level, I respect it. I'm not saying it's the best, but it still has to comply with the local specifics. In the long term, if we do not make more children stay in the regions, this problem will multiply.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-08.u177	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. This ended the questions to Minister Krasimir Valchev. The next regular plenary session shall be on 13 March 2019 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
