ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, since there was one point left yesterday that we could not look at, I would like to suggest that after the hearing of the Minister of Health, we should vote on a point on the "Projects of decisions on changes in permanent and temporary committees and a delegation of the National Assembly." Please vote to make this a second point after the Minister's hearing. Vote 183 MPs: 172, no objection, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Messages: An updated audit work programme of the Court of Auditors for 2019 has been received by the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly as amended. The programme was submitted by letter No 924-00-21 from the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute "Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes for November 2019." The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's continue with: HEARING THE MINISTER OF HEALTH KIRYL ANANIUM. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev about stopping an emergency reception at the Children's Hospital. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to be included as the first item for Thursday in the National Assembly Programme for the period 18 December 2019 Colleagues, you have the floor to justify the cause of the hearing. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. You have five minutes to introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the cause of our request for a hearing is the death of three-year-old Alexander and the forensic expertise for this. The reasons are the systemic problems in Bulgarian healthcare, marking a negative trend. First of all, the lack of communication and consistency in the activities of the individual structural units in health care, the emergency care, outpatient and hospital care, between the various multiprofile and specialized hospitals. All of this has also been reflected in the specific case when the child goes through three hospitals without direction from his personal physician. A case like this represents the brightest rebuttal of these health apologists, who at the beginning of the transition believed that privatization was the panacea and would form a market for medical services that would form all relations in healthcare. Turns out that can't happen. Who authorized for one and a half years the emergency care in Sofia not to transport sick from one hospital to another when they in most cases need a reanimobile? How many hospitals in Sofia own a reanimobile and how did our health ministry allow this to happen only after the child's death? As a major achievement, it was announced to the media that the metropolitan emergency assistance would transport sick children if needed between the three hospitals designated for this. Like that's not her primary duty? Our healthcare system urgently needs the main coordinating role of the Ministry of Health, and not only is it in the role of an accident examiner and controlling financial discipline. Secondly, it is obvious that our health ministry is infirm to deal with the personnel problems. The intensive care unit in the only public Bulgarian pediatric hospital stopped its activity due to the lack of two doctors. Who let that happen? A hospital with the highest level of competence, third level, closes its most important ward in which children's life is saved, and directs children to other hospitals. Thus, precious time is wasted, which can have irreparable consequences. And in the end, is the operation of a hospital of this rank permissible without an intensive care unit? The answer is absolutely no! And the Health Department can't provide two emergency doctors. It's just, uh, dear colleagues, I can't believe it. But it's a trend. We all remember how the district hospital in Tarnovo closed the Department of Ears, Nasal and Throat. The patients were targeted at Gabrovo and Gorna Oryahovitsa. The maternity ward in Svishtov was closed. The parents had to travel almost 90 km to Veliko Tarnovo. The maternity ward in Teteven was closed. Parents must travel to Troyan or Lovech between 60 and 70 km. All this we have to say that there have never been so many doctors in Bulgaria. We are very interested here in the opinion of the Ministry of Health when a few months ago another medical school was allowed to be opened in Burgas. And the problem is simply the need for an optimal system for the specialization of these doctors. Let's not forget about the nurses - a compound that continues to wait for the solution of its main problems, fair pay, improvement of working conditions and professional motivation. Third, the question of retribution. Retribution was introduced as a term by the Prime Minister. But who's waiting for retribution? Didn't the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health point out as possible culprits for what happened at the death of three-year-old Alexander, two doctors and three hospital directors and they were suspended from work. But forensics says otherwise. Who will compensate for social and social pressure on these doctors? Will they be able to heal peacefully? No. This question is very important. And all the questions we are asking you, Mr. Minister, are expected with interest from the health and not just from our health community, and we hope that you will proceed responsibly to your response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, you have 10 minutes to inform the National Assembly of the issues that are the subject of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Health conducts state health policy on the basis of the National Health Strategy and the government's management programme for the period 2017 - 2021. The National Health Strategy is an integrated document for the development of the healthcare system in Bulgaria, which covers the full complex of actions in the field of health care while creating conditions for the achievement of the national strategic objectives set out in the National Development Programme. The National Health Strategy is a starting point for developing and implementing health policy at all levels. The national health strategy is the foundation on which the policy in the sector is built. Children's health is one of the main priorities of the strategy, such as improving the main indicators in this area and bringing it closer to the European averages are drawn up as national targets. This is an expression of the adopted National Programme for the Improvement of Education and Children's Health 2014-2020. The state of pediatric assistance is subject to special attention in the section of the government's programme. For this reason, the government, respectively the Ministry of Health, regularly provide additional funding for activities related to improving child health. In recent years, the state of pediatric assistance is unsatisfactory, both with regard to outpatient and hospital care. The reasons for this are multifactory and complex, the most important is the lack of the National Multiprofile University Children's Hospital. The link between general practitioners and paediatric clinics and wards in hospitals is torn and ineffective. The assessment of the prices of clinical pathways in the field of pediatric aid is a serious factor in the minor interest of young doctors to acquire a specialty in pediatrics. Unfortunately, on November 14, 2019 the tragic incident with three-year-old Alex occurred. I immediately ordered urgent inquiries to be carried out on the case in the three hospitals that are directly related to the case. The Children's Hospital, Lozenets Hospital and Pirogov Hospital by the competent administrative authorities. The D.A.'s office is also on the case. The necessary organization was created so that no child would remain without being given full medical attention and care in due time. An immediate meeting was held with the heads of state institutions and the Emergency Medical Center in Sofia. A coordination mechanism has been established which regulates the admission of children in urgent cases, as well as when bringing children from one hospital to another. Pirogov Hospital took the commitment to ensure the emergency reception of children in Sofia and, if necessary, outside the capital, the Ministry of Health will assist the medical institution to provide the necessary material base. In this connection, the consulting assistance of pediatricians from other institutions will be used under the profile of a number of narrow pediatric specialities such as.... Children's endocrinology........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The administrative capacity of the National Cardiology Hospital in Cardiology and the urgency and intensive treatment in this area as well as of the Alexandrovska Hospital in the field of pulmonary will be used to the maximum extent. With regard to the Specialized Children's Hospital, in addition to the administrative audit and the control to be carried out to improve the organizational and administrative activities, opportunities are sought to ensure a 24-hour presence of at least two anesthesiologists for the needs of the intensive care unit in the Specialized Hospital. On 17 December 2019 a change was introduced in the order for registration of the flow of patients at the hospital, all registered in a registration journal marking the time of arrival on the territory of the hospital and receiving the order number. Planned patients receive a white-color number and the red-red-equipped emergency, giving them priority on a call in a reception office. A study of the technical and financial possibilities for the introduction of an automated ticket system is forthcoming. Actions will be taken to convert the reception cabinet for scheduled patients of the consultative-diagnostic block on the territory of the hospital subsidiary, the Medical Center for Children's Diseases, and thus a definitive separation of the flow of scheduled patients from that of emergency patients, and the reception cabinet located there will remain for emergency patients only. At the same time, using the period when the intensive care unit at the Clinic of pneumaticology will not function, there will be an ongoing repair, which it needs with the help of the state, sponsors and volunteers. In order to carry out the construction and repair activities, the intensive care unit at the Clinic of pneumaticology has to start its normal work as of January 20, 2020. During this period, as I said before a little while ago, the children in need of intensive treatment will be directed to the admissions of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment and Emergency Medicine, Pirogov, the National Cardiology Hospital, Alexandrovska Hospital, for which contracts have been concluded between the two medical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u5	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, you know, by procedure, each parliamentary group is entitled to two questions. We start with the parliamentary group of GERB. Here's a first question, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u6	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Today we will discuss an extremely important problem, namely the ordered administrative check at the Specialized Children's Hospital and its results. A lot of words have been said in the last two weeks. There have been extremely many attacks on our fellow doctors who are day and night caring for the health of the people in the case of our children the future of Bulgaria. Here from this high tribune we should also note that we are in debt to society, because for so many years three attempts were made to build a children's hospital that would function, which would give a complete care for our population. I think it is extremely important that today we hear a credible piece of information from the inspection to stop any speculation in society about whether our doctors have any guilt. So, Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you, please give us the exact information about the inspection carried out at the Specialized Children's Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u8	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Ivanov! A check was carried out at the medical institution by the Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry on financial, technical and personnel security. The verification has established the following. Financial security. By 9 months of 2019 an increase in revenue was realised by 21.98 per cent compared to the same period last year, while, however, there was an increase in expenditure by 19.62 per cent. The hospital's revenue for the 9 months of 2019 amounts to 5 million. 739 thousand. BGN, of which the largest share represents the revenues from the sale of services 4 million. 792,000. BGN, of which 4 million 175,000. lv. They're NHIF. Revenue from central supply of consumables BGN 559 thousand financed by the Ministry of Health. BGN, and other revenue lv. The total cost of 9 months of 2019 amounted to 5 million. 810,000. BGN, the largest share of which covers the cost of salaries and salaries of the staff, not according to the labour force. 2 million. 814 thousand. lv. or 48,43% of the costs, the costs of materials 43,000. lv. or 17.95%. It should be noted that as of 30 September 2019 the hospital has no overdue debts. At this stage, the company can, with its available short-term assets, cover all its short-term liabilities. Technical security. In the hospital in operation is equipment with an acquisition value of 4 million. Nine hundred and 472 BGN, and funds for additional capital investments will be provided if necessary to cover the urgent needs of the medical establishment. It's a cover-up. According to the hospital's official schedules, 292 staff were revealed and as of 1 January 2019 there were 248 staff employed, the newly assigned staff were 31 and the released staff were 35. It is found that in clinics and wards there are 26 unoccupied numbers, of which one doctor, 24 nurses and one technologist. There are reports of termination of employment with two doctors, pediatricians and two anesthesiologists. In relation to the unoccupied staff, it is recommended that the management of the medical establishment take immediate action to attract specialists. Today, these talks are being held in order to overcome this crisis as quickly as possible. To solve the problem of the shortage of the required number of medical professionals different options will be sought in order to optimally operate all units in the medical establishment to ensure accessible and quality health services of the population. In this regard, it should be noted that on 30 September 2019 the average gross salary of the staff of the Children's Hospital Prof. Ivan Mitev is BGN 1225, reported for 2018. The increase is 23,24%. The increase in the average gross salary in medical professionals is 7.68%, while in doctors with a specialty of 26.4%. By categories of staff it is the same as follows: doctors with specialty Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u9	Thank you, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u10	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u11	Go ahead, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u12	Dear Madam President, Mr. Ananiev, dear Associate Professor Ivanov! I don't know if anyone in the room understood what you were asked by Professor Ivanov, but I understood it very well. He asked you to carry out, if possible, although I think it is not possible, since there is investigative action on this issue, information about the fatal case in the National Pediatric Hospital. Not to mention the gross salary, the employed numbers. I'm terribly surprised that an intelligent man like you may not have heard what he asked you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u13	You didn't get it. This is for the administrative inspection.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u14	I understood it very well. If he thinks I didn't understand, let him become colleague Ivanov and share it here in the Chamber. But he asked you specifically about the investigation and I went during your reply and asked him. And I'm asking you to clarify that question. Otherwise, we talk like we're on different planets at all, Minister. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Second question from the BSP parliamentary group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u16	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will start again with the fact that at the end of November the entire public was shocked by the death of a 3-year-old boy who died following a tour of three capital hospitals. Then, after an emotional speech by the Prime Minister, where instead of justice and justice, the word was used, the word "Requirement" was used............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Ivan Mitev. in Sofia. As a result, the intensive care unit of the Pediatric Hospital remained without the necessary minimum anesthesiologists and was limited in the use of emergencies. In your words, you have ordered a check-up of the hospital, and I quote: to determine what kind of footage is needed, what is the lack of and what kind of specialists and if there are problems with the equipment and with the equipment. Again, according to you, the inspection was due to be completed by January 5th, and now we understand that this will be by January 20th and I hope that there will be the necessary number of anesthesiologists in order to resume the work properly and to restore the emergency reception. Dear Minister, I use your presence in the response room because a few days ago, after a meeting with the Prime Minister with the protesters nurses, there was an opposition of health care professionals against doctors on the occasion of wages. I'm sorry, but this is insane! These are the people whose team activity we entrust our most valuable and this is our health to our loved ones, to every Bulgarian, to the entire nation. And you can't, and you shouldn't, for several dozens, say, hundreds of self-loathing insolences who thought that our health and our lives belong to them, to Satanize and corrupt an entire community!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u17	The question, Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u18	It is because of such traders that I say this without quotes, we need a reform of the sector. Because health and trade, hospitals and trading companies are incompatible concepts. And now as the principal of public hospitals: don't you think that the issue of remuneration can be resolved by you by adopting the wage regulation in public and municipal hospitals to determine the minimum remuneration for healthcare establishments engaged in this type and only after that to allocate additional premiums? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think you're all convinced that at least the Minister of Health will want to have tensions in the health system. It is natural that teamwork is the main way to work in a hospital. The respect between the individual participants, the individual health care professionals must be there, and in all respects between them in the healing process. As Minister of Health, I am doing my best to have a dialogue with all medical authorities, with all medical professionals, so that the necessary organization can be created, to give the best quality and volume of medical activity to the Bulgarian citizens. I am not a supporter of opposition to individual medical facilities and not only in them. With regard to wages, that was actually the question. By this time you know that there has been a mechanism established by me for the formation of staff costs in medical institutions and their distribution between the various specialties of doctors, health professionals, health care professionals and health care professionals and non-medical staff. The second legal act, it is not a legal act, but the second collective employment contract, which regulated the initial levels of salaries in medical institutions, also gave certain initial salaries for doctors, health professionals and health care professionals. The particular thing about the Collective Labour Contract is that these levels are not mandatory, but recommended for achieving in a two-year period of time. After the talks with nurses and other healthcare professionals, and doctors, of course, we felt that this issue should be regulated in the National Framework Treaty in order to have the sustainability of receiving remuneration over the course of the year. The National Framework Treaty, which we will sign with the Bulgarian Medical Union on Monday, provides for a level of staff costs within the framework of the total revenue received by the medical institution, and then from these already staff costs there is a ratio between what the doctor, the health care professional and the orderly will receive. So this will give a prior security, predictability in the formation of staff costs in medical institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u21	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the DPS. Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u22	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We understand the meaning of this debate as an attempt to make lessons, to make decisions regarding the functioning of the health system. However, it is difficult to understand exactly what the objective is, because according to the statements of colleagues on the left, who submitted the request for this hearing, they want a wider debate on the problems of the whole system, while colleagues from GERB are trying to concentrate on the topic with Alexander, three years old, which unfortunately is an emancipation of the problems in the health system. That is why we believe that the problems are so serious and this case is only the tip of the iceberg of systemic problems in the health system. The clichés answer that there is a strategy that there is a government programme, that there are solutions that are being worked on will not help to draw these conclusions, Mr. Minister. Because strategies may have, a program may have, but there is no single information system. If he had an electronic health card, it would be clear where the child went, what was written, who examined him, what time he examined him. If there was a single information system that became almost legendary already, it would be clear who might be responsible. Other problems have also outlined the desire to oppose the medical community of patients in order to partially solve some problem, albeit instantaneously and with a short-term effect, only that long-term damage is much more serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u23	Time, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u24	That is why we want to return the conversation to the direction: what is the situation at the moment with intensive beds and the work of the structure at the Children's Hospital; what happened after the two colleagues left, and how far did it go? Pirogov has no potential to take on children with such infections, because there the intensive care unit is determined and is prepared to work only with children who have experienced trauma cases. We want an answer to the question: what happened to the intensive care unit at the hospital, whether it will function and when?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Jaffer, I think in my initial statement I answered that question. There are currently negotiations for two anesthesiologists to provide the team that needs to work to operate the Intensive Sector, so by January 20th, when the renovation will be completed. You know that the public has come up with information that this hospital also needs repairs, and we are currently doing this renovation, and on January 20th we believe that the Intensive Sector will start working in the capacity in which its activity is approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. From the group of the United Patriarchs? Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I would like to make a small retrospective of what the state has done in recent years for mother and child health, and some not bad things have been done. First, let me remind you that the state provides health for all children by the age of 18. In some of the European countries, children are provided by working parents and health contributions have been made in Bulgaria for many years since this system exists, these health contributions are paid by the state. The other important thing that happened a few years ago in children's health care is that under the National Health Insurance Fund, personal doctors can give unlimited number of directions for pediatricians. This was introduced a few years ago. I don't remember exactly what year it was, but it makes it easier for personal doctors to send children who have serious problems to a specialist without duty, which is also important because you know how many other activities are currently limited today in Bulgaria. I can tell as part of the majority what has been done under our government and as prices of clinical pathways in the last two or three years. When this government began to function, the price of one birth is the clinical path No. 5, which concerns the Caesarean section, was only BGN 580. With the three budgets that we have already voted on, for the next calendar year the price will increase somewhere around 950 BGN, i.e. this is about 40%. This enables better funding for hospitals that carry out this activity. In particular the birth, in the situation we have been in for years, in a demographic crisis. My question to the Minister is as follows: what is the implementation of the Ministry's Educational and Children's Health Program Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Popovski, the National Programme for the Improvement of Motherhood and Childhood Health 2014 - 2020 aims to provide complex measures to improve the care and medical care of at-risk pregnant women, mothers and children with chronic diseases and disabilities, including premature ones. The Programme shall finance activities that build on the activities provided under health insurance and for which funding is not provided from other sources but have a significant health effect related to early diagnosis and complex treatment of certain diseases. The real implementation of activities under the Programme started in September 2015. For the implementation of activities under the Programme, the Ministry of Health has concluded contracts with university and specialized hospitals, district, municipal and private multiprofile hospitals; 31 health consulting centres for mother and child health in all district cities and in certain university hospitals, in which doctors, psychologists and social workers provide advisory and logistical actions related to the organization of complex medical supervision of children with disabilities and chronic diseases, pregnant with increased medical risk, pregnancy pathology or the presence of chronic diseases and disabilities. The program introduced mass neonatal auditory screening for newborns for early detection and timely intervention in hearing impairment. It is conducted in all hospital care facilities with exposed maternity and neonatal structures. In 2016, the scope of neonatal screening was 80% and in 2017, 2018 and 2019 reached 87% of all newborns. From the beginning of the Programme until now, the Ministry of Health has financed activities under the Programme of a total of 12 million. 182 thousand. 722 BGN for: 33 920 medical consultations and home visits; 77 646 studies in the framework of biochemical screening for pregnant women; 7369 medical-social plans for children with chronic diseases; 208 266 studies in the framework of neonatal auditory screening. In 2020, sustainability is ensured under the budget of the Ministry of Health to finance the activities of this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. From WALK? We won't have a question. Moving on to the second round of questions. From GERB? Here you go, Mr. Tonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This spring we witnessed the protest actions of the medics from the National Children's Hospital. Dr. Ivan Mitev. Both you and Mrs. Women Nacheva, Chairman of the NHIF Supervision, met with the protesters, the medics were accepted in May and by the Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov. Minister, would you let us know what was agreed at these meetings and what has been done so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tonchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tonchev, Ministry of Health together with the management of the Specialized Children's Hospital held several meetings to solve the problems faced by pediatrics. One of the commitments that has been made and fulfilled is the commitment of the state to finance, with Decree No 121 of the Council of Ministers dated 16 May 2019 the government of the Republic of Bulgaria granted 2 million funds. 200,000. lv. to finance activities under the National Programme for the Improvement of Mother and Child Health, sustainability of the provided funding is also ensured. As a result, the specialized children's hospital received an additional amount of 1 million in 2019. $700,000. lv. The government has granted a million. $250,000. lv. for the purchase of medical equipment, breathing resuscitation apparatus and kitchens for the needs of pediatric hospital care in order to improve neonatal activity and shorten hospital stay. Public procurement contracts for this equipment are to be concluded. With the Annex to the National Framework Treaty from 2018, from 1 July 2019 the prices of 32 clinical pathways in neonatology and pediatrics have been increased from 20% to 30%, as well as the separation of 41 clinical pathways due to the proposal to increase the prices of clinical pathways for individuals aged up to 18 years, performed in clinics and pediatric wards. As a result of this increase from July to December, the Children's Hospital received over 700 thousand. lv. additional revenue for carrying out medical activities. A commitment was made for this medical facility not to be restricted at the level of wards and clinics for the number of beds where patients are admitted, unlike all other hospitals on the territory of the country. This rule is regulated in principle in the National Framework Treaty, but an exception has been made for this medical establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u35	Thank you, dear Minister. The BSP Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u36	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm taking procedure because I don't know where I'm at and what? The question is: a hearing of the Minister regarding the suspension of emergency reception at the Children's Hospital. It was not a meeting with the Prime Minister, it was not a grant. I don't know, do they write these things to you? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u37	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u38	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u39	Madam President, do not allow such answers in this Chamber. There are questions, there is a hearing on the procedures and on our rules. It is requested by the MPs, and therefore the ministers are obliged to deal with this thing and to respond to what we ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u40	The ministers are responding to you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u41	I'm sorry if that's an answer to you, Mrs. Daritkova, it's not for us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u42	The minister answers the exact questions asked, Mrs. Anastasova, I'm following this. Come in for a question, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Have you heard of a private pediatric hospital? You haven't heard, and at least I don't know if there is one. You'll answer yourself why there's no private pediatric hospital. Since this is about funding, what are the funds? Besides financing the system, there must be an organization. You noted in your statement that the main links between the individual elements of the entire system have been violated: personal doctors with emergency care; emergency care with hospital; personal doctors with hospitals, patients from hospital to hospital are being moved. In the Ministry's financial report, there was one file that reminded me that 90 million were spent to transfer patients from one hospital to another hospital. And what are the results?! They're tragic, Mr. Minister, tragic! Since you said that one of the main problems that will solve the problem of child care is the construction of the Children's Pediatric Clinic, I will first take you back. I cannot understand that one renovation is the reason for stopping the activities of an entire national clinic, as well as the lack of two anesthesiologists in the 20th century in Bulgaria. What is the state of the other intensive compartments in the country? Can you imagine?! Will repair improve the quality and effectiveness of the work of a hospital?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u44	The question, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u45	If it's gonna be the hospital with gold tile, but if it's not the subjective factor, it's not gonna happen. I need to ask you a question: firstly, do you have a vision as to what will be this Children's Pediatric Hospital that you will build................... is it going to be a children's Pyrogov, or will it be a modern multi-profile pediatric hospital? [[Comments from GERB and DPS.]] Yeah, I made a lapsus. The other, are there deadlines regarding its construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Timchev, by my decision of 9 July 2019 was announced a contract for the selection of a contractor for the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital. Before the public procurement was announced, a new constructive survey of the existing construction was carried out. The same found that the building could be completed after carrying out construction reconstruction activities. An assessment of the seismic security of the construction was made and compliance with the regulations in force at the time of the investigation. After the announcement of the contract, the Commission for Protection of Competition received a complaint from the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria. The main thesis of the Chamber is that the announcement of a public procurement should be preceded by a competition for the preparation of a project. Here I should point out that the appeal of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria was rejected by both the Commission for Protection of Competition and the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to point out that a preferred European practice is large public infrastructure projects to be built according to the so-called engineering example: the opera in Hamburg, the most modern infrastructure projects in Germany, highways in Austria. This has proven to be cheaper due to the fact that companies can optimize technological solutions in compliance with internationally recognised standards and the requirements of the contracting entity. At a public meeting of 16 October 2019 and in the presence of representatives of the media three tenders submitted under the contract were opened. At present, the committee appointed by me is examining and evaluating the submitted offers. The commission is expected to finalise its work by mid-January and to offer me a participant to be elected contractor for the construction of the National Multiprofile Children's Hospital. In the course of the public procurement procedure in the Ministry of Health, many questions were received from various institutions and civil associations, which were answered in due course. Everyone interested was given the opportunity to become acquainted on the spot with the available documents and expertise from the investigation carried out. The National Multiprofile Children's Hospital will be located in the region of Alexandrovska Hospital. In close proximity to Maichin Dom, not far from the South Park, with very good communication accessibility to public transport, including the subway. In two main 11-story housings, six three-storey and two basements will be built an emergency room, consultative diagnostic block with day centre, operating block, cardiosurgery and cardiologic resuscitation, surgical and therapeutic intensive sector, surgical wards, specialized paediatric clinics, clinic of neonatology and clinical laboratories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u48	Thank you, dear Minister. The DPS Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u49	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Responding to the call of colleagues to return to the subject of the hearing, I will try to refer precisely to the subject, and it is: stopping the emergency reception at the Children's Hospital. Mr. Minister, from what we've heard so far, it has become clear that the emergency reception at the Children's Hospital has been stopped because you are currently negotiating with two anesthesiologists and because there is a renovation at the intensive clinic of the Children's Hospital. Based on this question from the hearing, I will try to summarize things nationwide from the point of view of providing medical facilities with anesthesiological and resuscitation assistance. If memory serves me right, the anesthesiologists in Bulgaria are somewhere around 1600, with a smaller part of them without a recognised specialty. In order for medical institutions to absorb financial resources from the National Health Insurance Fund to provide intensive assistance, the desire of all directors of medical institutions is to reveal intensive wards. On the other hand, in order to reveal intensive compartments, they must meet the relevant standards and cover the levels of competence. That is, on the one hand, the number of anesthesiologists is insufficient, and on the other hand, there is a strong desire of the directors of the medical institutions to cover emergency aid, including revealing intensive wards. From this point of view, I am trying to ask the question, which I think is extremely important: what is the state policy, so that medical institutions can, especially in small regions, in remote regions, not experience such a screaming need for anesthesiologists and resuscitators, because this is one of the specialties without which there is virtually no contract for much of the clinical pathways? And next, Dear Minister, if we have reached this point, the Minister of Health is not specifically referring to you, but whoever he is, to negotiate the appointment of two anesthesiologists in an intensive care unit, it means that things are extremely serious. In this sense, I would like to formulate my question: what is the state policy, including what are the results of the recent changes to Regulation No 1 to cover the deficit specialties with doctors in the various specialties?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, according to the annual reports from the regional health data, stability and a tendency for a smooth increase in the number of pediatrician doctors exercising their specialty from 1499 in 2012 to 1695 in 2019. In 2019, a pediatrician had 779 children. The insurance of the population with pediatric specialists on average for the country is 2.42 per 10,000. The highest insurance in the districts of Varna is 5,03 per thousand, Targovishte The difference in the insurance of the population with pediatric specialists between the different districts is nearly five times. Since 2009 the specialty of Pediatrics has acquired 265 doctors. The number of pediatric students who have not yet completed their studies is 154, of which 23 are admitted to a state examination in the December session of 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u52	How many are the anesthesiologists?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u53	I'll also be responsible for the anesthesiologists, so rest assured, Dr. Jaffer. It's a more general picture here because it's about complex treatment. The number of pediatricians should be taken into account in the context of the demographic state of the country's population as a whole. According to data from the National Statistical Institute in 2018, the process of population reduction and ageing continues, the imbalance in the territorial distribution of the population is deepening, the number of live births and the ratio of total birth rate. Specialization in pediatrics shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down for the clinical specialities. In general, on the basis of a contract of employment with a training base. The specialization of doctors who work in a medical facility, which is not a training base, is carried out on the basis of a contract between their employer and the training base. The last amendment of July 2019 to Ordinance No 1 of 2015 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system introduced the possibility for the State to pay subsidies to training bases for residents who are trained in places financed by the State. In this way, the state policy of providing medical professionals is being conducted without being at the expense of the budget of the training facilities. Here I would like to say that one of our main priorities, which we will finance in Regulation No 1, is for anesthesiologists. They are a priority and have the highest number in our funding proposal next year. For 2020, a total of 25 locations financed by the state, in the pediatric specialities and 40 places in general medicine have been established. General practitioners perform the main promotional-prophylactic and diagnostic activities for children. For these places, the Ministry of Health will pay a subsidy on the basis of training and fees for the theoretical training of the university. In addition, the Ministry of Health also pays the fees for the training of pediatric students training under the repealed Ordinance No 34 of 2006 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system. In this way, the Ministry of Health conducts a policy of supporting training to acquire a specialty of Pediatrics by willing doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u54	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the United Patriarchs? I can't see. A question from the Bulgarian Rhodolists will not be asked. Moving on to attitude. Mrs. Daritkova, please come in for treatment within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u55	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my attitude, I will comment initially on the procedure and then comment on the meaning of this hearing. Dear colleagues! All of you who had a claim to the procedure in today's hearing were extremely incorrect about the way in which, on the one hand, you presented the question, which was not at all in line with the rules and requirements in it, on the other hand, you have formulated it in a way that also does not conform to the current regulations and legal concepts, even with regard to the name of the hospital that you refer to. On the one hand, the hospital is called the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases, not the Children's Hospital, as you wrote. On the other hand, the intake for patients in emergency conditions was not stopped there. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] Because every medical facility under the Medical Services Act... I'm asking you to stay calm, because it's really important to use legal definitions, because otherwise we might get misunderstandings. Therefore, under the Law on Hospitals, every hospital hospital is obliged to provide 24-hour admission for the activities for which it has been authorised, including for emergencies. That is, if we follow this rule in the Law, no medical establishment can function if it stops the emergency reception of patients. In this case, it is a temporary suspension of the intensive care unit in relation to staff deficits. This has happened at the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases and this is what we are debating today. So let us not formalize ourselves because you have also tried to formalize today's conversation through procedures, but to turn to the meaning of this hearing and why is the National Assembly dealing with this problem today? Because it is indeed a fact that child health should become a real priority, and we have taken our steps in this regard. Children's mortality in Bulgaria, despite all negative conversations and reproaches, is steadily decreasing. For 2018, it is 5.8 per cent. It is higher than it is in Europe, but still efforts show a lasting trend and indeed this is an achievement within all statistics and a monitoring of the state of the system, which is expressed precisely by these global indicators of morbidity, mortality and others that you know of all. On the other hand, I would like to stress that really commitment and care are realized through both financial and organizational events. When I spoke to the management of the medical establishment these days, they said that we could be useful to them not only by politicizing the subject, but by finding specialists, because that is the requirement, these are the rules. If an anesthesiologist is found and if any of you can help in this sense [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] They will be extremely grateful to us. That is why they will be grateful, not that we have taken the time to use the subject of various political suggestions. Dear colleagues, the topic of health is really convenient for politicisation, but I will again, once again, call on us to treat it calmly, arguing, impartially and without infatuation with drawing dividends, because it is the only way to find long-term solutions, and in fact we all need to be united by the meaning of increasing confidence in a system. That's the thing that, in the long run, personally worries me as a doctor. Trust in the system enables it to be truly, on the one hand, as well accepted by patients, on the other hand, doctors in it to feel secure with the activity they exercise. The disbelief and aggressive attitude, which even sometimes is generated here in parliament, makes it impossible for them to deal with severe medical cases. This is the risk that exists in front of me. Then, when the whole society, all aggressively reflect an accident, and those, unfortunately, happen in healthcare, then indeed colleagues are now much more cautious and with some fear, they approach their commitment to severe medical cases. In this regard, we must be very careful and look for this calm atmosphere in which long-term reforms are being made that enables the professionalism of doctors to prevail and that they can be absolutely free in the exercise of their profession. That's what I see the point of today's conversation here. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. For attitude. Five minutes for the parliamentary group of BSP. You have the floor, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Before I placed my card as a conscientious participant in today's debate, yesterday I measured my participation in minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u58	The map.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u59	Maybe you should put the map down after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u60	I'll put the map on, Dr. Daritkova. Nevertheless, since the subject we are talking about is very important, please let me finish my speech with a little above the agreed five-minute program...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u61	If it's small, it's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u62	...which you have done for other colleagues and on topics that are far less important.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u63	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u64	I will start with the words of Dr. Daritkova, and I will supplement it: it is not only about personnel deficits, Dr. Daritkova, in children's healthcare, but about deficit of state vision. This is the main thing we will be dealing with here in the National Assembly, and all the actions in healthcare that speak in the right and wrong direction are policies. This is not about politicisation, this is about real action or lack of real action of the state. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In other words, the BSP parliamentary group cannot be blamed for politicizing the problem. It is acutely political, as it is placed sharply in front of the entire nation. Secondly, Mr. Minister, in all the words you have spoken here, there was a single sentence that was acute in the subject that there is a discomposition in the relationships of the various components that build the pyramid of health care. And if you offered us this decision a month ago: by urgency to replace one hospital with another? the national pediatric hospital, or as he calls it quite precisely, punctually Dr Daritkova, the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment to be replaced by another, I will tell you that right here no analysis of what the state of the capital city is and the location of the child contingent in it, the disease in the different periods of the time of the year, the need for intensive beds was carried out. In addition, I will tell you as a specialist, Mr. Minister, that these three hospitals, and this is what the head of the I.R.I.P., told you, are absolutely uncompromising. Pirogov, who has a direction, as Dr. Jeffer said, to operational patients who are for post-op treatment in this intensive care unit, Third City, which is strictly cardiologically profiled, and Alexandrovska, who has no conditions for conducting respiratory resuscitation. I've worked there for many years, she did repairs, but she's not able to accept such cases. That is, the lack, as we professionals call it in triage, that is to echeloning the sick and leaving the decision in the hands of the parents to go into a creepy triangle from hospital to hospital. There's no known electronics of health care at all, there's no information about free beds. With this harassment, which turns out to be on doctors, as Dr. Daritkova mentioned here, you will now see that in hospitals all places will be constantly occupied and much more difficult to accept children in emergency rooms because professionals are already afraid to return some, assessing that it is not an emergency, as they can receive thunder on their head. In this sense, the whole state vision of the distribution of the sick, of their triage, of the definition of the disease cannot be carried out, I simply rubbed out. With a white and red coupon on the way in, it's an internal triage. This triage should be started by the private physician. He used to go through a scheme that was very well developed in the Republic of Bulgaria. This scheme has now collapsed and no parent knows where to take his child. He goes to a hospital, waits for him to go to another hospital, he doesn't go to the first hospital, he goes back to the first hospital, and finally not because of a Reneemobile, but by helicopter to take him to the Pirogov, when the golden hour is past the diagnosis, it's all over. This puts, as you and other colleagues have said, the need to establish a national pediatric hospital. But this question, Minister, has become a gum. I'm sorry to say this, but it's because I'm in a lot of pain. He was placed by a group of pediatricians last year before the New Year, a completely unreasonable decision was cast for the determination of Lozenets in a children's hospital. Turns out it was unreasonable. Now you offer us here, but do you realize that the Chamber of Architects does not want to agree with your decision and when national television specialists come out to say that there are capacitive shortcomings of this building.. It is built according to other standards that do not comply with current European security standards at all. I'll ask you: if you make a house for your children, let alone a medical facility, will you take a 40-year-old building? Is there not so many spots at the Medical Academy, is there so much room that we can convince ourselves now that this building will be strengthened? This is extremely incorrect to Bulgarian children, to children's healthcare. If really everything that I witnessed yesterday, I'm sorry to say it here, our ideas, our wishes to have an electronic drug auction, yesterday with the changes in the Public Procurement Act went to nothingness. Looking at the plans for the children's hospital and emergency care and e-health, I remember at the end of my speech, Mr. Minister, Andersen's tale of the king's new clothes. Remember her, too, because very soon the nation will remind her of all of us. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. The word for attitude is DPS. Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! From the debate we had, we understood this. The emergency reception at the Children's Hospital will be restored when the department is completed. Personally, the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health are looking for two anesthesiologists. Mr. Minister, if you have come so far as to personally search for two colleagues with specialty "Anesthesiology" then things in the healthcare system in Bulgaria are extremely badly placed. Dear colleagues, I do not know if you know this, but I would like to inform you that there is not a single place in the announced state admission in the speciality of Anesthesiology and resuscitation. In 2020 there is not a single place that the state will pay for such specialization. Did you know that, Minister? There is a crisis with the anesthesiologists, with the pediatricians and the state does not announce any place for such specialization in next year's government procurement. I can list you many more inadequate actions. No one, honourable colleagues, is talking about the role of the personal physician in this case with this child. Where's the doctor? He is the person who should be aware of all the treatment of a child and of each patient, of course. There is no single information system. When, Minister, will there be one? Many colleagues have said that there is really no link between the individual units of the health system and these are problems that are problems of the system and not of the particular treatment team. It was Satanized the doctor who put the most effort, in fact, to do something for this child. She was lynched publicly. And this is the other systemic problem of our society. As for the fact that there will be a new pediatric hospital, let us not delude ourselves in the next five years there will be no such hospital, there will be no technical way, so the problem remains and we must make a decision, not we specifically, but you, Minister, and your team, what will happen with the treatment of Bulgarian children. I do not agree with the cheerful claims here that we are progressing because it reduces child mortality. We are progressing, however, and those we are trying to reach do not stand in the same place in recent years. They have also reduced this indicator immensely. So this is nothing to be proud of. And in this context we are against Satanizing the image of the Bulgarian doctor. We categorically state it as a parliamentary group, because in this case this happened. We are opposed to attempts in recent days with opposition within the medical community of nurses against doctors to distract themselves and to seek a solution in a way that is counterproductive. And we're going to oppose those attempts, and then we're going to fight them. In a little while there will be an exhibition in the couloirs of the parliament. The good word is used because the Bulgarian Medical Union believes that the good word heals not only the patient. What I want to say is that the good word for the people who are being treated is also an experience together, with joint efforts to look for a way out of the situation, a situation where we have wonderful doctors and very poor health care. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. The Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs is entitled to take an attitude. You have the floor, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I would like to highlight a very important moment from the minister's exhibition, which is the pride of the program. "Mother and children's health care" is the biochemical screening that has been done in the last few years for free already. This screening allows very early pregnancy to detect a pathology These are the trisomes 13, 18 and 21, after which children are born with permanent birth defects that cannot be treated. This screening helps us to propose an interruption of pregnancy in these pregnant women... what is not even done in half of modern Europe. For such an example, Malta and Ireland do not interrupt such pregnancies because the Catholic Church does not permit them. After this screening, we give parents the opportunity to assess whether they would watch a child with Down's disease for life, which is a serious social problem for both parents and the state. So we are part of a modern Europe in this regard. I want to say something else. Two or three years ago, on a Norwegian program, large public hospitals received modern echographic devices, which are also part of this program of biochemical screening, so I hope the Ministry will look with a good eye at public hospitals, which I have said many times, including from this tribune, are the backbone of Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. I don't see the will to express any attitude. That concludes the procedure for this point. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your participation. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS ON CHANGES IN STANDING AND TEMPORARY COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The first solution is: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of The Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Nikolay Veselinov as the replacement representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 2. He elected Petar Hristov Petrov as the replacement representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] As I understand it, the importers want to say something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, on behalf of the importers, I withdraw the proposal of the draft decision so submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u71	I'm guessing it's on behalf of the importers. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u72	Dear colleagues, such changes are routine in general and no one pays attention to them. They're done voluntarily. Here importers think they'll go without consequences. They're lying to each other. What is being done today is in the context and meaning of a long-standing repression with regard to the political party "Attack" and will have serious consequences in terms of the ratio of forces in this Parliament. This repression began with the overthrow of Volen Siderov by the chairman of the parliamentary group, she went through the exclusion, absolutely improperly, of certain MPs, she continued with the fact that the parliamentary group was obsessed with the United Patriots in a way in which it became a parliamentary group of united falsepatriots, I would continue to come to this moment of dishonor. And I wonder, dear Mr. Vigenin, why did you accept the role of executioner? You stand in the stands when our heads are cut off, and the chairwoman is very cleverly retired just now, she walks into her office and from there she looks at what's going on in the Chamber. Apparently, she's uncomfortable too.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u73	I don't know what you mean, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u74	I'm asking a rhetorical question, Mr. Vigenin. She's watching what's happening in this room, she's probably rubbing her hands, or maybe she's uncomfortable, but she's being ordered, she's doing it, as you can see, and it's going to happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u75	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u76	Yes, I am essentially talking about this repression which is being done with regard to Mr. Alexandrov, as a worthy Commissioner, in which he participated and in which he behaved perfectly, which, unlike others, there are no failures. I mean, not just this committee, but for hanging out in this parliament that we've witnessed. And why are you doing this? This time we will not address you from GERB with a call to remove the item from the agenda, as we have done, once, but obviously there are more important things for you, there are priorities, and these priorities consist in fulfilling the order for repression of the party's activists. I will take the floor for each particular case from now on, which requires the release of a Member of the National Assembly from the party "Attack" by the committee concerned. And I'll tell you, before me is the Rules, you're so illiterate the importers, you of the united false Patriots, that you didn't even point out the exact grounds of the Rules, you wrote it like that. What right, what Rules, what points of it and the Constitution do you not care about? What is important is that you show your awful grudge and hatred for us again.........the ones we made you who brought you here. A terrible mistake, of course! [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]] And I ask you, Mr. Chairman, this is by procedure, to remind from now on each of the proposals to whom it relates, to clarify what are the motives and hidden desires and arguments of the importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I'm putting to the vote the procedure for dropping...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u78	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u79	Let's vote on the procedure for dropping...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u80	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u81	All right, here we go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u82	In the manner of conduct, Madam President! I demand the punishment of the unspeakable MP because he insulted me three times, twice called me a liar and once an illiterate. If the first can be argued, my second diplomas categorically disprove it. I demand punishment!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. I'm gonna check the transcript and let you know what decision I'm gonna make, because I didn't hold the hearing. I put to the vote the motion to drop the Project for a decision that my colleagues from...... have just made............................................................................... Vote 148 MPs: 138, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 in relation to art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Pavel Shopov as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for returning to the stand to take on your functions and role and not to give it to an opposition man. Mr. Vigenin probably didn't like doing that dirty work. It belongs to you. There's no art here either. 20 of our rules, Art. 23, para. 3 " These are things that do not matter, since it is essentially decided what should happen. Dear colleagues, I was sent to this Commission at the beginning of the mandate of Mr. Simeonov's insistence to do this unpleasant work there, to suppress the interests of the Bulgarian workers, to adopt laws that are unpleasant, to put it mildly, and which are highly reproaching. This was the Law on which foreign workers are brought into Bulgaria without jumping the wall, refugees that the people already called Simeonovtsi. Mr. Siderov and I met with the mothers during the problems under the Law in relation to children with disabilities, in which we carried out very serious criticisms. Our criticisms were under the Law, which we will see tomorrow, under the Law on Social Services. Yesterday, too, I think the Commission has created problems for the government in this regard and direction. This is the reason why Simeonov apparently repented and regretted this mistake he made, that I will not be obedient and work for the benefit of Bulgarian employees, workers, people who need social services. And here's the score! To be removed from this Commission, for which I think the Vice-President of the Commission from GERB Mrs. Svetlana Angelova will be pleased all, and ruling, perhaps largely with the opposition. I don't know why you're doing this. And in violation, I say again, to the Rules of Procedure, because the former group in which we have been members does not have the right to do so on these texts, which are referred to as the basis of the Rules. Each Member of the National Assembly shall participate in a parliamentary committee, may in two parliamentary committees. There's no reason for my release. In this regard, we at Ataka say to you: "There is retribution. Politically I speak because there is morality in politics, unlike what is promoted and spoken banally and everywhere, and the moment will come when this imbalance, this balance, which you currently do not respect, will turn against you. Thank you. Vote, of course, as your conscience shows, but there are truths that cannot be veiled. God sees and returns everything!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I'm voting on the draft decision. on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. They voted 144 MPs: for 101, against 17, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Budget and Finance The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 in relation to art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Margarita Nikolova as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. He elected Aleksandar Sabanov as member and Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Committee. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u86	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u87	Yes, a statement. Excuse me, Mr. Shopov. Cancel the vote! [[Heckling]] Each draft decision is a separate topic, so colleagues are entitled to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u88	Dear colleagues, a slight wave has passed, I see the discontent that I am going out to speak again. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u89	Speak up, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u90	I want you to know that these statements of mine will have consequences. Here is the case of the same person Mrs. Nikolova, who is an exceptional financier, a specialist, is released to enter one of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u91	Look out!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u92	They'll be offended.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u93	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u94	...from the parliamentary group of false patriots.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u95	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u96	But this is because Mrs. Nikolova had a keen sense of telling truths, including when watching and adopting the last budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. She and the other party representative, Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov, were used to the Commission with advice, with attempts to be respected, to be more cooperative, more obedient, they were not such, including threats of the kind: "Well, if you want to stay in the Commission, vote." We have made public statements in this regard. I don't know which one of you caught them, who found out, who heard in the noise of the adoption of the budget? I am sure that things have gone very unpunished "things that would have real scandals in a normal parliament, in a normal country. This is about a pure political repression in relation to a MP who has conscientiously and honestly fulfilled his duties no more, but it is the power of the authorities to hold the staff and hit with it on the heads anyone who does not perform, who is not obedient and who deviates from the common line. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, the vote should be a political decision for you in a moment...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u97	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u98	...and it will largely reflect the balance of forces and relations in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u100	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u101	Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Each parliamentary group in the Bulgarian Parliament has the right to make changes to the various committees in the different delegations. It's every group's right. Here, the fact that a certain person is trying to fool people that we are not entitled to breaking the Rules is simply not true. The reasons for the release of certain people from the committees, which are the quota of the United Patriarchs, are not only because they are no longer part of the group of the United Patriarchs. Unfortunately, I am going to say this here - a large part of these people who have become independent representatives of the National Assembly simply do not participate in the activities of the Bulgarian National Assembly - neither in the Chamber, nor in the committees in which they are or have been. I'm going to give examples because the independent MP before me is talking about us being false patriots. I'll tell you who's a lying patriot. Mr. Volen Siderov as a Member of Parliament in the Bulgarian National Assembly was a member of two committees, one was on foreign policy. I would like to ask the independent MP, who is not a false patriot, and his leader is not a false patriot: how many times has he attended meetings of the Foreign Policy Committee? Zero, zero! [[Shows hands zero.]] The Commission, which looks at international treaties where national interests are to be defended, patriotism is zero, in two years and something zero times! And to talk here about morality and so on... First look at yourself, Mr. Independent MP, and then comment on who else is a patriot and who is not. Even scarier and worse, people like you, who declared themselves opposed to the Istanbul Convention, to genderism and everything else, when it was the Foreign Commission meeting and the Istanbul Convention was being watched, Mr. Siderov did not appear at the meeting, did not vote, and that is why the Istanbul Convention of the Foreign Policy Commission was adopted. So when you go out here, first see what you do. You don't do anything. All you do is talk and lie to people. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u104	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u105	You don't have time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u106	Don't say the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u107	You don't have time for a line. [[Heckling]] You've run out of time at this point for the independents. You're entitled to 10 minutes. You've run out of time. [[Heckling]] You don't have time anymore. I put to the vote a draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Budget and Finance. They voted 145 MPs: 97, against 13, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 15, para. 4 HAS DECIDED He released Stanislav Stanilov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u108	For a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u109	You don't have time anymore, you don't, no, no. That's one point. [[Noise and lines.]] The point is one, Mr. Shopov. You had ten minutes to talk, and you ran out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u110	He made two speeches and violated the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u111	No, he didn't break the rules. He's got 10 minutes. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Please, Mr. Angelov, don't argue! I put to the vote a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. They voted 132 MPs: for 85, against 28, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u112	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u113	Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u114	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against the release of Professor Stanilov because, at least personally, I am convinced that he has all the necessary and political and professional qualities, biographical, human chairing such a commission, which is called to contact perhaps the most active part of our society, a Commission with regard to guaranteeing the rights of expression, freedom of speech. I think that he repeatedly proved with his speeches in both parliament and his personal behaviour that he was an ethical person, that even when he took extreme positions, they were the result of his personal beliefs. I do not know any serious objections to this Commission and its work in the National Assembly. Recently there was a serious issue with the Bulgarian National Radio, in particular with the Horizon Programme. I think his attitude... The Commission has done perhaps in the best way in this complex situation. I call on my fellow Members from the General Assembly to review their decision in this particular case, to take another look at the matter and not to approach the National Assembly committees closely, where they are called upon to do work, and not to satisfy one or other passions that arise between us in political opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Colleagues, I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Petar Hristov Petrov as a member of the Committee on Environment and Water. Please, voting mode. Vote 142 MPs: 130 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm offering your attention to the project! DECISION on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Alexander Sabanov as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Petar Petrov as member and Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please, voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 88, against 37, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Hristian Mitev as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 111, against 12, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u116	Can we do this the way we're supposed to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u118	Madam President, I've dealt with the Rules. You are wrong that the total time of independent MPs throughout this point is ten minutes. This concerns voting on separate draft decisions and on each separate draft decision, the debate should be separate, as it concerns a separate case. It's not like that. Check with the Legal Department. If you did, you'd hear other truths. We've seen from the United False Patriot that they're trying to continue... [[noise and lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u119	Mr. Shopov, please don't insult your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u120	... to vex Volen Siderov a man whom they banished from the hall, of course, with your crucial help, as once in Bulgaria on 9 September with the decisive help of the Soviet army. If it wasn't for you and if you hadn't let them go...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u121	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u122	...the way they did it, it wouldn't have come to this disgraceful moment. And I wonder why you didn't hurt who else, but Professor Stanilov himself. I think you were absolutely...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u123	You're speaking to the point, Mr. Shopov, not the way you're leading it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u124	...a symbol of repression, of political repression. And Mr. Chukolov, you pulled him out of the Internal Affairs Committee because this committee is very important...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u125	I didn't pull it out, the gym pulled it out, that's how she voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u126	They're usually... It's not the hall, not the hall, you pulled it out of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u127	All right, Mr. Shopov! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u128	You please the ones on the right and you get to the point... But whatever he called, he called! I won't talk about sunsets and sunrises.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u130	Objectively, it comes down to processes that I call the end of the age.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Let me just point out to you that all of the individual draft decisions are collected in one point... read your art. 58, para. 1, because it's too long and I don't feel like lecturing you right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u132	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u133	What procedure? The way you're leading it? I explained exactly what was going on, Mr. Kasabov. Let's not raise the pressure! Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Hristian Mitev as a member of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Please, voting mode. They voted 124 MPs: 116, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 in relation to art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Desislav Chukolov as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 125 MPs: for 101, against 3, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Lachezar Bogoomilov Ivanov as a member of the Temporary Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 116 MPs: 96, against 5, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I present to your attention: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stanislav Stoyanov as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 97, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. And the last one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He chose Mitev Stoynov as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 97, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm inviting you to the lobby at 11:30 because we have an exhibition. We're gonna take a break for half an hour. Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 13 December 2019 to 19 December 2019. There are no such questions. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Vessela Lecheva and Ilian Timchev. To the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev, the first question will be asked by the People's Representative Valentina Naydenova concerning the withdrawal of the National Framework Treaty and its transition to direct purchase of health activities, services and payment of goods from NHIF and other entities (insurance companies) involved in the management of the financial resources from health insurance and in the new model of health care. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u134	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, in the market economy in the realization of a trade deal there are at least two parties - seller and buyer, which, on the principle of supply and supply and through direct negotiation, find for both parties the most acceptable price at which the transaction is realized. Is this the case in healthcare, which acts on market principles in the Republic of Bulgaria? In accordance with art. 53, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act, I quote: For carrying out the activities provided for in this law, NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical Association adopt by signing the National Framework Contract for Medical Activities, and NHIF and the Bulgarian Dental Union accept by signing the National Framework Treaty for Dental Activities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions and, notice, responsible for the medical care they provide. However, in art. 1, para. 1 of the Law on word organizations of doctors and dentists the relevant word organization is responsible only for violation of professional ethics. Nowhere is it stated in the Word Organizations Act that the relevant word organization is responsible for medical activities or for medical activities carried out by the Casa's contractual partners. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer this question: do you foresee in your new model that the National Framework Treaty and the participation of word organizations in negotiating prices and the transition to direct purchase of health activities, services and payment of goods from NHIF and other entities involved in the management of the financial resources from health insurance?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u135	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, in my participation in the parliamentary control of the National Assembly on 20 September this year in response to your question about NHIF wines and the new funding entities in the national health system in the proposed model of health, I have detailed all the elements of the same. However, the main goal of the model is to give the patient the right to choose the following: who to manage his health contributions; where to treat under the best conditions on the territory of the country; full awareness of the scope and prices of medical services and medicines. The main thing in this model is the demonopolization of the National Health Insurance Fund and the inclusion of health funds to compete equally and which should meet all solvency and financial sustainability requirements. With regard to the prices of medical activities, the basic package in the model provides that they will be subject to negotiation between funds and medical aid contractors. There is no contradiction in this process to the participation of representatives of the word organizations of dentists and dentists. At this stage, I cannot give a clear answer to the question you have asked, as there is still no public and political consensus on the choice of a model for financing and organisation of health. Specific decisions and proposals for changes in the legal framework will be subject to discussion after a possible choice of the health insurance model. What depends on me and I can do is to continue with the discussions in order to find a common consensus on the important issues of changing the health system and improving it. I continue to offer your attention and a package of regulatory changes that lead to improving the current model, its functioning and organisation. I am ready for specific debates and a discussion of proposals. At this stage, I put two options for the development of the system on both sides, there was a lot of................................................................................................ There is no obstacle to discussing another option or to improve the mechanisms and scope of the projects already presented by me. I hope for the convergence of the positions of the political forces around a health insurance model that will be supported by both the participants in the sector and the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u138	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think he has made it clear that there is still no light on whether the word organizations will continue to play a key position in relation to the National Framework Treaty, because it is clear that a direct negotiation between the funds is also to be re-registered as such, undoubtedly the LDC will no longer be the same or will be gone. I would just like to point out to you that with this question, whether the National Framework Treaty will remain or not, this is the key to a future discussion. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Bulgarian Medical Union, by defending the interests of the medical aid performers, offer not itself as a mandatory condition in this negotiation, but rather to have some minimum prices of health services in this basic package of health activities, which will now actually ensure that those who work will have a stable back so that they can work calmly. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, you won't have the back. The second question is again by Mrs. Naydenova on re-registered medical institutions, commercial companies with over 50 percent state and municipal participation in capital or in which the state, respectively the municipality, otherwise exert a dominant influence under the Public Enterprises Act and their place in the new model of health care. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u140	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I tried to be up-to-date with this issue because we soon voted on the Public Enterprises Act. Dear colleagues, according to art. 7, para. 1 of the Public Enterprises Act, I quote:.. Public undertakings may be subject to public service obligations or to public policy objectives by the authorities exercising the rights of the State, the municipality, within their competence or under a rule defined by law. In accordance with art. 2, para. 1, public undertakings are: commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State or municipal participation in the capital or in which the State, the municipality, otherwise exerts a dominant influence; subsidiaries of the commercial companies under the heading. 1 and the enterprises under point 1. 3 if through them the State, the municipality, controls more than 50 percent of the shares, shares, with a right vote or otherwise exercises a dominant influence. And third: the State enterprises created by special laws, on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. According to § 1 of the Additional provisions of the same law, public services are: educational, health.. Notice, colleagues, health, water supply, sewerage and so on, not to quote the Law any more. In view of the above, Mr Minister, I ask you to answer the question: do you provide that medical establishments registered as commercial companies with more than 50 percent of state, municipal, capital participation under the Law on Medical Institutions or where the State, the municipality, otherwise exercises a dominant influence under the Law on Public Enterprises, be reregistered as public undertakings providing public services under the Law on Public Enterprises, and subsequently what is their place as such in your new model of health, if they do?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u141	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, under the Public Enterprises Act, medical establishments, commercial companies, with more than 50 per cent state and municipal participation in the capital or in which the State, respectively the municipality, otherwise exercises dominant influence and the subsidiaries of these commercial companies, if through them the State, the municipality, controls more than 50% of the voting shares or otherwise exercises dominant influence, are public undertakings under art. 2, a. 1, t. 1 et c. 2 of the Law. The above-mentioned medical establishments, public undertakings may be entrusted with public service obligations or public policy objectives by the authorities exercising the rights of the State, respectively, to the municipality, within their competence or under a procedure laid down by law. 7, para. 1 of the Law on Public Enterprises, taking into account the fact that health and education services are part of public services within the meaning of the Law on Public Enterprises. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the public service obligations or public policy objectives are specified by reference to the public undertaking, the content of the obligation, the period and the conditions under which it should be met, as well as other conditions, if any, and the information is published on the website of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control, and the costs of public undertakings in fulfilling the above obligations are financed by the state budget, respectively, by the municipal budget, or by order laid down by law and published in the Annual Financial Statement as provided for in art. 7, para. 2 and para. 3 of the Law. Within six months of the entry into force of the Law, the Council of Ministers should adopt the rules for its implementation, where the procedures laid down in that Law will be laid down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Naydenova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u144	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, you will allow me to return you a little to the just expired hearing in the Chamber not for any negative emotions, but rather to sum up my guess that you will also do an analysis of what happened in the Chamber, what they recommended from the left, from the right, from the middle, but I will tell you why I link it to my question. I think that in summary you have come to the following conclusion: first, I think that Dr. Jeffer said, a personnel deficit in health care, what needs to be done and decided in the future. Second, Dr. Mihailov said about a shift in the structure. You must arrange the puzzle, individual health structures with their links, their relationships and what is basically on the left, and from the middle said that e-health should be introduced. I'll tell you something you've never heard before, I suppose, from my colleagues here in the Chamber. You know, there's this particular control you don't have anywhere to meet. The control shall be exercised by the executive, by medical audit, by other medical control bodies. But there is one particular, internal control that controls between doctors themselves, between health workers, and when something you didn't do, and with e-health, you're going to see it very well, you're going to do a very collegiate remark from your colleague that something has been missed, that something has to be. That way the patients will know and be informed. On the other hand, in time, if your mistake continues, no one will want to work with you, Mr. Minister. I am paying attention to this kind of control to tell you the other one, which is why it is also my question: it is very important that the next time public health from private healthcare is distinguished. We at BSP have always been about dropping companies and with this issue I draw your attention to one possibility that this will happen in the form of public enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u145	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, as soon as I took office as Minister of Health, the first thing I asked for was to have an analysis of human resources for the period from 2000 until now. I would like to tell you that the biggest contraction of staff in the healthcare system is in the years in which she managed the Bulgarian Socialist Party. In recent years and especially in the years in which I am a minister, there has been a stabilisation, of course, at a low level, but there is a certain sustainability in the health care system. So when accusations are made against someone, it is nice to present to you the report that our specialists have made and to see in which years the footage has decreased the most and where this process started. With regard to the electronic file, the electronic direction, the electronic recipe. Since when are we talking about e-health? Again for more than 20 years, again goes through the period in which you have also ruled. However, this team of the Ministry of Health raised from the logs the project for the construction of the National Health Information System and currently all modules, including the electronic file, are at some stage of the procurement procedure. So the least you can do is accuse me. I am the first person to put on the agenda the implementation of this project, and if God gives us health and time, it will become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. May God bless us all! A declaration on behalf of a group, please, Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, after the announcement, I'll take half an hour off.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Declaration of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, the Council of Ministers decided to vote Bulgaria to pay nearly 25 million. lv. of the builder of the Danube Bridge 2 (BSCA Construction) because of another judgment of the international arbitration court in Paris to the state as a result of the carefree management of the governments of the BSP. Since we often hear the unfounded ones of the opposition that the government spends money in an opaque way, in order not to bring them into temptation and this time to do so, here, from the high tribune of the National Assembly, we want to make it clear and absolutely transparent to the public how the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer is spent. In 2013, the builder of "Danube Bridge 2" "FC Construction" stated a claim to pay an additional amount of nearly 11 million. EUR since during the implementation of the contract there was a need for material to be provided outside the territory of the site and the State was delayed to ensure the establishment of a concession for extraction. Neither under Bulgarian law nor under the contract does the state have a similar commitment. However, in her letter to the manager of the company of 5 August 2014, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Oresharski Mrs. Daniela Bobeva probably not on her own behalf, but on behalf of the government, acknowledged the claim to the Bulgarian state of 10 million. Euros. As well as, note, regret that the government cannot pay these amounts, as the state does not have the necessary funds for the year in question. Without seeking in any way its rights, the Oresharski government completely inexplicably recognises the debt, which neither by law nor by the contract, the Bulgarian side should owe assistance, which costs nearly 28 million. lv. of the Bulgarian citizen. The Court of Arbitration refers precisely to this letter from the Oresharski Government, as well as recognition of the undue. On the other hand, it also deprives us of reasonable objections to claims. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers voted on another money that we pay another account, bequeathed to us by BSP, another classic example of managing BSP over the years, always someone else to pay the bill. We also remember what highways they built. They electionally discovered the unfinished highway, which turned out to be the most expensive highway, charged eight million euros per kilometer. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Again during the BSP was built the most perfect part and on the highway "Trakiya" "between Stara Zagora and Chirpan." It is precisely this area currently requires nearly 120 million. BGN to repair these damage. Let us also remember the history of Danube Bridge 2 itself. In the distant 2004, the government approved the financing of the project and, on 24 January 2007, the parliament ratified the Agreement between Bulgaria and Romania on the construction of a new bridge over the Danube River, and in the same year the implementation agreement was signed on 30 January. I hope that some of you are still remembering how in 2009 at the site of "Danube Bridge 2" there were only one heap and a few poles taking off in the non-navigable part of the river. From 2009 to 2012, the whole facility was fully built and accordingly put into operation. Literally in three years the government of Boyko Borisov managed to complete an absolutely failed BSP project, which in five years managed to pour only one pole for millions. You remember the then efforts of the prime minister and his meetings with the leaders of the European Commission, who he was able to convince that the project was appropriate, and the deadline for its implementation was extended. Here I can list many more examples of the carefree way of managing the pretending alternative Stoletnitsa. "Danube Bridge 2" is only a small part of the endless list of BSPs with neglected projects without any protection of the state interest. This was also the case with the lost arbitrage for NPP "Belene" for 1 billion. 200 million. lv. This only shows the hypocrisy of the BSP and their irreparable tendency to bring the state into crisis since the century. I will therefore rhetorically ask: why we recognised debt instead of contesting the request with legal arguments and thus damaged the state by nearly 25 million. lv.? Why, since this debt has been recognised, has not been paid by the Oresharski government, but left to the next governments? Why do seven years after BSP's last cabinet, the state still pays millions of levs, and they keep saying they can rule better than us? I'll leave the answers to you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again we witness how the current government in the face of GERB is cheap on flour and expensive on bran. Once again, we see crocodile tears pouring out for 20 million in Bulgaria's lost arbitration and forgetting 600 million. Euros lost by Bulgaria because of GERB's short-sighted decision to terminate the nuclear power plant "Belene." Once again, we hear about the Lulin Highway and forget that for one year now the Thracian highway has been made in your time, it is not even a speed road and we are moving at 90 km per hour because it has not been repaired. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Once again, colleagues from GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u151	Please, guys! Colleagues, please be quiet! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u152	He's telling the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u153	I think the upbringing requires that we hear each other, as we listened calmly to your lies. [[noise]] and your scams, but it's a matter of education and parliamentary culture this. You do not surprise me with your behavior. You can continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u154	You guys keep talking about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u155	In this regard, I would like to clarify that the year that passed the year of the management of GERB is another lost year for Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] We had no intention on the eve of New Year to spoil the holiday of the Bulgarians, but since you yourself want this thing, I will tell you the things that you are currently trying to transfer and veil with some 20 million that have been since 2013. Colleagues, just to remind you, we are on the eve of 2020. We are on the eve of a new year, where once again nothing new awaits us, looking at the budget that you have accepted, watching and neglecting social policy, looking at everything you do as governors. I would like to pay attention once more when we are chosen to come here, our task has been and continues to be to serve in the interests of the people. To the people, not to the oligarchs, to those who have trusted us with their voices to be here, and to those who hope to improve their lives. Unfortunately, you're not capable of doing this thing. The only thing you can do is dig through the past and look for an excuse in the past for your current mistakes and for being incompetent to run the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u156	Mr. Ermenkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u157	I'm so sorry! Madam President, I have the right as a person to give an assessment of the management of GERB and it is incompetent, as well as to say it. Unfortunately, that's true! I'm not happy, I'm sorry, because I'm a citizen of this republic, and I'm always hoping that someone will finally start ruling professionally. This is not going to happen with reading declarations, this is not going to happen with the behavior you demonstrate, this is not going to happen with the duplicity when you talk: Colleagues, it is time to learn to manage and seek responsibility for your mistakes, because you have ruled the state for 10 years and 10 years this government shows that the state is going down. You can show any statistical errors, statistics, you can flood us with numbers, you can tell us that unemployment in Bulgaria has fallen yes, it has decreased because the working population left Bulgaria, and not because we have lost 20 million. lv. in arbitration, but because you're running the state so that the young people can leave. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You can tell us that you are doing miracles in health care, unfortunately, miracles only in that there is no health care. I won't! And the discussions we're having right now prove it. The minister who is here, as far as I know from everything he tells me, is that the truth in healthcare was in financial discipline and that there were no obligations or reduced hospital duties. Yeah, hospital duties are down, death rates are rising. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] From this point of view... This is about your overall policy, gentlemen ruling.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u158	Go, go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u159	From this point of view, I would like to pay attention once again: one year... [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u160	Don't tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u161	...one year lost for the Republic of Bulgaria; one year killed hopes both in the field of energy and in the field of economics and in the field of social policy. There is no area in Bulgaria where you have not killed the hopes, except for the hopes of the richer ones, of the chosen ones to whom you give money with laws, which is called the "Lobyst legislation" but you are masters of it. [[GERB lines.]] And from now on, I just want to ask you, when you stand on this stand, treat yourself with responsibility and respect above all else. Do not be humiliated by such petty things that you are currently trying to cover up your mistakes, your omissions. If you go out here and say, yes, we were wrong and we're going to fix it, you'll probably gain more trust than trying to dig through the closet and look for old skeletons. You'll probably find there's no way, there's no management that doesn't make mistakes, but there can't be management like yours, which is just from mistakes. This is the problem of the Republic of Bulgaria. I hope that next year you will still do something that will be good for Bulgaria and that is, if you do not take into account your own mistakes, at least listen from time to time to what the opposition offers you, because you are still fulfilling our wishes, but after they are imposed on you from the street. I'm sorry, but it's the truth. This, unfortunately, is also your way of ruling. You can't hear us, you don't comply with us, you're looking for those dividing lines that keep you maybe so popular somewhere in your eyes at the level of management, but you've practically hit the bottom, unfortunately. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Genov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u163	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Madam President, I would like you to recall, specifically...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u164	I'm gonna remind you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u165	...yes, many circumstances in the construction of the Danube Bridge 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u166	I can't recall them, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u167	No, remind Mr. Nenkov these circumstances that this was a completely failed project by the NDSV government.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u168	No, no. In the manner of conduct you speak essentially, Mr. Genov. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u169	In 2005, this project was rebooted with...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u170	Come on, to me what you have to say, Mr. Genov. [[People's Representative Manol Genov speaks in off microphones.]] In the manner of conducting the procedure, Mr. Genov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u171	...to do the math, and you do the math, whether it's there or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u172	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u173	And who took responsibility with the 40 million added to the 90s...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u174	Mr. Genov, you're making your point. Mr. Genov, please! [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Thank you, Mr. Genov. You and Mr. Nenkov have a chance to talk outside. Dear colleagues, the exhibition will be opened in the Northern lobby. The initiative is of the Bulgarian Medical Union. The exhibition presents phototabla, which tell positive stories and express gratitude to doctors and teams who have provided medical assistance and dedication in their work. All MPs are invited. Half an hour off, guys. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u175	We're continuing with parliamentary control. The following is a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the implementation of the National Programme for the Improvement of Vaccine Prevention of Seasonal Flu 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u176	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! This year, the National Programme for the Improvement of Vaccine Prevention of Seasonal Flu 2019 ends on 31 December. However, the signals have increased to us as MPs that although they are recommended for all individuals aged 65 years old suffering from chronic diseases, as well as others from the target group, the interest and the desire to place them has been extremely high, but the agreed quantities have not been sufficient. A complete doctoral practices, for example in the municipalities Teteven and Troyan of Loveska region, have not received any flu vaccine, although they have been claimed. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what principles will be planned and allocated the vaccines under the National Programme against seasonal influenza for 2020 - 2022?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u177	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, the strategic goal of the National Programme for the Improvement of Vaccine Prevention of Seasonal Flu 2019 - 2022 is to reduce the incidence and mortality of seasonal influenza and complications related to influenza by increasing the immunization range in adults aged 65 and over, with the possibility of including target groups of patients with chronic diseases according to Ordinance No 15 of 2005 on Immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria. As a priority in the Programme, there is an increase in the vaccination range with influenza vaccines among the target population and up to 25% of the adult population aged 65 years should be covered by 2022. The Action Plan of the Programme provides for periodic evaluation and analysis of the implementation of the immunizations of the target groups. The National Coordination Council together with the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund is the implementation of the activity under the Programme. The National Coordination Council shall be established in accordance with point 1.1 of the Work Programme and shall be an advisory body with the Minister of Health. According to the instructions drawn up under point 2.2 of the Work Programme concerning the order of prescription, allocation, reporting and payment of seasonal influenza vaccines ensuring the implementation of the Programme, the statement of the required quantities shall be made by the general practitioner for persons of the target group in his patient list to the wholesaler of medicinal products defined by the NHIF after completion of the procedure under Regulation No 10 of 2009. The general practitioner shall best know the persons of his patient list and shall, according to their accompanying diseases, determine those to be immunised by them, and after assessing their health and non- contraindications may apply the recommended flu vaccine. The recommended immunizations under the Programme for the current year end on 31 December. The Ministry of Health also has information from citizens about shortages in individual populations of influenza vaccine under the National Programme, with assistance given in each particular case. After reporting in 2020, the National Coordination Council, together with the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, will discuss and analyse the difficulties identified in implementing the Programme, the achieved immunization range and, if necessary, propose actions to improve the planning and reporting of vaccines implemented for its implementation. Executives of the Programme, NGOs and all stakeholders may submit their proposals to improve the organisation of the work of the National Coordination Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u180	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Moreover, I understand that there was such an indication to personal physicians, as I had information in advance that such an indication should be made by the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund, for which I thank you. There's something else. I think because this is the first year of this programme, so it has worked, but I have to tell you that the average range for the country is only 2.4%, according to my data. The calculations are based on historical sales of flu vaccine rather than on actual doses. I don't even dare think that's the case with the rest of the vaccines. Therefore, I think that the Ministry of Health should change the methodology for calculating the average range of immunizations and immunised with influenza vaccine and, as of next year, in fact, this is a known type of analysis for the previous 2019 period, to be based on really immune patients. That is to say, really administered doses, which means that the information will not be from the wholesalers, but from the personal doctors themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u181	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Anton Kutev concerning a request by the Prime Minister for the removal of directors of three capital hospitals. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u182	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question to you is dictated by a meeting of the Council of Ministers. By the way, the question and the conversation will now be related to the hearing that took place an hour ago. At a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2019 when it is actually clear, unfortunately, that the child has passed through three hospitals and in the end you have failed to save him. I understand there's a problem, obviously. The sitting begins with this, I quote Boyko Borisov from the shorthand of the meeting: "Ananiev, we have now met the parents of the deceased child. As long as the prosecution's and forensic forensics are in check, I want you to remove all hospital directors and all those involved in the process. On this occasion, I am convinced that many people in this room and you certainly know very well the health problems, you know them better than I do, I suppose, you realize that one of the main health problems is actually the issue of personnel, that is, how many doctors we have and how they can be somehow assembled so that the wards can work. We well know that the result of this intervention he asked of you, you removed them, were the resignations of doctors, resulting in the closure of another ward in the hospital. I am sure that at least you are well aware that a large part of district and municipal hospitals have practically a very serious problem with maintaining wards due to lack of people, including cardiologically, that is, key important wards, that is, health problems are extremely serious. I think they're connected in a huge part to the footage, especially in the countryside. In many hospitals in the province, doctors actually take three, four times their private practice than their salaries as doctors. They don't have any motivation to work in hospitals, where they're gonna be on night duty, they're gonna be responsible, not go to the private office, get my money and come home at six o'clock in the evening. This leads to the closure of wards, as happened in the hospital in question thanks to this. One of my questions to you is: what are the motives, your motives, and what are the grounds according to the Prime Minister for removing the directors of hospitals, given that one of these hospital directors managed to organize a pulmonary transplant just a month ago, which the Ministry planned to start in Bulgaria after two years? However, it turned out that it could be done immediately and a 70-year-old man had a lung and is currently living because of this lung transplant. And now that we've eliminated this guy, and the other directors, what do we do with what they could do? Is this the solution to the problems we currently have in health care? What are your motives for obeying this order? Come on, let's say the Prime Minister is acting in PR, he's looking at the problem right now, let's fire them all. Okay, he's gonna fire them, but you're gonna have to take care of them later, and they're gonna have to treat them. Okay, well, we're gonna take them out, and what do we all get as patients from this whole thing, and this is the way out of the crisis, do you think?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I'll start backwards. Since it has been repeated several times and we know that sometimes the repeat is confirmed in people as true when I said that the first transplant will be done in 2020 at the end or at the beginning of 2021, I meant that this lung transplant will be done by a Bulgarian team, an entirely Bulgarian team. You know that this transplant was done with the help of a team from Hanover, which is, of course, very nice, and this is part of the way we have to go until we build the capacity in our country. On your main question. The University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment and Emergency Medicine "Pirogov" "Sofia," the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases "Prof. Ivan Mitev "Sofia" and Lozenets "Lozenets" Hospital are independent legal entities of state institutions. The operational management of all activities and processes in them shall be carried out by the selected management bodies. In this sense, the overall responsibility for their management in compliance with current legislation and good practices is borne by the director of the relevant medical establishment. In connection with the tragic incident in which three-year-old Aleksandar died and in order not to prevent the competent authorities from collecting objective information and reviewing all the facts and circumstances relevant to the case, the directors applied for unpaid leave for the time during which my appointment to the three medical establishments took place. Since I assessed the proposal of the directors of the three hospitals as correct and timely, as a principal of the two hospitals, I respected their desire to leave on unpaid annual leave. I find that with this behavior they cooperated to the maximum extent for the transparent and objective conduct of the verification. The final report of the inspection carried out, which I entrusted to the Executive Agency, as well as the accompanying constitutional protocols and independent expertise, clearly shows that there are no deficiencies in the diagnostic and medical process conducted by the three medical institutions. Upon completion of the verification, I can inform you that at the moment, the directors of all three medical institutions are performing their duties. Right after that meeting you were talking about earlier, I invited the three principals to my office. They really supported this approach with a view to creating the best conditions and not interfering, although I am convinced that they would not have any impact. They wanted to go on unpaid leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u185	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u186	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I think what you're saying to me is yes, people are like that. After all, their job in my opinion is not to check, their job is to treat, by the way, it is also your.. in the sense that they will complete the check and that they will not make it difficult to check. I ask you: how do you facilitate treatment and not verification with this action? I apologize, but yesterday or the other day was the Prime Minister's conversation with the nurses, where they come to tell him that he has deep health problems and they don't get their money, and he says: "There are some doctors who will check on them again. " - Yes, you will check on them again. We're probably gonna kick someone out of work again, let them go on vacation, or we're gonna fire them. So what? Does this make our health care any better? Currently, the prime minister, led by populism and by misunderstanding, is leading you in the absolutely wrong direction, because one of the main health problems is that we do not have doctors, that these doctors are undermotivated and underpaid and that all this leads to severe crises. And instead of going to solve the problem where it is, you come in all the time and it brings you into the idea that you have to do checks and that you have to go through some very strong control to twist their necks. Why? On top of all of this, mistrust and hatred of doctors all the time, which leads to aggression in hospitals, which leads to a different attitude towards these people, which ultimately leads to the fact that they end up saying: "Look at your work! I'm going to private practice, or I'm going to work in Germany. This is a problem, a key problem for health care. And that's why I'm telling you, that's why I'm asking you about your motives. Come on, he's acting like he saw a fire, put it out. He thinks it's the right thing to do. But you have another responsibility in my opinion. The key word in the Prime Minister's speech is............................................................................................ There must be retribution. I agree that there must be retribution because people who have devoted their entire lives to medicine who have saved hundreds of lives should be retributed not in this way. That's not the approach to them. A deeply wrong approach to which the Prime Minister is pushing you! I understand why he makes it pure populism! I don't understand why you're buying this?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u188	Dear Mr. Kutev, in my opinion, the policy that the Ministry of Health should conduct should go in both directions that you are talking about. On the one hand, to create all the necessary conditions so that we can stabilize the human resources problem in the system. In this direction, the Ministry of Health, you know that it is developing regulations that create conditions for the specialization of doctors, to increase the number of specialists in these professions in which they are very few or absent in certain regions. On the other hand, together with the Ministry of Education and Science for the second year, we have foreseen an increase in both the number of medical students, so we also increase the number of residents, and we also provide for an opportunity for nurses during the second two years of their practical training to work on the ground, in hospitals, where they will both help the respective medical establishment, simultaneously acquire experience and knowledge, and receive additional remuneration. It's on one side. On the other hand, like the Ministry, which still needs to create all the necessary conditions to ensure the full, complete, comprehensive treatment of Bulgarian citizens when we see that there is a problem somewhere and that there is a breach of good medical practice, we cannot fail to carry out the control activities. This does not mean, however, that the whole system is such. These are separate cases in which we are obliged to carry out the appropriate verification and if it turns out that there is any infringement, depending on the infringement they follow and the corresponding sanctions will be by the Ministry, whether they will be by the investigative authorities, but we still need to ensure really good medical practices in healthcare. I don't want to collect these two things. We work both. Again, the fact that there are separate cases where there is a breach should not put a black mark on the system. People who work in healthcare, in the majority, not to say most of them, are really honest and worthy Bulgarians and doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u189	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue by the MP Krum Zarkov concerning the shortage of existing treatment programs, psychosocial rehabilitation and re-socialization of drug addicts and the need for laboratory equipment to identify new psychotropic substances. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the Council of Ministers is about to examine the Draft Decision on the adoption of a new National Anti-Drug Strategy, which should cover the period 2019 - 2023. The Strategy should systematise the vision, principles, objectives and activities that define the overall policy of the state in countering the spread and use of drugs. It is planned as a horizontal initiative of 14 ministries and agencies with the leading role of the Ministry of Health. My specific questions to this strategy relate to two worrying findings in it. It is noted in the report that existing treatment programmes and psychosocial rehabilitation are insufficient to meet the needs of treatment, rehabilitation and re-socialization of drug addicts and that about 30 thousand Bulgarian citizens who need such treatment in relation to drug use pass through the treatment system annually only about 7 thousand. It is further down in the Strategy, in the section "Analysis of the activities in the field of reducing drug supply', that our country does not currently have a suitable and meeting international requirements for technology capacity laboratory and it is necessary to purchase modern equipment for analysis of drugs with biological samples and which should be used in the various laboratories in our country. Therefore, Mr. Minister, my question is: is the purchase of the necessary equipment in the strategy soon foreseen, and what are the measures that the Ministry of Health will take to overcome the shortage of existing treatment programmes, psychosocial rehabilitation and re-socialization of drug addicts in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, in 1995 at the State Psychiatric Hospital for the treatment of drug addicts and alcoholism was opened the first program for the treatment of addicted patients. Currently, 30 treatment programs are in place in the country with agonists and agonists-agonists of opioid-dependent individuals with 4144 authorised sites. These programs have 984 seats available. Psychosocial rehabilitation is carried out through an outpatient daily care program, daycare centers for psychosocial rehabilitation type therapeutic community, model "Minesota" and others. The activities are carried out by the State Psychiatric Hospital for the treatment of drug addiction and alcoholism, mental health centres and non-governmental organizations that have been agreed to implement these programmes. Currently, 14 programmes are in operation, which have been agreed to carry out psychosocial rehabilitation under Ordinance No 8 of 27 June 2018 on health counseling activities, preventive examinations and investigations of persons over 16 years of age. The implementation of the Action Plan to the National Anti-narcotics Strategy is financed by the state budget within the budget of the institutions concerned by funds delegated by the State activities, with natural value indicators, funds allocated by municipal budgets and by programmes of other ministries and departments. In the new National Anti-Drug Strategy 2020, 2024, taking into account the situation and with a view to giving priority to the development of the healing psychosocial activity and overcoming the shortage of treatment programmes and psychosocial rehabilitation, it is possible to detect and increase the number of those involved. It is also intended to improve the quality of services through training and continuing qualification of experts working in the programmes. For this activity, 5 million are at stake. 458 thousand. BGN 458. for the period of implementation of the Strategy. Regarding the purchase of the necessary equipment to identify new psychoactive substances, I inform you that at present, research laboratories at the Research Institute of Crime and Criminology and the Military Medical Academy are conducting research on biological samples for drugs. The new Strategy provides for the purchase of analytical equipment to increase the technological capacity of the toxicochemical laboratories of the Military Medical Academy, amounting to 220 thousand. lv. It is also intended to purchase a new portable analyst to determine the presence of drugs and tranquilizers in saliva samples and consumables thereof for the laboratory at the State Psychiatric Hospital for the treatment of drug addiction and alcoholism worth 91 thousand. £650. The introduction of new technical resources for the needs of the Customs Agency is also envisaged and the maintenance of existing ones worth 18 million. 406 thousand. lv. I hope that the necessary means of carrying out the activities provided for in the National Strategy for Combating Drugs will be provided in full in order to fulfil the indicators set out in the Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u193	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Zarkov, if you wish, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm going to take this opportunity to ask additional questions. I am satisfied with the second part of the answer in which you have explained what means for which equipment will be needed. It's clear why the authorities need these things. It is also clear in the Strategy that there is a terrible dynamic of the emergence of all new and new substances that need to be analysed in due time in order for the regulatory framework to evolve, so let us stick to this plan and ensure this equipment. However, I would like to draw attention to the first part of your response in which you have defined the large number of programmes that exist and where they are developing. However, this does not change the fact that, in the Strategy itself, which you present to the Council of Ministers, it is clearly noted that they are not enough or at least there is a problem to such a extent that many of the people who would need the users of these programmes do not reach them for one reason or another. Therefore, it seems to me that we need much deeper insight into the reasons why from 30,000 needy according to the Strategy only 7,000 go through the large number of over 30 programs, as you said, which were created by the state to help these people, first, to heal and then overcome the consequences of their drug addiction. One more question: You mentioned about the National Strategy for Combating Drugs 2020 - 2024. In the Project, which is submitted to the Public Discussion Site in the Council of Ministers, the years are different and the funding of the individual activities should be implemented annually according to the approved funds of the budget of the respective departments, as has already become clear, your is leading. My additional question is: do you think there will be a delay in adopting this strategy? In your budget for this year, do you have the funds to start its implementation?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, it is natural that the government adopts a medium-term three-year budget forecast, which provides for the implementation of the policies of the different ministries and offices in the medium term. This three-year medium-term programme contains the necessary funds both in the budget of the Ministry of Health and the other institutions, which I mentioned a little bit earlier in my exhibition. With regard to the need of 30,000 people, and 7,000 people are undergoing this treatment, I have to tell you that there are relevant expert advices that assess which of these 30,000 people can pass on this type of treatment and which should go in another way of treatment, because there are those with different programs, for example, the Metadon program, can be cured. There are others who need to go to another type of medical facility. So the experts have decided. Even you have seen that in one of the programs there are about 900 vacancies, which means let the experts judge. In any case, if an increase is required and we are convinced that it has the effect of this treatment, at least it is to increase the scope of the Programme in order to be able to treat more Bulgarian citizens who need this kind of help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Andon Donchev on the scope of Regulation No 12 of 16 November 2018 on health requirements for public washing machines. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in his reply to a question, No 954-06-582 of 14 June 2019 concerning the provision of art. 10 of Ordinance No 12 on health requirements for public washing machines you informed us that after the promulgation of this regulation in the Official Journal of the Ministry of Health have received proposals from representatives of different sectors related to the requirements of art. 10 of the Ordinance. In this regard, as early as early as February 2019, you have taken action to refine the texts of the said provision and to apply it only if there is a technical possibility for the already constructed and put into service under the Law on the Construction of the Area of Public Laundromats. In this regard, it is my question to you: at what stage are the actions to refine the said provision of art. 10 of the ordinance? When will the change in its scope be a fact? As the current provision continues to hamper the activities of the small business, especially those owners of guest houses and small hotels, which have already revealed office washing machines and have no technical opportunity to reorganise their existing premises or their conversion, would result in significant costs and losses for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, as you know, art. 10 of Regulation No 12 on health requirements for public washing machines regulates the requirements for the light height of the premises in public washing machines. In view of the proposals made by representatives of different sectors related to difficulties in implementing them, we took action in February 2019 to refine the texts. A supplement to Regulation No 12 of 16 November 2018 on health requirements for public washing machines was published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 97 of 10 December 2019. Paragraph 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions provides for an exception to the requirements of art. 10 which will be applied only in the case of technical possibilities for public washing machines revealed until the Act enters into force. The coordination procedure is in the final phase, so we believe that soon we will be able to apply the requirements in practice, i.e. the exceptions that are prepared on the basis of art. 10 of the Ordinance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u201	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u202	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am pleased that, after all, although delayed, the relevant changes to the provision have entered into force. Only the question arises in such a case of the regulation already drawn up by those regulations. There are a number of prescriptions drawn up to companies, to hotels. What should they do from now on in order not to be sanctioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Do you have a wish for a doppelganger? No. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Milen Mihov concerning the cases of systematic harassment of those living in Veliko Tarnovo, 7 Denyo Chokanov Street, bl. 13 by mentally ill neighbors. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u204	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my capacity as MP from the Veliko Tarnovo Election Region, I was familiar with a question that has a multiannual history. We are talking about systematic harassment, which are subjected to those living in Veliko Tarnovo on the street of Denyo Chokanov bl. 13 by mentally ill neighbors. Maybe by accident, but there's more than one case of citizens suffering from mental illness in the bloc. The citizens' exhibition describes many cases of long-standing harassment and risks to their health and life. Since 2009, numerous cases have been filed against one of the sick. In an attempt to stop it repeatedly, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have been alerted and all media have reported similar cases. A final step has been taken by those living at the entrance of the General Assembly on 31 October this year, with which everyone unanimously agreed that it must be excavated under the Law on Floor Property. This individual case, unfortunately, is not the only one. In the last few months alone, we have been informed by the media about several incidents, attacks and even murders of people with mental illness. Dear Minister, on the basis of the above, I ask you to answer the following questions: what is the legal framework governing forced treatment in psychiatry, and do changes need to be made in order to resolve such cases? Second, what measures are needed to improve the care for mentally ill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, mandatory accommodation and treatment of persons with psychiatric disorders is regulated in the Health Act, Chapter Five. Persons with psychiatric disorders who may commit a crime because of their illness, which poses a danger to their loved ones, to others, to society or seriously endanger their health, are subject to mandatory accommodation and treatment. The mandatory accommodation and treatment of persons with psychiatric disorders shall be decided by the Regional Court at the current address of the person or by the Regional Court at the location of the medical establishment. The court shall send copies of the request for compulsory accommodation and treatment to the person whose accommodation is to be examined. The person may object within 7 days and provide evidence. The Court shall examine the case in open court with the participation of the person within 14 days of receipt of the request. Where an authorisation has been granted by the regional court, the court shall examine the case immediately. The transcripts shall be served at the hearing and the head of the medical establishment shall ensure that the person appears. The involvement of a psychiatrist, a defender and a prosecutor is mandatory. The person whose accommodation is requested must be questioned in person and, if necessary, brought into force. Where the health status of the person does not permit him to appear at the hearing, the court shall be obliged to gain an immediate impression of his or her condition. The Court of Justice shall appoint a forensic psychiatric examination following a hearing of a psychiatrist concerning the possible presence of a person's mental disorder and shall determine the fojorma of the conduct of an expert report on an issuer or a stand-alone one. If the court finds after hearing a psychiatrist that there is no mental disorder of the person, the court shall dismiss the case. The order of the court to dismiss the case or to appoint the expert shall be subject to appeal within three days. After hearing the person about the conclusion of a judicial psychiatric examination, the court shall rule on the case by decision on the basis of the evidence collected on the need for compulsory accommodation, determine the medical establishment as well as the presence or absence of the ability of the person to express informed consent. The court shall determine the time limit for accommodation and treatment, as well as the form of treatment. When accepting a lack of ability of the person, the court shall order mandatory treatment and appoint a person within the circle of the loved ones of the patient to express informed consent to the treatment. In the event of a conflict of interest or in the absence of a close contact, the court shall appoint a representative of the municipal Health Service or a person appointed by the mayor of the municipality on the seat of the medical establishment to express an informed consent for the treatment of the person. The compulsory accommodation and treatment decision entered into force, as well as the definition of the court for the appointment of a judicial psychiatric examination, shall be implemented by the institutions concerned, if necessary, with the assistance of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The mental health policy for people with mental illness poses many challenges, as it concerns patients, relatives and society as a whole. The legislation should regulate and ensure respect for the civil rights and freedoms of all actors in society, including patients with mental illness. In relation to the development of a draft strategy in the field of mental health and the need to assess and take action in relation to cases of crimes committed by persons with mental disorders, an interdepartmental working group was established by order of the Minister of Health, including representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Justice. The main task of the working group is to discuss the condition and analyse the need for regulatory and factual changes in the area of mandatory accommodation and treatment of persons with mental disorders with a view to preparing an algorithm of behavior by all institutions involved in mandatory accommodation and treatment of persons with mental disorders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u207	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for this very detailed response procedure because you have presented how heavy it is, how difficult it is, how long this procedure is and it raises quite serious questions. In the particular case in which I wrote to you, this procedure has been passed several times. After temporary placement in a hospital, after the patient's exit, his passing, care for him remains only to his relatives, if any, or to his own will, or his own abilities, which re-replicates the problem. I hope that this working group, which they have created by your order, will find the right solutions, because in the balance of the protection of the interests of the patient on the other side is the protection of the citizens, and above all, the interest of the patient is that he receives treatment adequate, permanent, and does not pose a threat, above all, to himself and to other citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. For the doppelganger? No. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov on the state of the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In recent days and weeks, we have witnessed several disturbing signals from the mother of all university hospitals - Alexandrovska, one of the colleagues had declared a hunger strike, which are related to numerous problems in the functioning of separate units of the hospital, which as a professor who reads lectures in it and almost every week I am there, actually at the moment seems to be one thing, I do not want to say the exact word, state. My question to you, I will further develop it a little later, is what is your vision and what are your specific measures that you will take in the coming months, in the next calendar year, so that this hospital can truly acquire this halo, which it has at a major university hospital in Bulgaria, where they are raised not to say hundreds, dozens of generations of Bulgarian doctors who have glorified Bulgaria far from its borders? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. PRESENT CRISIAN VIGENIN: Thank you, dear Professor Mihailov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, on the question you have received regarding the condition of the University Hospital for Active Treatment, and the associated treatment options for patients in the medical establishment, I would like to inform you of the following. The University Hospital of Alexandrovska has its established authority in the hospital care system in Bulgaria. With its multi-profile spectrum, highly qualified staff, with the modern medical equipment at its disposal, Alexandrovska Hospital remains today one of the leaders in the development of Bulgarian medicine and Bulgarian science. The hospital employs 470 doctors, of which 30 professors, 51 PhDs, over 160 PhDs, PhDs, PhDs and PhDs. 116 young doctors are trained in the medical facility to receive a specialty. More than 25 million were invested in the hospital during the period 2012-201. lv. In repairs. Complete repairs were made in 13 of the hospital structures. During this period significant investments in medical equipment have been made in all structures of the hospital. The total value of the equipment provided for the period is more than 45 million. BGN, with the majority of the funds received under a project of the hospital funded by the Operational Program. The building fund of UMHAL is composed of 24 buildings built between 1898 and 2009. Undoubtedly some of the buildings are in poor condition and need major repairs, which depend on the availability of a source of funding, but it is also complicated by the fact that the whole complex of Alexandrovska Hospital has the status of a monument of culture. At present, the Ministry of Health has already provided funds to the repair facility, to re-stock the Clinic of Allergology in the premises of the Clinic of Skin Disease and to repair the Clinic of Hematology of a total of 1 million. Three hundred thousand. leva. Means of repair and furnishing of the Clinic of Psychiatry, for purchase of equipment of the Histological Laboratory, for the Clinic of Hemodialysis, and for three new elevator systems totaling 700 thousand. lv. One of the priorities in the investment program of the medical establishment is the repair of the building of the Department of Pedeutics of Internal Diseases, of the Clinic of Skin and Venereal Diseases, as well as of the Clinic of Allergology. I assure you that the Ministry of Health, together with the management of the hospital, will make efforts to enable the working conditions of medical professionals to be significantly improved and the patients of the medical institution to receive highly qualified medical care in modern conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u212	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Minister, even yesterday and the previous days, when we had already sent the question to you, another of the other irregularities appeared in Alexandrovska Hospital, right in the block of which you mentioned, the Department of Pedeeutics of Internal Diseases is now not working and the elevator, there was a meeting with promises about an elevator, which is in a weeping state and which, in practice, provides the transportation of sick people, as there are several clinics that are essential. I don't want to go into details, Minister. And if you enter the territory of Alexandrovska Hospital, I am convinced that you have entered securely in the last two years as a principal, it reminds me of the civil war in Lebanon. There is a huge hole dug in the center that I don't know why it's been standing for almost two years without any construction in it, and it's foreseen, you see, with this building fund, which you said was in a very sad state, building an administrative building at Sofia Medical University. Is this what Alexandrovska Hospital and Medical University needs, like such a paradox there is also in another huge university hospital outside Sofia, on which its roofs flow, and it has an extremely modern educational base that is for lecture courses? On one side is the already controversial between us from the discussions Pediatrics from 40 years ago, on the other side stands an even more ancient monument of the Institute of Academician Maleev. I was a student when he was abandoned and until now he has no solution to this question. In the middle is Pathophysiology, which was provided through a program to create a Center for Cell Therapy. And at the center, as a paradox of everything, smokes the incinerator, which creates an extra arduous feeling. Mr. Minister, my life has been through a lot of it in this hospital. I was raised there as a student, I know who the teachers who taught us and who their teachers were. It's really very ugly what Alexandrovska Hospital is right now. And in order not to go in with you, as a person who has known the health problems for many years, in a conversation, it is obvious what the state is at the moment, regardless of the millions of which you refer to individual units that have been renovated, a comprehensive solution must be found, to seek a vision strategy, as this hospital, I can tell you, the Ministry has already given you huge funds for diagnostic on-line equipment, but it does not have an oncology ward that deals with strategic treatment of oncology. There are separate fragments of it in the field of surgery, for example, but there is no overall unfolding complexity, as we say in medicine? This is very important at the moment. In other words, a vision of the Ministry is needed, which is the principal of this hospital, which, again, I say, is the person. When a person remembers the history of medicine in Bulgaria, he always pops up the building with this arch that was built, as you said, at the beginning of the last century. Therefore, I ask you to be purer in heart: address the problems of this hospital and its management and hopefully they will be resolved within the foreseeable time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u214	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Mihailov, we maintain very close contacts with Associate Professor Angelov, we see each other very often. At the same time, we are doing a longer-term program related to improving the hospital's material and technical base, so we are really working in this direction that you are talking about. Yes, there are difficulties in terms of being a cultural monument, that everything to be done requires appropriate permits and requires much more money. Of course, we also take into account the budget we have for the Ministry of Health, because there are still 62 other medical facilities in it. But we didn't stop here anyway, like I stopped with my report. We have a vision for the next three years what to do with Alexandrovska Hospital. As for that building that we have such big disputes about with you, you will see what a wonderful modern and modern hospital it will become. It's just that when it becomes the project, and it's working right now, you'll see really that we shouldn't have had this argument. By the way, for the Institute there, we're also doing surveillance on the building, so we're not stalling there either.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u216	Thank you, dear Minister, I am tempted to say that we have been talking about another new hospital for some time now, but we will ask you questions next year. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova regarding the non-exercised right to the choice of a doctor from a medical institution from primary outpatient medical care...................................................................................... Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u217	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! In accordance with art. 4, para. 3 of the Ordinance on the exercise of the right of access to medical care issued under art. 81, para. 3 of the Health Act, the choice of a doctor for outpatient medical care is personal, such as for minors and those placed under full or restricted detention, the choice is made by their parents or guardians, respectively with the consent of their parents or guardians. Despite the free access to a personal physician, I mean Plovdiv District, which I did not quote in my question that there are children who are not covered by general practitioners and qualified specialists. This prevents adequate follow-up of children's development as well as the application of early childhood intervention at the first symptoms of delayed development or deficiency in children with development difficulties. In view of this, Dear Minister, I would like to be answered by the question: is there also how many children from the general practitioners in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are not covered, and I have indicated an indicative date of June 30, 2019, what measures will you take to implement the access to quality medical care for all children of the Republic of Bulgaria and what is the policy of the Ministry of Health for the implementation of control aimed at incorrect parents, guardians or guardians?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u218	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Naydenova! As of 30 June 2019 by registered in the National database "Population", living "1 450 253 persons aged from zero to 18 years," 188 981 persons had no registered choice of personal physician; for 26 085 of these persons there was registered second citizenship except Bulgarian and for 5065 persons was registered first citizenship other than Bulgarian. In accordance with art. 4, para. 1 and 3 of the Ordinance on the exercise of the right of access to medical care, health insured persons are free to choose a doctor in a medical facility for primary medical outpatient care throughout the country, which has concluded a contract with the NHIF. For minors, the choice shall be made by their parents or guardians, respectively with the consent of their parents or guardians. It is clear from the provisions that this is a right, not an obligation for persons. Each calendar year from 1 to 30 June and from 1 to 31 December health insured persons may change their choice as a general practitioner. The same shall be required to provide medical assistance to the health insured person from the date on which the choice is made and the health insured person shall be included in his patient list from that date. In order to provide quality medical assistance in the responsibilities of the general practitioner, the implementation of the Programme is implemented. An opportunity is allowed if a parent or guardian of minors chooses a general practitioner who is not an acquired specialty in pediatrics, this programme is to be performed by a specialist physician such as the personal physician issuing a one-time course for the initial selection of a specialist in pediatrics. In case a parent or guardian wishes to change the doctor of pediatrics leading the Programme, the personal physician shall issue a re-election course to a performer with a doctor specializing in pediatrics under the Programme. For individuals up to the age of 18, there is a limitless issuance of a direction by the general practitioner on the occasion of acute condition for consultation with a doctor with an acquired specialty in pediatrics, children's gastroenterology, children's endocrinology and exchange diseases, children's cardiology, clinical allergenology and children's diseases, children's clinical haematology and oncology, children's neurology and haemodialysis, children's pneumology and phthasia, children's psychiatry, children's rheumatology and children's surgery in any acute disease. Accessible medical care is the right of every patient to violate this right is a sanction regulated in the Health Act. The control bodies in this area are also legally designated, namely the Executive Agency of the Medical Supervision and Regional Health Inspections. As can be seen from the above, there are mechanisms on the legal side to protect children's health rights. It should be borne in mind that medical services are carried out not only by an elected general practitioner. There are other means of health care, namely, its timely provision is important for children's health. Although the presence of an elected general practitioner facilitates medical care for patients, the health welfare of the child is essential and not the approach of its implementation chosen by the parents. There are opportunities for the provision of paid medical services for the use of free assistance in emergency situations, for the introduction of vaccines from regional health inspections. Nevertheless, we share the view that the choice of a general practitioner is the optimal way to organise effective access to healthcare and we believe that parents should be encouraged to realise their right to choose one for their children. The absence of an elected general practitioner does not automatically mean that parents do not take care of children's health, that in the event of the need for medical care organize its provision by other means of accessibility to medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u220	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line, Mrs. Naydenova? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u221	Dear Minister, I understand that efforts are being made in this direction, but when the child reaches and touches our health system. I think that we need to work mostly preventively, and it pays attention in close contact with health mediators, so that we can monitor this process and less and less account for a number of children who have not chosen their general practitioner, not when this is necessary for health reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u222	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. I don't think there's any need for a duvet here. We are actually continuing with you the last question for today to the Minister about the existence of legal definitions in the current laws governing public relations in the National Health System. You have the floor, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u223	Dear Minister, colleagues! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the legislator uses a number of terms such as: the free use of medical care services, the health care services and other terms which are not developed in the basic laws governing public relations in the National Health System, such as the Health Act, the Health Services Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Act, the Value Added Tax Act and others In the above applicable laws are also used such terms as a health service, a medical service, a medical service and others, directly related to health (medical) services and health (medical) services. Out of all the already listed terms, only the medical care and health care activities have a legitimate definition in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Insurance Act. The lack of a legal definition that clearly describes the meaning or defines the scope of the act, the boundaries of the concept, the subject of application and so on directly influences the definition and implementation of public relations in healthcare. According to the provisions of the Bulgarian legislation, the legal definition is allowed to be given in a sub-legal regulation when one is absent in the acts of some law, but the legal definition applies only to the law or regulation in which it is given. The absence of legal definitions in the current legislation regulating the National Health System creates a number of problems related to system management, medical institutions, public finances and, notice, colleagues My question to you, Mr. Minister, is: what is your attitude towards the absence of legitimate definitions in the current legislation regulating public relations in the National Health System of the Republic of Bulgaria and, most importantly, will you propose to the National Assembly in the next legislative initiatives implemented by you legal definitions of the terminology used according to their exact meaning so as to comply with your policy of realization of health in the Republic of Bulgaria and within what time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Naydenova! The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria provides for special protection of the health of citizens, treating it as an exceptional public value. For the purpose of art. 52, para. 3 of the Constitution the state is obliged to protect the health of the citizens and with art. 52, para. 1 the fundamental rights of the citizens are also introduced.. the right of health insurance guaranteeing them affordable medical care and their right to free use of medical care. In those provisions, the Constitution deals with the terms of health insurance, affordable medical care, free use of medical services. The legislator did not consider it necessary to introduce at a constitutional level special content of all these terms. Legal acts for the purposes of establishment shall be subject to the rule laid down in art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts, according to which the provisions are formulated in the common Bulgarian language short, precise and clear. The health of citizens is defined as a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being with art. 2 of the Health Act. Protecting the health of Bulgarian citizens is a national priority. The state fulfils its constitutional obligations to lay down by law the conditions and procedures for exercising the right of citizens to health insurance through regulation in the Health Insurance Act. As the Constitutional Court points out, there is no doubt that the right to available medical assistance is the fundamental social benefit to which the right to health insurance is reduced. The Constitutional Court has ruled unconditionally and permanently in a series of its decisions on the content of the concept of accessible medical assistance. This is medical assistance, whose price can be paid by any citizen when he needs it for his health and equal conditions and equal opportunities for using the treatment. In this sense, by virtue of art. 4, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act, compulsory health insurance guarantees free access of insured persons to medical care through a defined by type, scope and volume package of health activities, as well as free choice of contractor. For the purposes of defining the package of health activities with the Law, the notions of health work are also defined, of medical care, of medical care and of medical care. The package is determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health, given its specificity and dynamics with a view to ensuring the health of citizens. The constitutional right of citizens to free use of medical care is ensured, on the one hand, through the compulsory health insurance system and, on the other, under the Health Act. In conclusion, the system for providing medical assistance is based on legally defined principles and rules, including with the help of the cited legal definitions that support their formulation, there is also a rich lasting practice of the Constitutional Court. Nevertheless, I am prepared to discuss with all interested parties possible uncertainties and inaccuracies of the regulatory framework and I am available for debate on proposals and opinions. I believe that our main efforts should focus on encouraging those involved in the health system to apply the rules precisely and irreconcilably, for which guidance and effective control should be given. I assure you that we are working on a targeted optimization of enforcement mechanisms both through the control authorities in the healthcare system and by promoting interaction between all actors in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. Do you have a cue? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u227	Dear Minister, you will agree that it is very difficult to do an analysis of something that has been accepted by previous folk meetings, and therefore it may seem a little less serious, but still a modest example in the table that I have applied, from my study of this terminology I take the floor to say just this. We have been watching closely the legislation since we are in this National Assembly concerning healthcare in the Republic of Bulgaria, and I would just like to refer you and your specialists to a decree called First, it gives you a right to art. 18, where it says that the Ministry of Justice indicates assistance to the other ministries and departments in drafting and discussing draft laws which the Council of Ministers will submit to the National Assembly, as well as in para. 2: The Council of Ministers may instruct the Ministry of Justice to indicate assistance in designing and discussing projects for other regulatory acts. In this case you are in a better position, as there will be someone to help you, and we will have to work a little harder. But I think that in the general direction it will be possible for at least for the National Assembly to demand our laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u228	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? No. That concludes the questions for you. This is the last control for you this year. I think you set a record today. Against this background, let's wish you health first of all next year!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u229	To all Members of the National Assembly, I wish wonderful, bright, wonderful and beautiful holidays and Christian and New Year's Eve, be alive and well You and your families!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u230	I allow myself from the microphones on behalf of everyone to thank you. We wish you the same! We do a little dislocation in the Program: the Minister of Labour and Social Policy has only one question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the salaries of workers in the social sphere. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u231	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, I specify that my question is from before the adoption of the 2020 budget, including the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I specify that it was asked to another minister, but I am sure that it is still up to date after the adoption of this budget, and after the change of the minister, because the experts and specialists working in the social sphere are especially at the Social Assistance Agency and the Employment Agency with the lowest salaries in the public, public sector, as we are used to call it. The rest of the social workers working on providing social services by municipalities are in an even more implausible situation. The share of workers in social services on minimum wage increases. As the minimum wage increases from next year is almost certain that this increase will become even more significant. Really low pay is demotivating to workers in the social sphere. It is particularly sensitive to them that in the other sectors, I quote in this case education, but there are other sectors, the increase in remuneration in the last year, and also in the previous few years, is much higher. All this makes the profession of the social worker unattractive and unwanted and leads to turnover, it is difficult to find them willing to work both as specialists and experts and as working directly on the provision of social services. This leads to the inability to increase the quality of social services and the satisfaction of the people who provide and use them. The growth of staff costs in the social sphere must be considered, on the one hand, as an instrument for the motivation of those working therein, and, on the other, as an element of the policy of retention of prepared and motivated personnel and to increase the interest in the profession of a social worker. In this regard, please provide me with information: what measures and actions does the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy undertake to achieve an adequate level of pay for workers in the social sphere? Do you plan to change the amount of basic and monthly remuneration? What concrete measures will you take to increase the salaries of social workers in 2020 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, for the period 2016 to 2020 Within the framework of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year concerned, the staff costs of the Social Assistance Agency have been increased by a total of 29.7 million. lv. or 69%, and for the Employment Agency, a total of 10.9 million. BGN, or a total of 57%. In accordance with the provision of art. 79 of the Decree of the Council of Ministers No 8 of 2015 and in view of the reduced by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 the staff costs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy decreased sharply and the staff costs of the Agency for Social Assistance by 9.3%, respectively, of the Employment Agency by 9.8%. Low wages remain the most important problem for the personnel stability of all structures in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy system and at the moment the monthly salaries continue to be among the lowest in the sector, their administrative capacity and their normal functioning are seriously threatened, as well as the successful implementation of the reforms carried out in the sector. That is why the proposal and the increase this year were adopted by 15% of the salaries of workers in the social sphere. This is, of course, not enough yet, and we will continue to look for opportunities as well as through the Human Resources Development Operational Programme, so we will continue to protect and in the future increase the salaries of workers in this sector, as in this year the responsibilities and commitments have increased further in connection with the implementation and implementation of the new Law on people with disabilities and the Law on personal assistance. Social workers carry out admissions to citizens, process applications, declarations on different legal grounds, check these declared data, attached documents, carry out social surveys at the homes of persons and families, process each paper file and in a programme product, draw up payrolls and lists for the payment of benefits and supplements and so on. At all stages of budgetary procedures in recent years, we are looking for such political solutions and opportunities to provide additional funds to the Ministry for staff costs. In particular, for 2020 the increase in staff costs under the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy budget will result in an increase of 15.9 million. This is for the Social Assistance Agency, respectively, and the Employment Agency will allocate total staff costs of 13 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u234	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Mrs. Sacheva, Dear Members of Parliament! Satisfied with your answer in the part in which you acknowledge and see, and you acknowledge that low wages in the social sphere are a problem, as well as for personnel development, as well as for the quality of the social services provided. It must be a strong word, but I am pleasantly surprised that you put first as a new minister in the social sphere the quality of social services, and it directly depends on the pay of employees in the social sphere when they have the satisfaction of the work, the pay they receive, they will also provide more quality services. That we understand the problem, you understand the problem, and you see it, and you act on it is a necessary condition to solve the problem, but it is not enough. When I say not enough, I mean that the whole Council of Ministers and the Bulgarian society should be involved with this problem. Because at the moment, for a number of reasons that are due, no, of course, to you as a minister, not even to this government, but they are accumulated over the years, that the work of social workers is somehow neglected and has not achieved the necessary public recognition for this work, so society may not be ready to talk and support such actions. I just want to tell you, and as an additional question, I assume that you are familiar with one of their requests, I think it was formulated two or three years ago, it is up to date and now, it is recorded in 16.. 17 points in which their demands are formulated. It is quite long, and I cannot represent it from this tribune, but I will just say that it is for a decent pay of the labour of social workers and employees in the territorial institutions of Social Assistance and improving the conditions under which they work. I would like to draw attention to the fact that they explain the importance of their work, that they serve nearly three million people, Bulgarians. It is important to say that they do not speak in this request only for salaries and only for salaries, but talk about working conditions, professional development, professional recognition and so on. I am sure that you, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, have an interest in your employees or in the departments of which you are chief, so to speak, to receive, have an interest in receiving more dignified and higher salaries. Another question is how will you manage to fight it there to receive, as in education, more than that. Because I say that these five million and those 5%, which will increase above the other civil servants, does not in any case compensate for the difference in public pay. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u237	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I agree with what you said. An interest in improving the working conditions in the social sphere, of course, I do not have in personal quality as a minister, but the whole society in Bulgaria, and that is precisely why in recent days I have appealed for more reason and for more pragmatic view of the Social Services Act. Because the Social Services Act should do just that to improve, to create conditions for improving the quality of social services. Part of the legislative framework in this law is that there is a regulation on the career development of social workers, on standards for social services, and that we can work on the issue of increasing the remuneration of these people. I am pleased that you have bound my opportunities to lobby for higher remuneration within the government and to convince my colleagues of the public image that social workers have, because this is undoubtedly extremely important. I think this should be a common task for us, because in recent months, a campaign has been going on to demonise the image of social workers, something that is totally undeserved. Indeed, they work with almost half the population in the country and work with extremely severe problems. We must show and say this is what the welfare of this profession and the mission they carry out. So in this regard, I count on your support, too, because this is extremely important and there should not be a question of political opposition on topics that should actually unite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u238	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. I will probably see you tomorrow, but this is your last participation in parliamentary control, for which I thank you. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov. I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that today the parliamentary control will continue until all questions are exhausted to him and to Minister Desislava Taneva. The first question is from the National Representative Anton Kutev about a signal for buying votes in the Iskar region. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u239	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question was asked more than a month ago in the context of the local elections and, basically, is based on a signal issued by citizens on 8 November, i.e. during the elections. After the election ended, they came across security camera footage showing meetings of the candidate mayor for the Iskar Ivaylo Tsekov region with persons who, according to the applicants' claim, were known for their attempts for an unregulated impact on the elections...........................................and bought vote................................... It's about the cameras filming these faces and the candidate for mayor talking systematically. I saw that you closed the investigation, which is good, because you're going to tell me how I saw a document that was sent back to the applicants, and you're going to tell me what it says. I insist on the question, because I am very interested in what the candidate mayor is saying to such individuals during the election campaign. Of course, there's a theoretical possibility that they were discussing the latest collection of the Victoria Secret or the Happy Sox, but I personally don't suspect that it is. I believe that the interests of the candidates and of these people coincide on some other line. The fact that the applicants did not provide you with evidence of the other line on which they coincide, I think it is more than normal. After all, these are people who don't have investigative functions. Thank God they don't, because otherwise they might have decided to arrest them. In the context of civil rights, the fact that they are sending a signal, in which they see obvious grounds for irregularities, does not mean that they should also submit evidence of this, on the contrary, it is police work. I therefore ask myself: has the verification been carried out and what are the results of the verification? It's a problem for me, and it's not something I want to raise in a fetish, but I've had dozens of car theft problems in the past 30 years, and so on, unfortunately. I hope my experience isn't relevant to everyone, but my personal experience is that not once has the police found out who did it, neither the cars, nor the housing thefts, the invasion of my home and my property, the police have been able to uncover anything. Now it's about something else. In this case, it is a suspicion of whether or not there is a vote being bought. You were very active at national level and in Nessebar police revealed them, most likely there were complainants who gave you evidence. I have no idea, but you will. Unfortunately, I have a deep feeling that my experience with police action has it almost every Bulgarian. If we want to carry on as we should in this country, we need to get every institution to do its job, which is why I insist on this issue, even though I know that the check has passed and I know what it says.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u241	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Kutev! In connection with ensuring the legality of the preparation and holding of elections for municipal councillors and mayors on 27 October, 3 November 2019, the relevant operational headquarters and teams for working with signals related to violations of electoral legislation and crimes against citizens' political rights were established in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and in the SDVR. These headquarters worked under the supervision and close interaction with relevant prosecutors on the territory of the country. Their activity was both in terms of prevention and in relation to the investigation of signals of already committed violations of electoral legislation. The positive effect is based on the analysis made after the elections. There has been a serious reduction in the signals of violations of less than 1600 this year against 2500 of the local vote in 2015. I would like to assure you that colleagues from all over the country have not underestimated any of the signals submitted. On the contrary, they have taken all legal action to establish their credibility and legitimacy. As for the case quoted by you, I can provide you with the following information: on 11 November, a signal was officially deposited in the reception room of the Ministry of Interior by the President of the Regional Council of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which is a violation of the second round of the elections on 3 November in Iskar region of Sofia Municipality. An identical signal, but 18 video files were attached to the Ministry of Interior and by e-mail on 9 November. In this case an immediate inspection of the relevant structures of the Directorate-General of the National Police is ordered and is reported to the Directorate-General of the National Police. The Sofia District Attorney's office has created a file with an I.V. No 51983 of 2019 on the existence of video recordings of violations from the day of the second round of elections. According to the sender of the signal, these videos are related to a violation of electoral legislation and were carried out by the candidate for mayor of the Iskar district. According to the sender of the signal on the day of the run-off, November 3rd, the same candidate has made unregulated contacts with persons from the video recordings, the goal being to obtain more votes. In the course of the verification, the origin of the videos was established, explanations were taken by the candidate for mayor, the persons of these videos were identified and explanations were again taken. The applicant and the identified persons shall categorically deny empathy for the infringements referred to in the alert. Follow-up has been carried out in the course of the verification to establish factual evidence of a committed crime of a general nature or other unlawful act. All instructions of the monitoring prosecutor have been fulfilled and the case has been sent to the District Prosecutor's Office for jurisdiction. By Decree of 19 November 2019, the monitoring prosecutor refused to initiate pre-trial proceedings under case number 51983 of 2019 on the description of the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u242	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, about what you told me, I know it from the documents I've seen. I would like to remind you that in the framework of this same campaign, the Ministry of Interior has made several rather noisy operations aimed at preventing the purchase of votes and the impact, some of which ended with arrests. Interestingly, none of them were directed against people from the government, that is, against people who represent the ruling party. I guess a lot of Bulgarian citizens have their doubts as to whether the people of the ruling party simply do not participate in such things, or we are unable to catch them, and maybe we do not want to. Of course, you are the representative of the Ministry and you are the people who need to establish the truth in an indisputable way, and when you cannot establish it, there is a presumption of innocence and that I understand it, and at the same time I raise the question because I continue to believe that the mistrust in the police of the Bulgarian society is very strong. It is strong because we have recordings, we have things that are known among the people and he talks them to himself, and when in this whole campaign you catch not specifically you, of course, but it turns out that the authorities of the law capture only those who are the opposition, and those who are the governors, do not participate in this work and naturally remain the doubts in the people. I would like to see the institutions and the state work differently and all our political disputes actually become civilised and normal, that we are all sure that the institutions, including law enforcement, will work in a way that guarantees people that there is no injustice and they feel it. The specific case you will interpret, I cannot tell you, you are the authorities that will interpret it, but the fact that within this campaign I have found a bunch of problems in the opposition and none in the government is worrying to me. In this case, the most important thing is to develop a mechanism and all of us in the executive power to finally restore people's trust in the institutions. This is most up to you at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Would you like a duplicate, the Minister of God? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u245	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Kutev! I'll be brief. As I pointed out in the exhibition, it is about 1600 signals, with signals for representatives of absolutely all the political forces involved in the elections. It is appropriate with the necessary seriousness and under the supervision and control of the prosecution in each of these signals, so I believe that we have achieved a very high level of objectivity in the work on these signals. Accordingly, for each alert and according to what evidence there is to it, the relevant intensity shall also apply procedural investigative actions. Again, there is no signal that has not been passed through the prosecution, which has not been worked on and that the appropriate actions have not been drawn up. As Minister of the Interior, I am obliged to speak with facts, and you as a politician can draw conclusions, you can say and explore the feeling. Yes, we really need to work more on the trust of the institution, but I think we are doing well because recent research by some sociological agencies has shown an increase in confidence in the Ministry of Interior. I thank my colleagues, of course, because it is at least not my merit, and it is theirs, as they work on the ground. I believe that we have created such an environment and I can assure you that we are working objectively on every single signal, regardless of what political power it is and whether it is a member of a particular political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u246	Thank you, dear Minister. We're making a bit of a move here. The next one is the MP Mihail Hristov on buried animal waste in the mines near the village of Borov dol. You have the floor to develop your question, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! At the end of June at the signal of a villager, there was a disposal of... according to confirmed information, about 100 tons of animal carcasses. After the autopsy on some of the animals, it's found to be an American mink. My question is from an ecological point of view, because there are mineral springs near the village and the other that this is a serious crime. My question to you is: what measures did the Ministry take, and what did you find out about the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Marinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u249	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! On 26 July 2019 in the Ministry of Interior Regional Management in the town of Tvarditsa under the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Sliven received an alert concerning buried waste of animal origin in an open mine in the area of The signal has been reported to the District Prosecutor's Office. Pre-trial proceedings with regard to the existence of evidence of a criminal offence under art. 352, para. 1 of the Penal Code. The pre-trial proceedings were initiated in urgency following an interview of a witness by a police officer at the Ministry of Interior District in the town of Tvarditsa. A working meeting with prosecutors and representatives of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety was held at the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Sliven. After a report of the evidence collected, a search and seizure in the area was carried out under urgency. With the help of a digger, it is dug up to 4 meters in places where physical evidence can be found. In order to prevent pollution of the environment in the area, investigative actions have also been carried out in the presence of specialists from the Regional Food Safety Directorate (Sliven). They've been handed over for storage, seized during the search of physical evidence. A total of 11 witnesses were identified and questioned. An expert at the District Court of Stara Zagora has been awarded a complex biological and environmental expertise. Laboratory tests have been carried out on the waters by representatives of the Swimming Directorate, the East-Belly Sea Region and Plovdiv, i.e. water research in the nearest water sources. On 26 August 2019, pre-trial proceedings were requested and reported to the District Prosecution Office (Prosecution Office) Sliven for the transfer of competence to the Specialized Prosecution (Prosecution), Sofia, and the results of the investigation should be disclosed after permission of the monitoring prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u250	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, look, you don't have to be a great genius here to understand this: these are the corpses of an American mink. In Bulgaria there are two official farms that deal with this one has a capacity of 1000 and the other with 100 000. So either there's some other illegal farm that deals with the production of these valuable skins, or it's because of one of the two farms. I really hope that in this case there is a punishment and it is no coincidence that we have tabled a bill that aims precisely at banning these precious hides and closing farms. I will give an example: 54 thousand signatures have gathered in about three months that support this particular bill, and this is another case from Borov Dol, which shows one neglect for both nature and animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u252	Thank you. Would you like a douche? We move on to the next question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the purchase of high-speed unmarked cars. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have tabled a question on the purchase of high-speed unmarked cars. Dear Minister, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, Chief Commissioner Ivaylo Ivanov, said at the end of June 15 high-speed vehicles will be purchased, which will control the traffic on the highways. This is also laid down in the anti-corruption plan of the Ministry of Interior as measure 17.. Buying 15 new high-speed vehicles for traffic control, equipped with speed control systems, automatic identification of registration number and video recording of intruders under the Road Traffic Act. The startling ones are the headlines we saw in some of the media: "KAT buys secret patrols at 320 thousand. lv. one with the money from the fines. This relates to a meeting on 11 November of the State Public Advisory Commission on Road Traffic Issues, where a decision on an increased budget has been adopted. In this regard, my specific question to you is: what actions have been taken to buy cars, how many funds are planned and what tasks will they perform with unmarked cars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u255	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By order of the Ministry of Interior, an expert council has been set up to prepare the necessary documentation for the award of a contract with the subject of a supply of 15 high-speed, unmarked vehicles equipped with the necessary road traffic control equipment. For the implementation and execution of the public procurement by the Fund, a financial contribution of 2 million is provided for the safety of the movement. Fifty-fifty thousand. lv. with VAT. The Expert Council prepared a draft technical specification which was sent to the Management of Property and Social Activities at the Ministry of Interior to conduct a public-market survey on the estimated value of the contract. Subject to the mandatory requirement in art. 21, para. As of 1 March 2019 and following an analysis of the proposals received it was found that the funds envisaged were insufficient and were further updated by the amount of 2 million. $250,000. lv. with VAT. In view of the ongoing consultations, no public procurement procedure has been launched at present. On the basis of an analysis of road accidents occurring and the violations identified under the Road Traffic Act, the need to take timely measures to affect the behaviour of aggressive drivers liable to violate traffic rules arises. Inquiry of international experience shows that in a number of European countries, and not only will I set an example of neighbouring Serbia, which is outside the European Union, using speed vehicles to control speed on motorways and first-class roads. An example can also be given with countries such as Italy, Austria, Britain, Germany, Spain, France, Hungary, Romania, Serbia and others. The additional analyses from these countries show that, after the start of the activities of conducting control of speed regimes on highways and first-class roads, the victims as a result of heavy road accidents have decreased by 30%. With the purchase of cars, we expect to achieve the following objectives: impact on drivers prone to rude disruption of speed regimes and traffic rules, creating prerequisites for serious car accidents with victims and significant damage; carrying out on-site control and during the movement of intruders, which will document with recording systems establishing hours, place, type and other capable of administrative criminal and criminal prosecutions; efficiency in applying audio and video evidence material; efficiency in controlling speed and recording evidence for the launch of administrative criminal proceedings. In conclusion, I inform you that taking such a type of measures is part of the complex objectives set out in the National Strategy for improving the safety of road traffic in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2011 - 2020. The Ministry of Interior has developed and established a long-term strategy for building a system of automated technical means for monitoring compliance with road traffic rules and a Single Centre for the treatment of infringements generated by these technical means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u256	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, all these arguments you have put forward have also been communicated at the meeting of the State Public Advisory Commission on road safety issues on 11 November 2019. I would like to stress that the Commission is under the hat of the Road Safety Agency with the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers. That is, the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister personally are aware of and support this amount, which is actually going to be 320 thousand. lv. for a car, after the meeting in question was allocated, as you said, another 2 million. $250,000. lv. as insufficient, complementary. Over two and a half million that were collected in the fund. Firstly, you will actually have to record in the 2020 anti-corruption plan again the same measure 17, as the implementation deadline is 31 December 2019 and you have not fulfilled this measure. Secondly, after expecting the specific tasks performed by the teams that will use these high-speed, unmarked cars, which are required to develop speeds above 250 km/h, it is correct to inform Bulgarian citizens that on the highways of the Republic of Bulgaria, within those that exist at every 40 km and less, there will be such a high-speed, equipped, unrecognizable vehicle of the Ministry of Interior, which can when registering a violation, including moving at a speed of more than 250 km/h, to warn the drivers of motor vehicles about the existence of this hypothesis and every 40 km, which, in terms of road traffic safety, is very risky. Provided that you give examples of other countries, I will give you an example of such practice in Croatia, which has proved ineffective and has already been repealed as a measure. In my opinion, for these funds, the Ministry of Interior should also consider, since the procedure itself has not been finalised, whether it is not more effective to increase the video surveillance posts, patrol cops, or DMV cars at each exit of the highway, which are a little more than 20 km away and can achieve the same effect that you expect with 15 cars purchased for the sum of 320 thousand. lv. Every single one of them. Excuse me, do you not think that these unrecognizable cars will quickly become clearly recognizable to the Bulgarian drivers and how do you think this unrecognizability will be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u259	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to point out, as you have said, the price that has been announced and which you have also announced is due to compliance with the procedure under the Public Procurement Act, namely a market study. This is the result of this market study and this is quite objective and the Ministry of Interior has no interference in this market and open procurement mechanism. Whether it's big or small, we'll decide from now on whether it's worth doing or not. I think it's worth it, but based on what price? With regard to the example that you have given that this method has been denied in Croatia, I have listed countries that I believe have achieved success, and it has been a lasting success in countering road accidents, and I think that we should use this positive international experience, which is precisely why we have done this research. Regarding the strategy that we follow, it is complex, as I said. It includes the use of stationary cameras for speed photographing, speed measurement, mobile cameras, so familiar among the public, which I am convinced you also understand are giving effect, speed sections that are currently being built for average speed, but all this depends on the infrastructure and responsibility it gives. However, there is one gap in all this control, namely documenting and proving aggressive road behaviour, which is connected and for which it is necessary to perform the relevant video footage of the driver's aggressive behaviour. It is not always associated with speeding and eventually the stationary camera gives information. Of course, there's the law, but it doesn't go on. The problem with the previously listed funds is that we do not actually stop the infringement at the time it is committed. It is for this reason that these cars need to be able to develop speed. They will only develop it when necessary, documenting the actions of an intruder. Naturally, they, in order to stop these actions, because if we only detect the speed and it continues to drive to Burgas at the same speed, we risk it causing a traffic accident. This will be the new moment in this procedure and speed will develop when necessary to stop the dangerous movement of a traffic participant. With regard to non-recognizability, the Ministry of Interior has operational tools in the Law to change the registration of the car, even more than you understand as a driver, if you drive 200 km, you will find it difficult to perceive the details of the car that follows you from behind. We are looking here rather for the effect of prevention because, knowing that there is such an opportunity, this also shows the application of this model in other countries, people simply will not break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Marinov. There is a question again from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning unpaid overtime of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u261	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You will allow me, before I ask the question, to make a comment. Dear Minister, unrecognizable vehicles are not required for identification by a driver who is being chased, persecuted and he is not obliged to stop. Therefore, I am telling you: very carefully analyse whether these cars will not be a prerequisite for road accidents. Specifically to the issue of unpaid overtime of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. A sick question, again on the agenda, and it is: what is the amount of outstanding overtime of the employees of the Ministry of Interior and are the means to pay off the overtime? How many employees have not been paid and how many cases have been filed for unpaid overtime? Please be specific. My question is dictated by information from 19 November 2019. In the district courts in Blagoevgrad, Petrich and Gotse Delchev have submitted a total of nearly 150 requests from police officers who insist on paying them the overtime. For each of the employees of the Ministry of Interior the amount is different, but in the order of 1500 BGN 1700. For the period from 2016 until now, the court has appointed in all cases a forensic accounting report which has found that the police have worked more than they have been paid, that is, there is a shortage of funds paid to the police and they have sought their rights in court. A little later there is a decision of a 5-member composition of the SAC, which cancels texts from the Regulation on working time, duty and rest of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Part of the repealed texts refers to the total number of overtime hours in emergency and emergency situations, the allocation of shifts in schedules, the total calculation of working hours for employees working on an abnormal working day. And I complement my question: how will this affect the regulations and how will it be ensured to be clear to each employee when he works overtime what does he receive and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u263	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! With regard to your question about unpaid overtime for employees at the Ministry of Interior, I provide you with the following information. As of 30 November 2019, as the question was asked a long time ago, there are no overtime obligations charged in the consolidated report of the Ministry of Interior, respectively no overtime paid. In connection with the second question, I inform you that information has been requested from the structures of the Ministry of Interior concerning the employees working in shifts and cases for unpaid overtime with legal basis art. 187, para. 5, t. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act, overtime remuneration for up to 70 hours worked in a three-month period. At present, 57 requests have been brought against the structures of the Ministry of Interior with the above-mentioned legal basis on which the court has not delivered a final judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u264	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like the word for a line, Mr. Iankov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u265	I use the opportunity for a reply to give you the opportunity, Mr Minister, to answer and my supplementary question regarding the regulation, which is from 2016. It has been welded by you, but you are now Minister of Interior for very little time and the fact that there is an imperfection in the regulation regarding overtime should bother you, because it is you who have grown up in this strictly hierarchical system and career development, as Minister of Interior you should be interested in the motivation, the desire to work for the employees of the Ministry of Interior, the opportunity to ensure security and predictability in terms of management, placing tasks and remuneration. I note that by a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, some of the regulations have been repealed, which, in my opinion, is regulatory chaos. I give you the opportunity to explain and prove to the thousands of employees in the Ministry of Interior that such chaos is not available or that measures will be analysed and taken in a short time to know exactly what the provisions and exact texts in the regulations that concern the remuneration of each one of them are.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u267	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Naturally, Mr. Iankov, that I am troubled by the problems of overtime, as I remember years when this was not even in law and was not accounted for at all for work. At present, I declare that the Ministry of Interior has paid overtime in due time and that we have no obligation to employees who have applied and reported overtime. What constitutes a dispute among employees is with regard to those workers working in shifts, and their overtime is up to 70 hours a quarter, which is the subject of litigation and the result of a final judgment, naturally, we will comply with the court's decision. With regard to the dropped Regulation on the allocation of working hours, as you said, it is from 2016, it was in the process of a judicial dispute which ended with a decision of the SAC which is not subject to appeal. The court has given the relevant reasons. On the basis of these reasons, I have ordered and uploaded for public discussion a change of the regulation, but as a whole there is a change of the regulation in relation to the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. On the problem of overtime, I even made a National Meeting with precisely such a topic, as this is a very serious problem. The aim was, firstly, to clarify the implementation and reporting of overtime, because a large part of these cases are related precisely to ignorance by certain people on the regulatory basis, which is their failure accordingly. We will comply with every decision of the court so as to protect the labour rights of our employees. I'm particularly fond of this thing. In close cooperation and discussion of these changes I am with the trade unions and I want their opinion to be heard. I hope we reach a solution that will satisfy both sides. In no case will I allow overtime or overtime to be paid. Also, my policy is, perhaps, that's where the confusion happens: I do not forbid overtime, but I have created an organisation to really do it when it is absolutely necessary and to have the result of this overtime, which has led to a reduction in overtime perhaps by 2/3 of what it was for the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u268	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question by MP Krum Zarkov on countering drug trafficking in schools and online drug trade. You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u269	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, about an hour ago your colleague, Minister of Health, and I spoke about the upcoming adoption by the Council of Ministers of the National Anti-Drug Strategy. Many departments, many agencies will be involved in this strategy under the leadership of the Ministry of Health, but of course the role played by the Ministry of Interior is also important. There are many challenges faced by Bulgarian policemen, given the dynamics, the emergence of all new and new psychotropic and psychoactive substances, new chemicals for their production, new ways of trafficking and their spread, the geographic situation of our country, which makes it transited practically for all kinds of drugs. Reading the draft strategy that I hope will soon enter the Council of Ministers, interest has sparked two challenges your office is facing, and I would like to know what you are doing to overcome them, namely: limiting the distribution of drugs in a school environment, in schools or around schools, and using the Internet or mailing to distribute and trade these narcotics and new psychoactive substances?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u270	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u271	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The Ministry of Interior shall take into account the seriousness of the problem of distribution and use of drugs by young people and the negative impact expressed on their future. To counter drug crimes, the Criminal Code, Criminal Procedure Code, the Ministry of Interior Act, the Drug Control Act and precursors apply. Within the framework of the legally designated powers, the Ministry of Interior shall carry out preventive, control, operational and analytical activities aimed at preventing, crossing, detecting and investigating drug-related crimes and precursors. The new National Anti-Drug Strategy for the period 2020 - 2024 - is a horizontal initiative of 14 ministries and agencies with a leading role of the Ministry of Health. A number of activities are planned at national level with regard to limiting the distribution of drugs in schools and the marketing of new psychoactive substances on the Internet. The main objectives are to limit the demand and supply of drugs and improve coordination between institutions at national and international level. In order to counter the distribution of narcotics in the schools, the Ministry of Interior provides an enhanced police presence. The aim is not to allow anti-social acts and criminal offences against and from minors. The Ministry of Interior carries out prevention in relation to children at school age by building models for safe conduct. The staff of the Ministry of Interior lectures on the National Program The work of the police in the schools. Once a month they hold lessons at the Officer's Hour on 26 topics. Knowledge also includes the topic of drugs. The legal and health consequences associated with the distribution and use of psychoactive substances shall be clarified. The lessons cover two age groups of students from 12 to 15 and from 15 to 18 years. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall hold meetings with the directors of educational institutions to coordinate joint actions to ensure security in the areas of educational institutions. Pre-emptive activities are carried out in schools among risk groups, as well as individual work with problem students. Specialized police operations shall be carried out for the identification of minors, drug dealers and users. Drinking and entertainment establishments for the presence of children without an escort shall be checked. The SVR and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior report on a monthly basis the results achieved and an analysis of the security environment in the different regions of the country. In the period January-October 2019 4109 specialized operations were carried out, 8038 school districts, drinking and entertainment establishments were checked and 6978 persons were detained. The registered drug-related crimes decreased by 3% and the clearance rate was 70% by 6.5 points higher than the same period last year. The Ministry of Internal Affairs shall monitor the Internet in order to limit virtual drug sales. Online trade takes place both in the visible network in which substances in the form of legal stimulants are distributed? herb, tea, bath salts, mixtures of exotic flavors, etc. and in the darknet, where the invisible part of the Internet is. The prevalence of narcotic substances, their precursors and new psychoactive substances included in the National Drug Council on a ban list containing plants and substances with high risk to public health is monitored. The staff of the Ministry of Interior shall be involved in updating this list. Our experience shows that the efforts of all institutions, NGOs, the family and the general public are needed to counter the spread of drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u272	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mr. Minister, for your comprehensive response. I appreciate the efforts the Ministry of the Interior has made. We understand well that you can not just lightly erase this problem.. it is quite complex. I encourage you to continue with these classic events that you have outlined, namely the increased police presence around the schools, the lectures you give, the relationship with the principals of the schools, the specialized operations, the inspections of drinking establishments for people without escort. All this has to go on. The idea of my question is also to draw attention to the importance of this strategy, which is a little clumsy moving towards the Council of Ministers, perhaps now it is time to look at it so that it can be implemented and can be supported by finance and new challenges that all the authorities of the world face, the ongoing emergence of new and new drugs, the so-called designer drugs, which for a long time remains legally sold until it is banned and the fact that the Strategy records that our country does not yet have a fully equipped laboratory to identify the new such substances. The Minister of Health has assured us that there will be one soon. Exercise this pressure as well, as it is your job and the Institute of Criminology, will be served with these things, as well as virtual space, and the things that happen to them. That is why my call is: along with all the events you make, to keep this topic on the agenda, to keep this topic in the public mind and in the minds of the people who are responsible, including school directors that contain restaurants, because you know that tension exists, it exists, especially in the centers of big cities, where people worry that around their children there are dealers or that their children can on the web, be bright or dark, come across substances that will ruin their lives and ultimately our public tissue. Once again, thank you, and I encourage you to continue your efforts on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u274	Thank you. The next question to Minister Marinov is from the MP Boryana Georgieva on electronic counters for automated border control. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, modern electronic counters for automatic border control were installed at Sofia Airport in 2012. They allow for accelerated passage through passport control and facilitate EU-travellers and the European Economic Area with electronically readable identity documents. In addition, the electronic counters provide the highest control and security of verification by scanning the document. They ensure a secure check of arrivals in Bulgaria by facial recognition and comparison of fingerprints. The technique was purchased with European money and cost about half a million leva. As early as May 2018, however, Senior Commissioner Biser Kostadinov, Deputy Director of Border Police, gave information to the media that since 2015, the system has been unsupported, as passengers pass through only one desk, as others do not work. The reason is that at the moment there is no company to support this system. The contract with the Austrian company that built the system was concluded without it being clear who will repair the equipment after the guarantee period and the company no longer has representation in our country. Public procurement for the maintenance of the electronic counters shall not be carried out due to a lack of candidates. At this point, none of the counters function as intended, but stand as monuments. This leads to the formation of queues of waiting passengers, and significantly increases the time for passport control, which creates inconvenience for travelers and at the same time threatens the border security of our country. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what is the question of the operation of these devices to date, and what is the reason why they are not used? Still no demand for public procurement, for their maintenance, and why? Why is there a contract to build this system without providing for who will take care of its maintenance, as people have the impression that the only reason was only the absorption of European funds on this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u276	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u277	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and representatives of the Lord! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, the construction of the electronic counters for automated border checks at the border crossings Sofia airport is funded under the Annual Programme 2010 by the External Borders Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The system was installed and put into operation on 30 June 2012, with the guarantee support under the contract being 36 months from the date of acceptance of the implementation. Given the specifics of the established system of Sofia airport and the fact that it is the first in the Republic of Bulgaria, before the expiry of the guarantee period, the Border Police Directorate General has initiated a procedure for the financial provision of the post-warranty support of the system. The Directorate-General for Border Police and the beneficiary shall prepare and update the necessary documents and conduct procurement procedures in 2017 and 2018 and shall be terminated due to the failure to submit tenders by potential contractors. An additional request is made to the Central of the company, which developed the integrated software used to manage the automated electronic counters at the checkpoint Sofia airport. It is clear from the answer received that the company is no longer active in Bulgaria and is unable to assume maintenance obligations due to lack of company resources. At present, the electronic counters are not used due to objective inability to enter into a post-warranty maintenance contract, as well as for technical reasons. The Directorate-General for Border Police is in the process of documentary preparation for the announcement of a new procurement for maintenance and modernisation of the electronic counters, including those at Sofia airport. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. In view of the forthcoming introduction of a new common European border control system, an additional automated border control system is envisaged for Sofia airport with the award under the Public Procurement Act, and the implementation and implementation of the project is expected to be completed by the end of 2020. This is a common European system with common European requirements, which will cover all external borders of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u278	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Georgieva, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I was kind of looking forward to that answer, and I'm not surprised at what I've heard. I hope you're aware that taking out what comes out as a situation in front of people is a little absurd. A huge amount of money has been spent on something that hasn't been operational for a long time. lv. is a lot of money from the Bulgarian taxpayers' money. For example, I will tell you that this money is equal to three children's ambulances, not one, but three. I don't need to explain how important the ambulance is to health care. We donated one of those to the Military Medical Academy 3 years ago. Also, a year or two ago, the first children's ambulance was a donation. People raise money to donate ambulances, and at the same time someone spends taxpayers' money on something that doesn't function. You say: 36 months warranty, but after these 36 months warranty, there is no provision at all for what will happen to these electron counters and whether there will be anyone responsible for their maintenance. We of the Volks have always said that a good statesman takes care of every lev out of the taxpayers' pocket. At a time when we are constantly told that there is no money for the pensioners, no money for the children, no money for the young families, to close our eyes for such unthinkable expenses is unacceptable. I call on you, Mr. Minister, to take measures or these machines to work, not to stand as part of the interior of Sofia airport, or the guilty of this waste to be brought to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u280	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. We continue with the last question to Minister Marinov from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev about building crisis and refugee centers in Elhovo and Lubimets. Here you are, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, on 12 March 2019 a public contract was announced for the construction of container disposal sites, I quote: in Elhovo, Malko Tarnovo, Lubimets worth 8 million. 313 thousand. £900. without VAT financed by European funds from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. After a strong public reaction, the order was downloaded under the assumption that there were technical gaps. It took nine months to remove these obviously very serious misses, which took time for European and local elections. As a result, on 6 December 2019 the Ministry of Interior announced a revised public contract for the construction of a multifunctional infrastructure area in Elhovo and Lyubimets alone, without Malko Turnovo, worth 8 million. Three hundred and 125 leva. with the same identification of the project financed by the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund. In this regard, we would like to ask you: what requires the construction of this infrastructure, which obviously, regardless of the new name, will be a site of containers for refugee accommodation or emigrants respectively? Are the two centres, respectively, planned to be an element of the European-level intentions to build refugee or emigrant centres along the borders of the European Union from which they will be subsequently reassigned? What are the reasons for the removal of Malko Tarnovo from the project and why is its value still higher? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u282	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u283	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vigenin, Mr. Penev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to your question, I would like to assure you that the policy of the Ministry of Interior within the framework of the common policy of the Republic of Bulgaria on migration and asylum follows the principles of openness and full transparency in relation to the Bulgarian society. The Ministry of Interior shall carry out this policy on the interaction and awareness of the relevant municipal and local authorities. The Ministry also takes into account the need for publicity and, through the media, promptly informs the local population of all measures taken. As for your concerns about the construction of migrant centres along the European Union border for the redistribution of refugees, it will remind you that the position of the Bulgarian government is clear and unchanged so far, namely finding a common European solution to the problem, which does not create additional burdens for the member states on the first line, such as Bulgaria. In this sense, there is no way for the Ministry of Interior to pursue a policy that is contrary to the common policy of the government and the state. Within its powers, the Ministry of Interior is working categorically and consistently to counter illegal migration and migration routes across the country. As you well know, significant funds from the state budget and European funds to build and maintain a partition facility of infrastructure and technical equipment in the country's border regions are being invested and continued to be invested. Within these investments and following the removal of technical gaps on 9 December 2019, the Ministry announced a public contract with subject matter "Preparation of investment projects and the exercise of copyright supervision and implementation of construction works (engineering) for the construction of infrastructure areas with multifunctional purpose for the needs of the Ministry of Interior "for the cities of Elhovo and Lubimets." The funds over 8 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. are provided under the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Emergency Assistance Facility. The total amount of aid agreed in 2016 was 160 million. EUR, of which nearly 90% have been used. They are intended both for investments in technical means and systems for monitoring and guarding the border with Turkey and for current expenditure on sites in the Ministry's territory used for the needs of Border Police and the Migration Directorate. Therefore, the contract provides for the construction of the so-called multifunctional infrastructure and its use by the two units of the Ministry of Interior in a possible crisis situation. The same sites are intended to be used in disasters and other crises that are not closely linked to migratory pressures. These sites are and will continue to be closely guarded by the Ministry of Interior, namely they are also an object of a closed type. A new functional analysis was carried out when removing the deficiencies in the original version of the contract. According to him, the construction of three sites would create difficulties in coordinating their management tasks. As a result, in coordination with the European Commission, the project for a facility in the town of Malko Tarnovo dropped out of the initial plans. The amount of the funds is within the initial volume as additional activities are provided for the two sites remaining in the procedure. The estimated value and the contract are carried out under the new rules. The stage of the study is included by the Department of Public Procurement at the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u284	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u285	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! Thanks for the answer. We will, of course, continue to monitor the work on these sites how the realization of the order itself takes place, the companies that will win eventually. However, some further questions: what are the needs of the Ministry of Interior as defined by the need for this infrastructure, and how do these sites fit into the overall policy of the Republic of Bulgaria on immigration, especially when we talk that this is also one of the prides of the government, and of you personally............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, you say that you maintain good communication on these issues with the population. I would disagree here, but perhaps the mayors are informed of what is to come, but what have you done to inform the citizens and reassure them that these sites are not related to the suspicions that we have, by chance, clearly clarified in our question and to which you have answered? Finally, I would say that it is clear to us that there is money to absorb, but be careful when giving money what can then be asked. We also have the relevant decisions of the National Assembly on these issues, but these are sensitive issues. Bulgaria has a clear position, but time is changing. Our concern is that step by step goes to things that may ultimately be contrary to our interests and our positions. Again, we will follow these questions. I really ask you to communicate more seriously on such sensitive topics. Find a way for the Ministry of Interior to explain these questions to citizens so that there are no further suspicions of the real purposes of such actions. Finally, I would say that, however, when such capacity is maintained, there is probably no small cost of maintaining this infrastructure. It would be interesting for us to know if there was such an estimate, what would that be worth? If not, of course, then we will follow these topics, and we will ask new questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u286	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u287	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgaria supports the creation of a mechanism to improve the management of migration in fair burden sharing without assigning additional tasks to the countries on the first line. In this position, we are united with Greece, Cyprus and all the countries that are in our situation. This mechanism must be applicable to all routes, to all Member States of the European Union, and to protect the interests of all Member States. The European Commission has announced a new pact on migration and asylum, which must be presented in the first months of next year. We expect the European Commission to take into account all specifics in practices arising from the type of external border. Bulgaria insists on compliance with a package approach so as not to allow a disruption of the balance between justice, solidarity and responsibility. Achievement of the balance sheet we see in several aspects: aid to the first-line countries whose reception capacity is exhausted precisely by transferring persons to Member States inside the country. Where the country on the first line has exhausted the capacity to accommodate such persons, there shall be a mechanism to allow for a transfer to the interior of Europe as an extreme form of solidarity in crisis situations operating a Common European Return Mechanism, including incentives and leverages for impact and adequate support in crisis situations of the countries concerned. Bulgaria is truly defending itself from this position, including at the last sittings. We hope that the European Commission will comply with this position. Again, we are not alone in this position with us are Greece and Cyprus as countries that are on the front line and are currently much more affected even by Bulgaria in terms of the crisis. Regarding the two sites where these sites will be built, I would like to assure you that the local authorities have been informed of the mayor, the district governor. The relevant information on national media was released and distributed. These are currently functioning objects of the Ministry of Interior. One is a home for the accommodation of persons of migration, which is currently occupied near 50%, but this is a changing figure, as these persons will be sent to the countries of origin. Currently he is engaged in this activity and this is the territory of the Ministry of Interior, strictly guarded by a closed type. As for the subject in Elhovo, he is also the subject of the Border Police. It has built such buildings, so this multifunctional site will contribute to expanding its capacity. Again, no one is talking about the accommodation of migrants who come from Europe to Bulgaria, or the accommodation of migrants along the border. It is about preparing and responding to various crises of a different nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u288	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to Minister Marinov is again by the MP Christian Vigenin about the presence of information about the whereabouts of the persons Plamen Galev and Angel Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u289	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The faces of Plamen Galev and Angel Hristov, known as the Galev brothers, have been reported to be wanted by Interpol with a red ballot since May 2012. As their names have often been mentioned during the election campaign, I would like to ask you: have they received up to now in the Ministry of Interior information on the possible whereabouts of the two wanted persons, including in the partnership services? Have they been detected in this period, including in recent months, their contacts directly or through intermediaries, with Bulgarian citizens on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u290	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u291	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The answer will be short not because it is the last, but because most of the information is a professional secret. With regard to this question, I can provide you with the following information: in May 2012, the persons Plamen Galev and Angel Hristov were declared a general search on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and an international search in the Schengen Information System, as well as with a red Interpol bulletin. The two persons are wanted in connection with sentences of the District Court of Kyustendil, the Sofia Court of Appeal and a subsequent decision of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which imposed a sentence of five years in prison. In the course of operational and search activities taken both within the territory of the country and in cooperation with Interpol and partner services, operational data concerning the two wanted persons have been entered and continue to be entered. This data shall be verified in due time by the relevant structures of the Ministry of Interior where the territory of the country is concerned and with the assistance of Interpol and the relevant partner services where they are related to the territory of another country. The specific operational data concerning wanted persons are classified information and are thus protected by the Classified Information Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u292	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u293	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I understand that some of the things can't be said, but you could at least give us a little bit more information. What was the occasion to actually ask that question? On November 1, 2019, in the morning block of one of the national televisions, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov said the following, I quote, I downloaded it from the video: "Brothers Galevi have helped Manolova through the Roma leaders. That doesn't mean they don't have any influence on the Roma bosses from somewhere. I wouldn't be surprised if the second round did such a thing. In this regard, my supplementary questions: Firstly, the Prime Minister is reporting a crime of buying votes that has been committed and is suggesting that it will happen again. Have you taken measures to verify these allegations of the crime already committed, and what have you undertaken to prevent new ones for the second round? Secondly, the Prime Minister reports in practice that the so-called Galev brothers maintain contact with the Roma bosses, respectively in Bulgaria, and are able to influence the electoral process. What did you take to identify these Roma bosses and search through them for information about the two convicted fugitives? Last, if you have not done anything, does this mean that there is no communication between the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Interior and the Prime Minister respectively has information that he has not provided to you and you did not ask for it or the Prime Minister is speaking purely politically without realizing that he is actually providing false information that aims to mislead voters between the first and second rounds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u294	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u295	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I said, operational information, and obvious information that has acted in relation to persons, has been verified. I said this is classified information and cannot be disclosed at this stage. With regard to all other signals coming from the media space by specific senders, they have been checked accordingly. Those who represented a crime were reported in the relevant competent prosecutors, but this was within the answer to the first question by Mr. Kutev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u296	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Marinov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the issues of Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The first question is from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova, about Nature Park. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u297	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarian Nature Park was declared such in 2002 by order of the Minister of Environment and Water. Located in the heart of the Balkan Mountains, the idea of its creation is to protect the arrays of old beech forests, as well as the springs of the Yantra River and its tributaries at the top of it. There are 70% of all types of medicinal plants in Bulgaria. In the park is also the Historical Complex of Shipka Buzludja. Almost the whole territory of Nature Park is included in the Natura 2000 site. Since its creation, it has been 17 years now, the Park has implemented a number of projects. He was the beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Environment" of the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" of the Flemish Cooperation Programme. Unfortunately, however, in the last two years the activity of Nature Park has almost ceased. The state of the park is reduced, and the beautiful buildings, where they are housed, are now empty. You can see with the naked eye when you pass by the park that there is no activity there. The initiatives, which were dozens of years ago, are now units. It's not clear who's running the park. In this regard, my question to you is: what happened to Nature Park? What is the vision of his future? What are the means provided for its operation for the next 2020?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u298	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u299	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Sidorova, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgarian Nature Park was announced by order of 9 August 2002 of the Minister of Environment and Water for the protection, restoration and maintenance of beech ecosystems and landscapes typical of Central Balkan Mountain, flora, fauna and cultural and historical wealth of the region and covers a total area of 21 772,2 hectares. The project of the Management Plan of the Nature Park is developed under a project funded by the Environment 2007 " 2013" held at a second meeting of the Ministry of Environment and Water's High Expert Council on 17 December 2015. The Council's decision is to submit the plan to the Council of Ministers for adoption after the comments voted by the Council. The draft management plan with the notes reflected has been submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Water in January 2017, and the intergovernmental coordination procedure has not been launched so far. Despite the lack of a well-established management plan, the Directorate of Nature Park is carrying out all the activities for which it was created. Last year all traditional events were organized and held and marked the important dates from the environmental calendar. With regard to biodiversity conservation activities in October this year, traditional monitoring of the brown bear was carried out at the base at the village of Potok, the restoration and cultivation activities of rare and endangered species of flora and fauna continue. In the aid of predatory birds, feedings are also carried out at the established for this purpose site for raptors in the village of Murzetsi, Tryavna municipality. In order to ensure the safety of tourists are surrounded and marked all eco-trails of the park, with sightings, infrastructure status and coordinates detected with GPS. There is a new joint initiative with the zoo in Gabrovo. The Park Directorate will be a partner in the Strategy for future development of the zoo, with a specific environmental conservation education center to organize and conduct conservation campaigns, periodic, permanent exhibitions, lectures, educational activities and activities. Yes, you are right that the staff is extremely reduced. Currently, the Directorate of the Park is managed by a temporary performer of the position of Director because of the need for a long recovery of the holder after having a severe illness. Despite the small team of the Park Directorate and the limited budget available to the Park Directorate, the activities laid down in the Rules of Procedure are carried out conscientiously.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u300	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like a line, Mrs. Sidorova? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u301	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the answer. I hope that in 2020 the activities of Park will be activated because it really was one of the natural parks that was the emblem of the protected territories. During the years Park "Bulgaria" has shown how to work. Unfortunately, in the last two years this has not happened. I hope that the director who has suffered a severe illness will recover and that the Ministry of Environment and Water will make the necessary Nature Park - Bulgaria - to start working again with its full capacity. Regarding the general events with the Zoo, Gabrovo, I find this a little strange because the zoo has been revoked and for more than half a year it is not functioning. I hope good intentions don't just stay on paper but happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u302	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev on the protection of bee families. You have the floor, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is about protecting bee families. In this year, numerous alerts and complaints have been received regarding poisoning of bee families and non-compliance with the provisions of the Regulation on the protection of bees and bee families from poisoning. In this regard, it is important to share what actions did the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take as a principal for the conservation and conservation of the bee population? What measures have the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry taken to protect bee families in the present, and what measures will it take in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u304	Thank you, dear Matsurev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u305	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Matsurev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to ensure measures for the protection of bees and bees from poisoning and the order for sampling of bees, plants and plant products by order of the Director of BABH, a standard operational procedure for establishing the reasons for the sea of bees and the establishment of acts for the establishment of administrative infringements under the Plant Protection Act and the Beekeeping Act has been established. A working group has been set up and discussions on amending and supplementing Regulation 13 of 2016 are ongoing, providing for a ban on the use of plant protection products with the symbol SPe8, which means "dangerous for bees', during the light part of the day. It is also envisaged that farmers using plant protection products will have undergone appropriate training and used consultants prior to their use. It is important to point out that the last derogation from the Republic of Bulgaria on the prohibition on the use of neonicotinoids leading to increased mortality of bee families is from 2017. In 2018 and 2019 these products have not been used. In order to ensure awareness and transparency on the BABBH website, there is a published register of authorisations issued for the application of plant protection products by air spray, as well as a list of authorised plant protection products for placing on the market and use on their active substances. In addition, there is a published list of authorised insecticides where all hazardous products that require additional care for bees are identified in a separate column with the symbol SPe8. Steps have been taken to facilitate the registration of biopesticides and all bee-friendly plant protection products, as the standard procedure for registration of a new product is long and expensive. With effect from 15 March 2020, the Regional Food Safety Directorates shall have on duty inspectors, including on weekends, available on alerts for unauthorised plant protection products. Measures have been taken to implement an electronic platform to disclose upcoming treatment of agricultural areas with plant protection products, which is one of the main requests of beekeepers. In this way, official controls in respect of compliance with the requirements of Regulation 13 of 2016 will also be supported. With regard to illegal imports into the country of plant protection products, the Ministry shall work together with the other member states, including Europol, and joint checks shall be carried out between 15 January and the end of May with staff of NSBOP, Border Police, Ministry of Interior. Legislative initiatives have been adopted to be laid down in the Criminal Code so as to criminalise illegal imports and sale of plant protection products. A state laboratory is equipped to examine samples of dead bees for residues of pesticides. There are currently procedures for accreditation of the laboratory in the Bulgarian accreditation service. 2020 has been declared the Year of Plant Protection. It is planned to provide additional information on the possibilities for use of bee-sparing products within the foreseen events. In order to ensure diverse grazing for bee families in the Indicative Schedule of the Rural Development Programme for 2020 under forest measures, afforestation of 23 000 acres is envisaged only with mead species. Last but not least, taking into account the state of the bee families in Bulgaria in 2019, beekeepers were granted three times support in the form of State aid of the deminimis type, providing a total of 8 million funds. Six hundred thousand. BGN, and practically each of them received nearly 20% higher support on this line than the previous year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u306	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Would you like the word for a line? Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u307	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for the comprehensive answer you have given. Indeed, this is much you do as a minister, as well as your team, for the protection of bee families. Thank you for your answer, and I hope that everything you do has more serious control in order to continue the development of bees and bees have a larger population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u308	Thank you, dear Matsurev. We move on to the next issue, the last one for today by Irena Dimova, about the three-year beekeeping program - new aspects and opportunities. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u309	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! My question is about the three-year beekeeping program and new aspects and opportunities. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! We all know that Bulgaria uses a European instrument to help beekeepers and provides support in this regard. However, it is important that such support is also available to non-governmental organisations that are very numerous in the sector and will thus enable more beekeepers to be included in organisations, which would be a first step towards bringing the sector together. In this regard, Madam Minister, I would very much like you to introduce us to the new aspects and possibilities of the three-year beekeeping programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u311	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Dimova, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The national beekeeping programme for the new period 2020 " 2022" was developed with the broad and active participation of industry organizations in the beekeeping sector. It has been approved by Commission Decision 2019-974 since mid-this year on the approval of national programmes. Its implementation has been subject to a general budget of 19 million for the three years since its implementation. 199 thousand. 412 BGN, 50% European and 50% national funds, which exceeds the budget by 35% for the previous three-year period. This is a new programme of its nature, which places the emphasis on beekeeping associations and organisations of honey and bee products producers in order to overcome the fragmentation and existing division in the sector at the moment. These NGOs will be users of the aid in most of the measures and activities, which is new to the previous period and is important for beekeepers in Bulgaria. Aid to beekeeping organisations is provided under measure A "Technical assistance to beekeepers and beekeeper associations', where for the first time the costs of exchanging knowledge and good technological practices in raising beekeeping families are financed, as well as the conduct of markets on which beekeeping products will be offered by local beekeepers. I pay particular attention to this measure because this is an activity for which industry beekeeping organizations have always insisted on receiving assistance, now they will be able to benefit from measure A. Special attention shall be paid to two new activities under measure B "Fighting against varroosis', related to the study of the presence of resistance of the agent of varroatosis to the veterinary medicinal products financed by the programme, as well as to the presence of the disease of nozematosis and the spread of the territory of the country where the beneficiaries of the activities are beekeeping associations. With regard to measure C, the nationalisation of mobile beekeeping will be financed for the first time for the movement of honeybee families during the metrosurate. The aim is to make more effective use of flowering vegetation, which will provide diverse bee grazing, as well as preserving biodiversity. A new activity is included in measure D s to assist the laboratories for analysis of the products in question in order to help beekeepers sell their products and increase their value. By providing funds to study the food stocks of honey, pollen of bee families, residues of pesticides above limit values will establish the quality of food stocks as part of the factors for the good wintering of families. Here again beekeeping associations are beneficiaries. An important place is also taken by measure E, which will finance applied research programmes in the field of beekeeping. This part of the measure is the monitoring of pesticide residues in bees from intensive farming areas. It will help in solving problems associated with possible chronic poisoning of bee families, which is a common prerequisite for weakening their immunity and with subsequent deterioration of health. In order to further facilitate the approved beekeepers who do not have their own funds to fulfil their investment intentions, the State Fund shall apply a fund lending scheme to the Fund. The eased terms of the loan scheme allow beneficiaries under the National beekeeping programme to receive a financial resource in advance for the implementation of their approved projects for part of the measures. Four of the measures included new activities, including the topic related to monitoring of residues of eligible pesticides in bees, candidates are associations of beekeepers registered under the Law on non-profit legal entities for public benefit. Part of them may also apply groups or organisations of producers of honey and bee products recognised in accordance with Regulation No 12 of 2015. In order to maintain good communication in the sector on 16 December this year, another meeting of the Beekeeping Council was held. It discussed topics related to the place of beekeeping in the Strategic Plan for the new common agricultural policy and opportunities for its support. I hope that the new programme will give greater opportunities to associations to support their production.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u312	Thank you, dear Minister. Would you like to praise the Minister, Mrs. Dimova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u313	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and extensive response. I sincerely hope that beekeepers will benefit from the new opportunities and aspects of this three-year programme, because beekeeping, as we all know, is an important sector not only for all of us, but especially for health. Therefore, I thank you and hope that communication and understanding towards them will be even stronger and that all beekeepers will benefit from the opportunities provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-19.u314	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. For the backdrop, I suppose you don't want to take the floor again. This was your last participation in parliamentary control this year. Thank you. [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] Most likely, if not the most, with the most time in parliamentary control. Now, before I close the meeting, I must also make the announcements on parliamentary control for tomorrow.. 20 December: 1. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the MP Anastas Popdimitrov. 2. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer seven questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Stoilov, Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev, Nadia Klisurska, Mihail Hristov, Alexander Matsurev, Desislava Todorova and Elena Pesheva. 3. Justice Minister Danail Kirilov will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 4. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Ivo Hristov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the MP Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the MPs Alexander Simov and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov at one request from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Anton Kutev, and one question with a written answer from the MP Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev and a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Krasen Krastev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of four questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov, Nadya Klisurska, Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov, two questions from both of them. For lack of respectable reasons, answers to their questions and questions, as set out for 19 and 20 December this year, shall be postponed to Members of the National Assembly as follows: - a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva; - one question and two questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov In the absence of sickness, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next meeting is tomorrow, December 20th, at 9:00. We're adjourned.
