ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I propose to your attention a draft work programme for the National Assembly for May 15, 2019: "1." Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, 14 May 2019 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act [[General draft prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the basis of the bills adopted in the first vote on 8 May 2019 with importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, 16 April 2019; Mladen Shishkov and a group of MPs, 17 April 2019]] . 3. Draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in May 2019 4. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. Importer 5. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importers: Plamen Nunev, Menda Stoyanova, Manoil Manev and Alexander Ivanov, 23 April 2019. Adopted at first vote on 25 April 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 16 May 2019 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 3 April 2019. Adopted at first vote on 24 April 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 16 May 2019 7. Draft Decision on the designation of the Committee for the Auditing of the Court of Auditors' Annual Financial Statement for 2018. Importer "The Committee on Budget and Finance', item 3 for Thursday, 16 May 2019 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the so-read Programme Project. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 8 to 14 May 2019: A bill to supplement the Anti-Corruption Act and to take away illegally acquired property. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organization of master pharmacists. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Report amending the budget for state social security for 2018. Importer "The National Insurance Institute. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Messages. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces for the period from 15 to 23 May 2019 on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will be held a joint preparation of the 68 Special Forces Brigades with the Special Operations Forces of the Hellenic Republic. Forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will participate in the preparations, as well as military personnel from the Forces for special operations of the Hellenic Republic with equipment and equipment. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, and to activities to prevent military action led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The relevant competent state authorities have been notified in accordance with the provisions of the law. The notification was received on 14 May 2019. No 903-09-23 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 14 May 2019 the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 14 May 2019 to 14 May 2019. No 920-00-12 in accordance with the provision of art. 261a, para. 5 of the Law on Electronic Communications The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data has provided the National Assembly with generalized information under art. 261a of the Law on Electronic Communications, January "December 2018" By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. And the last message for today: the National Statistical Institute received Information on indexes of turnover in the section "Retail trade without trade in cars and motorcycles" in March 2019, Industrial Production Indexes in March 2019, Construction Production Indexes in March 2019, Consumer Observation, April 2019, Employed persons and average gross wage in the first quarter of 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're going to the first point of today's program: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev to present us with the draft decision. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov and for the election of Mrs. Desislava Taneva as Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Ms. Desislava Jekova Taneva is an economist and a lawyer. Over the years, he has worked in the private sector, in the field of food industry and agriculture. Her political career began in 2007 as chairman of the municipal council in Sliven. In 2009, she was elected MP at the Forty-First National Assembly, during which she headed the Committee on Agriculture and Food. In 2013 she was elected to the 40th National Assembly and became a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. In 2014, she was appointed Minister for Agriculture and Food. Since 2017, he has been a MP at the Forty-fourth National Assembly, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food and a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On the basis of the above, and because Ms Taneva has established herself in the years as an expert in agriculture, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Mrs. Desislava Zhekova Taneva as Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see anyone who wants to. I will read you the draft decision in its entirety, which we will vote on. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the Decision of the National Assembly on the Election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018, Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 December 2018 and Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 5 April 2019. HAS DECIDED He released Rumen Andonov Porozhanov as Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. He elected Desislava Zhekova Taneva as Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Please vote. They voted 126 MPs: 121 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Congratulations, Mrs. Taneva! [[Applause.]] You're welcome to take an oath. Repeat after me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u5	Congratulations! [[Mrs. Taneva received congratulations from members of the Council of Ministers and from MPs.]] Thank you to my colleagues from the Council of Ministers. Let's wish them a good job. Good luck to you, Mrs. Taneva. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE OWNITY [[GENERAL PROJECT WORKED BY THE COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS ACCORDING TO THE REPRESENTATIVES OF FIRST VOICE ON 8 MAY 2019 AND THE LEADER-COUNTS OF IMPORTERS: ALEXANDER NENKOV AND THE GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES OF 16 APRIL 2019; A YOUNG SHISHKOV AND A GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES OF 17 APRIL 2019]] . Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention a report on the General Law of the Law adopted on 8 May 2019 on the first vote Draft amending the Law on State Property, No 954-01-24, submitted by Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, Iskren Vassilev Veselinov, Georgi Kolev Kolev, Evgenia Biserova Alexieeva, Alexander Koychev Ivanov, Mladen Nikolov Shishkov and Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov on 16 April 2019, and a draft supplement to the Law on State Property, No 954-01-25, submitted by Mladen Nikolov Shishkov and a group of MPs on 17 April 2019 drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Act for amendment and supplement of the State Property Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u7	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u8	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u10	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u12	Paragraph 3 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1, 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: Within seven days of receipt of a request by the authority issuing the alienation act and/or by the investor, the court in closed session shall allow prior execution of the alienation act where necessary in order to protect particularly important state or public interests, subject to the following conditions: 1. the property is designed for the construction of a national object or object of national importance within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area; 2. the property is not only the owner's apartment; 3. the compensation determined by the act is paid to an account of the the rightful persons and, in the cases referred to in art. 39a, para. 1 as well as in cases where no account has been provided by the entitled persons at the account of the district governor. (2) With the definition of para. 1 the court shall also establish a monetary guarantee of one third of the compensation paid. The guarantee is due by the investor. (3) The designation under para. 1 is final. (4) The investor may be put into possession and obtain a construction permit after the guarantee is lodged at the expense of the governor. The investor's input shall be carried out in the following order: 1. the undertaking of the investor in possession of the property shall be carried out at its request by the governor or by an official authorised by him; 2. a protocol shall be drawn up before the vote describing the actual status of the property by a commission which includes an authorised representative of the governor and of the investor and, where applicable, agricultural land or forest territory............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. the district governor shall issue an order determining the composition of the commission and indicating the type, location and number of the property, owner of the property and the date and time of carrying out the inventory of the property, which shall be communicated to the owner of the property in accordance with art. 61 of the Administrative Procedure Code no later than 7 days before the date on which the inventory will take place; 4. the minutes shall be signed by the members of the committee and by the owner of the property; upon refusal of the owner to sign the minutes, this circumstance shall be certified by the signatures of two witnesses, including their three names, an exact address and a single civil number and shall be deemed to have been served from the date of its drawing up; 5. where the owner of the property is duly informed of the performance of the inventory and does not appear, the action may be carried out and the report may be drawn up in his absence; a copy of the report shall be served to the owner in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code, and the factual findings reflected therein shall be accepted as true until proven otherwise; 6. the order of the district governor under item 6. 3 and the protocol on t. 2, 4 and 5 are not subject to appeal. 2. A new para is being created. 5, 6 and 7: The guarantee laid down by the court shall serve to pay the amount of compensation raised by the court on the act of expropriation, as well as the compensation under para. 7 and 12. (6) Upon entry into force the pre-execution of the investor of the site shall be granted a building permit. The building permit shall be issued to the investor of the site a contracting entity within the meaning of the Construction Act in the territory. (7) The investor of the site shall owe to the owners of the properties under para. 1 compensation for lost benefits from the date of entry into possession of the property until the decision to alienate the property concerned enters into force. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 5. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 6. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 7. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 12. 8. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. 4 and 9' are replaced by "al'. 7 and 12. In a sentence, the words "al" everywhere. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 4 t. The following 9. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 14 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 10. So far, the Al. 12 becomes para. 15 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 11. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 16 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 12 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 12. So far, the Al. 14 becomes para. 17 and in it the words are said. The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The following points are inserted after point 16 (Commission Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, as well as when examining the first reading in plenary of the requests made for changes between the first and second votes in the State Property Act, and it was then said that it was important to specify, and I think that we have refined the text when it comes to the additional guarantee of one third, which the court should rule eventually if the investor's assessment of estranged procedures proves to be lower than the market. In our original version, we had proposed a text that said that the court should rule within a week to one third of the payment, to provide up to one third as a guarantee for the owners of private property. The arguments are that in such an option in one week there is no way for the court to rule, or there is no way for it to make such an assessment, that it itself decides within a third whether it is not a fifth, a sixth, and we, on the other hand, want the process to go smoother, faster and still protect the fundamental and private interest. This is why we have changed the texts here so that this guarantee is not up to a third, but in the amount of a third. Therefore, the owners of private property themselves will be much more protected from the point of view of being equivalent monetary compensation. In the whole art. 39b I think that we have done much better editorials precisely in order to keep the balance between the state interest, because we all want the big infrastructure sites of national importance to happen faster. On the other hand, however, the Constitution has framed us that private property is inviolable and, where the State wishes it to be compensated, it must be compensated by monetary compensation or by equivalent property. We have also very clearly signed specific procedures when the state has previously taken possession of the property, if the court decrees that, of course, there will also be specific benefits for the period from the entry into pre-owned possession until the final entry into force of the estrangement act. If it is agricultural production on the territory of the estranged property, if it is a forest fund, if there is any production, some building, possibly the revenues that, for this period from the pre-entry into possession to the act of alienation, could be realised by the owner of the property, the state would restore them to it, and if there were a case, the act of estrangement would eventually fall, then the property of the owner would be restored in the way that the state had entered in advance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, I am voting on the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u16	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the In the case of an expropriation of property, the property of a natural or legal person, as well as the property of the same co-owners, with a total area of more than 50 decares.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u17	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 of the Commission Report. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u18	Proposal of the MPs Toma Bikov, Stanislav Ivanov and Nikolay Alexandrov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions, after the words................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u19	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! This proposal aims to facilitate the investment process and to make it possible for investors in Bulgaria to have a much easier entry for their investment. This is in line with the Management Programme, and at the beginning of this term one of the goals the government, the ruling majority, set is to attract serious investors, increase investment in the Bulgarian economy, which will lead, of course, to a drop in unemployment and hence to an increase in income. Because this is the way to increase the incomes the more jobs and the more employers compete for workers, the higher the incomes will be. Our proposal will certainly be perceived as a positive sign by all who intend to invest in the Bulgarian economy, and thus the Bulgarian state will show that it is a good place for investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u21	And thank you, Mr. Bikov. Do you have any lines for Mr. Bikov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bikov, dear colleagues! Mr. Bikov, perhaps you should have mentioned in your statement that for the period 2009 - 2018 the average investment in the country is 1.5 billion, while in 2014 it is 350 million. Perhaps you should have mentioned that at that time "2014" managed Mr Oresharski's cabinet with the party BSP. I agree with you that the investment process is very important, that investment in the country is very important, but when it comes to investment, the facts should be mentioned as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Bikoff, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, of course, only one law or one sign is not enough to attract investment. The years and figures you quoted show that when there is instability in the country, when there is uncertainty who is managing and who is making commitments to investors, then investors simply do not come. In 2014, apart from being characteristic of the fact that in the first half of the year Mr. Oresharski managed, we remember that there were early elections, there was also a bankrupt bank - a variety of signs that were, to put it mildly, bad for investors. Probably still some of those whites that were made then affect some of the investors who are thinking about whether to come to a country that has given such bad signals. Therefore, it is good beyond the laws we adopt to ensure investors that the political and economic environment in Bulgaria will be stable and suitable for investment and for doing business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would also like to say a few words about these amendments in § 5. They are extremely important because all of us in this House or at least most of the MPs know that the development of industrial zones is a strategic state priority that is embedded in the Programme of both the previous and the current government. Industrial zones are an extremely important prerequisite for attracting investment in production. The presence of land with a production purpose and built elements of the relevant infrastructure is in fact key to the choice of a specific destination for Bulgaria, and not only as a state, but also certain regions. There is no coincidence in the policy of the government to stimulate the development of North and Northwest Bulgaria. If there the state does not invest in such industrial zones and technological parks, to define them as such, to build a certain part of the infrastructure, there is no way for the investor to come, to like the destination and regardless of the good economic conditions in our country, regardless of the good conditions of taxation in our country, it simply cannot build its plant. The development of the industrial sector is very important. It has a leading role to play in increasing economic growth, I would say that this is a sustainable investment. And when our opponents talk about that, compared to 2008, we have a decline in foreign direct investment, I have to say that we may have a decline, but in recent years, foreign direct investment is exceptional and only in the industry in the manufacturing industry. There's data and numbers for that. In 2017, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 60% of net of net of net means plus/minus, foreign direct investments are in production. In 2018 they are already 70%! This is the real investment, not those speculative investments in 2008, 2009 that came here as deposits in banks to take the high interest rates that were then given in the Bulgarian banks and carry them out! These aren't real investments. When an investor comes and builds a plant in Bulgaria, he invests millions for some of them billions. This investment is a long-term and sustainable investment. It cannot take its purse and leave the next day when, for example, somewhere else, better conditions arise for profit than such an investment. That is why it is extremely important and the state has focused on this... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u27	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u28	...to develop these industrial zones, to expand the activities of the state enterprise Industrial Zones. In fact, this is also important to support certain amendments to the Law. Changes are required because in the course of implementation of this program the deficits in the Law are seen. What do we say with these changes? We say that industrial zones or technological parks with the necessary technical infrastructure to attract investment are also a national site, which is the case. Just by saying that this is a national site, we say that this is a priority for us, we say that this is leading in the government's policy of attracting investors. Speaking of which, however, we should not only talk about foreign investors, these conditions are created for all investors. And if there is a Bulgarian investor who has decided to create or expand its production and does not have enough own base, he can also benefit from the so built industrial zones or technological parks. Colleagues, unlike the general fairy tales and raucous promises made by the opposition, especially now, in the election period, I read today some great headlines for some paychecks -- incredible, for some pensions -- incredible, here we do real things. With a small amendment in the Law we open an even larger, wide opportunity for the state to take real steps to increase the gross domestic product, the holding of Bulgaria and ultimately to raise the salaries. It is no coincidence that the National Statistical Institute came up with the data for the first quarter.. Maybe some of you have seen them, some of you have not seen them. For only the first quarter of 2019 we have an increase in the average salary compared to the fourth quarter of 2018 by 3.2%. You understand that this as a trend means 10 and over 10% per year. The way to achieve this is sustainable development, the way to achieve this is to build industrial zones and attract investors in production and not only in production, but in high-tech production, because with the production that we have at the moment, we cannot achieve growth either in the salaries or in the level of life of the ordinary Bulgarian. The productions that come to Bulgaria and will be located in these industrial areas are in fact high-tech industries that can and will generate additional added value and will naturally create not only jobs and competition for these jobs, but are also a major factor for raising the salary in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Replies to Mrs. Stoyanova's statement? Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, because you have touched on the topic of foreign direct investment and the political talk of our opponents, who have not been in the Chamber for the past third month, I will only remove the raw statistics from the BNB website. Both 2007 and 2008, which compare and accuse us that there is a decline in foreign direct investment in Bulgaria, precisely then. "In the period when investments were in real estate, as you said, and in others, in buying financial institutions in Bulgaria and not in foreign direct investments, in fixed tangible assets that really add value in Bulgarian production, to see this growth of the gross domestic product in ten years of 55 billion. lv. In 2008, 2009 until 2018, which amounts to 110 billion. lv. In this regard: 2010 Foreign direct investment 1 billion 170 million. EUR; 2011 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes that And the hole, notice, colleagues, 2014 ? decline of foreign direct investment in times. Of the billions I've been commenting on up to now, the 347 million. Good for the Oresharski government! This Decision shall enter into force on the The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the The Commission therefore concludes that Again, we comment that these are foreign direct investments in factories, in jobs, in new technologies, namely the transformation of the Bulgarian economy not in the processing and mining industry, but indeed in products with high added value and with new technological productions. We are witnessing, and we are already taking it for granted. We open jobs and new factories every day, as you mentioned, related to investments in Bulgaria. I think we are on the right track and this legal amendment, this supplement to the Law will really unlock even more investments in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Will there be a hole, Mrs. Stoyanova? You agree with the line. [[Radio.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 5, which the Commission proposes and supports. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u32	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u33	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division which the Commission supports. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u34	Paragraph 5 "Instruction text'. The proposal of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov has been made. Proposal of the MPs Toma Bikov, Stanislav Ivanov and Nikolay Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid is created a new Article 2 is created. 216 containing the following: supposed to be in the same position as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in Article 2 (2) of the basic Regulation. The individual administrative acts of the main architects of municipalities (regions), such as the refusals to coordinate and approve investment projects and building permits, together with the approved investment projects, and the refusals to issue them, where they are not part of a complex project for investment initiative, shall be subject to an appeal for validity and legality before the heads of the regional directorates for national construction control, with the exception of special sites related to the defence and security of the country. Complaints shall be submitted by the interested parties within 14 days of their notification. (2.) The complaints and protests against the acts under para. 1 stop their execution. (3.) The Head of the RDNC or an official authorised by him shall decide on the admissibility and merits of the appeal or protest by reasoned order within 15 days of their entry together with the administrative file for the issue of the contested act. (4.) The orders under para. 3 may be appealed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 3. 215 or the orders under para. 3 in which there is a ruling on the substance of the complaint or protest may be appealed pursuant to art. 215........................................................................................... 2. A new §... shall be created: The following additions to sentence 3 shall be made in Article 1.46: After the statement, the appeal may be made. The appeal shall be added to the authority in accordance with art. 216, para. 1 in which sentence 3 acquires the following version: The refusal may be appealed before the authority pursuant to Art.216, para 1, within 14 days of the communication on its issuance. 3. A new §... shall be created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 215, para. 1 sentence first, the following additions shall be made: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 215, para. 1 sentence first after the expression "left in force" shall be added "with the exception of those referred to in art. 216, para. 1 "In which sentence 1 acquires the following version:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 216, para. 1 may be appealed to the relevant administrative court at the location of the property. 4. A new §... shall be created: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 215, para. 5 the following amendments and additions are made: The authority issuing the act referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) shall be responsible for the performance of the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be responsible for the performance of the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 216, para. 1 shall have the right to appeal the order referred to in Article 1. 156, para. 3 and under art. 216, para. 3. The proceedings before the court shall be called upon by the applicant, the authority which issued the act under art. 216, para. 1 under Article 156, para. 3 and under art. 216, para. 3, and the interested parties. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 6 after the words the Municipal Property Act is added or evidence of ownership in favour of the investor of the site is added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 is created. 6: It's six. for the construction of industrial zones or technological parks with the necessary technical infrastructure for attracting investments designated as national sites within the meaning of the State Property Act by decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u35	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will draw attention to the unsupported proposal of my colleague Hamid. It changes the individual administrative acts of the main architects of municipalities, such as refusals to coordinate and approve investment projects and building permits, together with approved investment projects and refusals to issue them, where they are not an integral part of a complex investment initiative project, are subject to an appeal for validity and legality to the heads of regional directorates for national construction control. Here, colleague Hamid has proposed that we have prior control before the relevant administrative authority in the face of the head of the DNCC, respectively, of the head of the RDNC, that is, we are changing the current order of direct dispute before the administrative court, repeating a certain new instance in the face of the National Building Control Directorate authorities. In my opinion, this is an interesting idea and should be discussed, but not in this way and not within the scope of this bill. The scope of this bill is quite different from what my colleague Hamid proposes. His idea must be formed in a separate bill, in my opinion, to go through first reading, to go through second reading, through detailed discussion, with the respective opinions of both the Supreme Administrative Court and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and only then to proceed to similar types of amendments in the Law. It does not seem appropriate now to support such an amendment, which provides for a different order of challenge, since that order of challenge has been changed by the legislative authority. At the very least, while complying with the Law on Regulatory Acts, we must respect that there is a minimum of one year to apply the relevant norm before going to its amendment and supplement, or at least if it is not applied for at least one year, at least we have a subsequent impact assessment for its application, which we do not have in this case. We have no opinion, I say again, of the Supreme Administrative Court on this bill, so that we can comply with their opinion, nor the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which, in my opinion, requires this proposal not to be accepted. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have united around this opinion and I hope that in this case you will support the Commission's opinion and do not support the proposal of colleague Hamid, which is otherwise interesting, but I say, not in this way, not at this time should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Hamid Hamid. They voted 65 MPs: 8 against 11, 46 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5 by importer which shall become § 6. Vote 64 MPs: 64, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u38	Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... The Cadastral and Property Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 4. For the initiation of the proceedings for amendment of the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 for territories in which more than 50 land estates fall, the notification to the interested parties shall be made by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency by means of a notice published in the Official Journal. The advertisement is published in suitable places with public access in the buildings of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Office, the municipality and the City Hall, at the location of the properties. The announcement in the buildings of the Office of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the municipality and the City Hall, at the location of the properties, shall take place within 5 days of the promulgation in the Official Journal. (b) The current para. 4, 5, 6 and 7 become respectively. 5, 6, 7 and 8. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 5 words................................................................................. 51, para. The information referred to in paragraph
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u39	Statements? Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the proposal that I have made in the Transitional and Final Provisions concerning the Cadaster Act and the property register is entirely focused on the wishes of the state, respectively of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency, to cover the entire country with a Cadastral Map as quickly as possible. This is a process and reform that we started a few years ago with some serious changes to the Cadastral and Property Register Act, and in fact, if I have to be as precise and objective as possible, this is a text that should have been adopted in the latest amendments to the Cadastral and Property Register Act, but we literally missed it. The aim of this text is to facilitate the Agency, with, when it comes to territories related to more than 50 sites, over 50 properties, the announcement not to be made to each of the owners in accordance with the AKC order, but to be done by announcing in the Official Journal and the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We believe that with such a change for the development, award by the Chair of the Agency to amend or supplement the cadastral maps and registers of such large territories, the right of each owner to be aware that such a procedure has started, as we are again talking about over 50 properties, respectively, for a large territory. Naturally, all these notices will be placed as the Law requires it so that the investment process can go smoother. We know, without maximum coverage, fast coverage of 100% of the state territory with Cadastral map and registers, the investment process is slowing down, and our desire is to speed it up as fast as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u42	Proposal of the MPs Toma Bikov, Stanislav Ivanov and Nikolay Alexandrov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... The Investment Promotion Act shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2 is created t. 9. Nine. submit proposals to the Council of Ministers for determining industrial zones or technological parks with the necessary technical infrastructure to attract investments for national sites within the meaning of the State Property Act. 2. In the Additional Provisions: (a) § 1 t. 12 is amended as follows: ..12. It is a collection of one or more adjacent land-based properties located in territories for which, according to a spatial plan, a purpose for production activities is defined. (b) Paragraph 1a shall be created: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. Industrial zones or technological parks with the necessary technical infrastructure for attracting investments can be designated as national sites within the meaning of the State Property Act by decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u43	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u44	According to § 6 the text of the person who made the proposal of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Private property disposal proceedings initiated shall be completed in the new order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 6 by importer which shall become § 9. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. That concludes the second vote of the Law. Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova, for presenting the project. We move to the third point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR MONTH OF MAY 2019 I'll read the draft decision. Project! DECISION for the work of the National Assembly in May 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings on 22 and 23 May 2019. 2. Meetings of parliamentary committees shall be held in the days referred to in point 1. 3. In the period from 20 to 23 May 2019 including the MPs do not use official transport from the National Assembly except for the days in which they participated in meetings of the parliamentary committees. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORCES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2018 Dear General Popov, are you going to present the Defence Committee Report? Please, you have the floor. My fellow Members, I hope that, while we are listening to the report, there will be elements of military discipline in plenary. Or am I kidding myself?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I request a procedure for access to Lieutenant General Dimitar Iliev's room.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u47	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite General Iliev to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the report, my dear General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u48	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Robbery on the State of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-03-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 April 2019. At a meeting on 9 May 2019 the Defence Committee discussed a report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-03-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 April 2019. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov, the Chief of Defence General Andrey Botsev and the Director of the Defence Policy and Planning Directorate. The Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov pointed out that the Defence and Armed Forces State Report was drawn up in implementation of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Explain that in accordance with this Article of the Law, the National Assembly shall rule on the Report by decision. He stressed that the report reported a year in which important things happened in defence. On behalf of the importer The report and the reasons for it were presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov. The focus in the analytical part of the report is on identifying the identified problems. At the same time, optimal management decisions are defined for maintaining and building the defense capabilities of the armed forces, which are based on the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and comply with Programme 2020 and Plan 2020. The main conclusion in the report is that the state of defence capabilities allows the armed forces to carry out their mission tasks arising from constitutional duties but with restrictions. The restrictions are related to the resource available, the state of the arms and fighting equipment and the deadlines for the implementation of the modernization projects. High levels of non-completion by servicemen are maintained, but efforts to recruit and detain prepared personnel are beginning to produce results. The increase in the wages of the servicemen and the expected next increase has a positive impact on the motivation of the servicemen. The report focuses on the preparation of the armed forces and efforts to maintain the weapons and fighting equipment to carry out the tasks. In 2018, 301 exercises were conducted, which is 4% more than the previous year. According to the mission, the support of international peace and security (Support of international peace and security) groups and individual servicemen participated in 11 missions and operations abroad with a total of 1420 people, which is an increase of 47%. According to the mission, the Bulgarian army participated in 103 operations in support of the population of disasters with a total of around 728 servicemen and 229 units of equipment. 85 non-explosive ammunition neutralization operations were also carried out. In 2018, defence costs amounted to 1592.88 million. lv. and represent 1.48% of gross domestic product for 2018. There is an increase in real spending by 0.2% of gross domestic product compared to 2017. This figure is close, but does not reach what is at stake for the year in the National Defence Plan for 2% of GDP by 2024. The reason is that the funds invested in the central budget for the three main modernization projects of the armed forces have not been exhausted. Nevertheless, much of these funds have been redirected to repair and repair of arms and fighting equipment. In 2019, efforts will be directed towards further development of the Ministry of Defence as a modern institution and implementation of the activities under Programme 2020 and Plan 2020. A Strategic Defence Review has started, for which are the organizational orders on the direction of the review and are expected the main conclusions as of September 2019. National Representative Boris Vangelov expressed support for the report. He underlined that the report is extremely objective and that the shortcomings are not saved. The state of defence and the armed forces is detailed, clear and understandable. At the same time, the positive things that have happened in all areas of defence policy are said quite modestly. He believes that it is important to stress that thanks to the concern of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the parliamentary majority and the public support, important things have been done for the defence by preparing the commanders, through the care of the staff to receive a decent wage, until the maintenance, restoration and modernisation of arms and fighting equipment. People's representative Emil Hristov pointed out that the report has many positive aspects and relates to previous reports. Expressed concern about the main report and asked to be specified for the Defence Committee what are the restrictions on the implementation of the Armed Forces missions in order to seek adequate approaches to their removal. National Representative Valentin Radev thanked for the report and the way he was prepared. Noticed that the Ministry of Defence should not be burdened with additional non-military functions, but should focus on defence capabilities. Welcomes the government's efforts to take care of the defence people, measures to overcome the lack of personnel and increase the budget; Recommends no imbalance in pay in the sector "Secure". Offered to consider whether it is necessary to reach 2% by 2024, and whether investments are appropriate to repair and repair old Russian equipment, or to increase efforts to implement modernization projects and purchase new weapons and fighting equipment. People's representative Plamen Manushev pointed out that once again a qualitative report was presented and noted that the reports on defence and the armed forces are getting better in terms of analysis and conclusions. He believes, however, that, as a content, the report is more detailed than necessary. He explained that an optimal balance should be sought in the exercises carried out. Advantage to be given to command and computer-assisted exercises, taking into account that the exercises at tactical level are related to costs and depreciation of arms and fighting equipment. In response to the questions asked, Deputy Minister of Defence Anatoly Velichkov explained that on a mission "Defense." substantial efforts are being made to overcome the restrictions through preparation, assembly with personnel and maintenance of weapons and fighting equipment. He believes that until new weapons and fighting equipment are acquired, we are obliged to maintain what is available. In this regard, compared to previous years, in 2018, a lot was done, such as dock repairs for Navy funds, repairs of the main tank of battle, of Su 25 aircraft, MiG-29 and others. A good boost has been given to maintaining defence capabilities, which has contributed to improving the situation of defence industry enterprises as well. Agree that costs are still being incurred which do not bear defence capabilities. As an example, he pointed to the security of warehouses and military areas. In the course of the strategic defence review, a detailed assessment will be made and opportunities for consolidation, introduction of technical means and more optimal use of military police capabilities will be sought. The Chief of Defence General Andrey Botsev added that on each of the missions the armed forces can carry out their tasks, but if necessary simultaneously and in parallel, restrictions arise. In certification of declared formations also appear restrictions. When preparing missions, it is necessary to redirect personnel and combat equipment from other units. He believes that the contracts concluded with the additional funds allocated in 2018 will result in improving the state of the arms and fighting equipment, which should take place at the end of 2019. It is also positive that the negative trend has been stopped and for the first time in 2018 around 180 servicemen have been accepted more than those left. In conclusion, the Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov pointed out that the report is objective and critical in terms of weaknesses. It is necessary to emphasise the huge amount of work that has been done and the government's attitude shown with the provision of significantly more opportunities to maintain and develop defence capabilities in all their components. On the basis of the debates and opinions held, the members of the Defence Committee with 13 votes for the defence; 1 vote against the defence and without abstention, the following opinion was adopted: The Defence Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt by decision a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-03-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u49	Thank you, dear General. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I request another procedure for access to the chamber of the Chief of Defense General Andrey Botsev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u51	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 65 MPs: for 65, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite General Botsev to enter the room. A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, please, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to introduce you to the position of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers on the failure of the negotiations for the purchase of F-16. Yesterday, the military minister admitted that the negotiations on his so-called expensive aircraft did not go, that it is very likely that there would be no deal and that his delegation could not negotiate in Washington an acceptable price. In other words, he finally admitted that he did not have the capacity to protect the national interest. A few days ago, the US Ambassador said that he was aware of the impossible price offered to us for F-16, for our small country - beautiful but robbed Bulgaria, but we were going to become a strategic partner! I don't know how naive she takes us both by plane and without a plane Bulgaria is so located in the Balkans that we will always have a geostrategic role. The question is, how do we use it in the interests of our country and people, or is it in the interests of foreign countries and foreign peoples? A former military minister, a military expert, says in an interview that the plane does not exist at the moment. It is on paper, and will start producing it if we pay in advance, i.e. polish another lie that will be paid deferred. Another fact with our Bulgarian people money will be opened four thousand jobs in America. Four thousand jobs in America with our Bulgarian money from the hard, stolen, robbed, bad living Bulgarian people in their own homeland! This acknowledges in his post in social media Trump's advisor John Bolton. He even talks about, I quote: Bulgaria's contribution to providing work to four thousand Americans and the efforts our people are making to buy this plane. Can you imagine?! We are also admired in the United States that the Bulgarian people are making great efforts to create these jobs in the United States for the welfare of the American people! No, gentlemen, the people don't want to make an effort for such a purchase. He wants politicians to make sure that our people have money in their pocket. Why should the poor and suffering Bulgarian people, much of whom lives on the threshold and below the poverty threshold, give billions to have jobs for other peoples?! Where in all this do you see government thinking and even less patriotism?! I'm going to open a brace here. Perhaps it's a coincidence that after the word "patriotism" was taken, the so-called Patriots started using the word "patriotic love," they ran panicked and tried to save themselves, they were going to be conservative, now suddenly became patriots. Welcome to our coalition! I'll tell him one thing: you're weak in big deals, you're not good at it. There's a lot to learn. Your power must be in the henhouse. So I propose that on behalf of the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers, Parliament should cancel the decision to start the negotiations for the purchase of F-16. Karakachanov's delegation in Washington urgently to be brought back and to do nothing more, because so far they have been exposed and spent a lot of Bulgarian money. We're going to want a report on how much money has been spent on these pointless and fruitless negotiations. We insist that the government urgently undertake the much more important tasks "urgent measures to raise the standard of living of the Bulgarian people and not of the American people." We from the Bulgarian patriots are asking for urgent measures to increase the standard of living of the Bulgarian people. This is the true patriotic dream, goal, cause, direction of development of our country. I will not tire of repeating first the Bulgarians and their incomes, then everything else. Thank you. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. We are continuing our debate on the Report. Dear Mr. Vangelov, you had a request for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will speak on the ground, and I will not make political statements and declarations. The report, which is presented to the attention of the National Assembly, is another one that we are considering in this mandate. Like the previous one, this one is distinguished by its extreme objectivity. We all know that when the administration wants to blur or show how it doesn't work, it does bulky, nothing significant reports with many words in which one wonders what it wants to say. In this case, however, we have one, I would say, a perfect report in which neither negative trends nor positive achievements and successes have been saved. It is very important that the report is intended for the MPs, but also for the general public, it is written understandable, even for non-specialists. Anyone who reads it can gain a clear picture of the state of our armed forces. In this sense, the report is also accessible. This objectivity, accessibility and understanding are its great qualities that are visible, yet I say, for anyone who bothers to read it. However, I think, as was also pointed out in General Popov's report, that they are very modestly highlighted and positive trends and processes in the field of defence have been said, which are a fact thanks to the current governance. The shortcomings are shown clearly and in detail, but the achievements have somehow been said very modestly. What do I mean? After decades of defeating the Bulgarian Army, which is one of the Stojeers of the Bulgarian statehood, we have consecutive years of increase, and not symbolically, of the salaries of all soldiers, and this trend will continue in the coming years, if Bulgaria still realises such good economic growth and growth of gross domestic product, which reached 105 billion. lv. for 2018 Another great achievement mentioned in the report, which should be said as an argument against such things that we have just heard from the speaker, is that, after all, the National Assembly, the ruling majority and other MPs and groups supported the three modernisation projects. After decades of no modernization, after decades of not acquiring any fighting equipment, these three projects are now moving, and one is already negotiating the purchase; the other is opening the bids and being evaluated; the third is also progressing. Although at different speeds, they still move in a common time range of several months. So that's something that hasn't happened in the last decades. I'm going to jump over things like the army's new uniforms. But a very important thing I want to focus on is that for the first time money has been allocated from this government and this majority for the repair of the MiG-29 aircraft and the SW-25.......................................................................... Since modernization will be a decade of this is only its initial stage, it is quite normal at some point to have a new and older fighting technique, but the old fighting technique is not at all underestimated and it also has its ability to protect our country. We cannot fail to mention the excellent results of the Naval School, which is at European level, not to say at global level, and this is convinced everyone, including foreign presidents and heads of state, who attend the school. A great dignity of this governance and of defence policy is the restoration of the Air School after its absolute criminal closure in 2002. I won't tell anyone who was and was in charge then. Excellent results are also available at the Military Medical Academy, but I will try not to list everything, because only what I have said so far is enough "in the current government and the current ruling majority" defence policy has finally started an upward trend in strengthening Bulgaria's defence capabilities. What does an army need? An army needs good commanders, good technique, decent wages and political will to implement these policies. Good commanders The Bulgarian army has always had them, there are them today. They have proven their abilities and qualities in the battlefields, and our modern commanders and generals have proved their qualities in joint exercises with NATO partners and missions abroad. We also need a good technique - I have already said that this is not only the three major modernization projects, but also the dozens of other smaller ones, which are less talked about and known about in society. It is increasing and there is also political will. In fact, we have a very rare coincidence in recent decades, not to say that there has not been such a May before, of the will, of the concern of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, of the Council of Ministers, of the parliamentary majority, and not least of the majority of the Bulgarian people. Proof of the latter that the Bulgarian people support defence policy is the fact that the army still has a very high rating despite attempts to marginalize it in the first decades of transition. Finally, I would like to say to some politicians in Bulgaria that after 500 years of feeding and supporting a foreign army, it is high time to show government thinking and start supporting and caring for our own army. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. Are there any lines? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Honorable Generals! Every year by the end of March, such a report is given in the National Assembly and the public is acquainted with the state of the armed forces and defence. As my colleague before me said, this year is not an exception, we are already adopting a report on the state of defence a second time. What are the differences? I will mention some of the specifics of the report, and some of them I also noted in my speech in the Defence Committee. First of all, I would like to say that the report is moderate, there are no unnecessary things in it. The 50 pages are in the direction of being convinced or told to the Bulgarian citizens what the Bulgarian army, the armed forces and the Ministry of Defence is doing to ensure art. 9. As mentioned in the Commission and the present Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Velichkov, the implementation of art. 9 is ensuring the sovereignty, security and territorial integrity of the country. The report and previous reports say that this is done under certain restrictions. It is widely interpreted by both the opposition and experts in the field of what exactly.......................................................................................... Yes, with some limitations, because we would like the responsibilities that are being fulfilled by the armed forces and the Ministry of Defence to be much more, or at least more, than these, but at the moment the opportunities are such. This means, in short, the word.................................................... And in the Commission I mentioned that in this background I was slightly surprised by the desire of the Ministry of Defence to be burdened with additional functions related not only to the protection of borders, as we, our parliament, under art. 57 when helping the Ministry of Interior and with additional functions. They've had enough of this, according to us. I repeat, this is yet to be further debated under these restrictions, under the opportunities provided by the state. The report, in my opinion, is objective, without unnecessary things in it. The care for the people in the defence is clearly seen in the focus of the government, of the colleagues from the United Patriarchs and GERB, as governors, and of the Ministry of Defence. This is visible throughout the sector, not only in the sector. You know that one of the reasons for serving in the Bulgarian Army, in general in the armed forces, is payment. The pay is constantly increased by 10-11%, in places they are and more, I am talking in general about the armed forces, about the Bulgarian army, as has already been reported by General Botsev to the Commission. This trend is important to preserve and to have such an increase each year. Private sector salaries in places where there are and are distributed military units cannot be higher than those in the Ministry of Defence. Of course there's gonna be a leak in people. For example, from the 48th Brigade, all or much of the servicemen who want or were in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army go to the military factories in Kazanlak. That's what we've managed to cross in some way with the increase in wages. This is the way, but not just by raising wages. From this tribune I also have to say something that is still going and which I can think of for the payment of the 20 salaries at the end of the service. There's a riot in the army right now. It is good for the people's representation to say that such a thing is neither discussed nor found in anyone's head! This is still some fantasy or an attempt by the opposition to stir up turmoil in the heads of the servicemen. There's no such thing for a number of reasons! It's enough to announce from here that there is no such thing. The report does not address this issue, but I mention it in relation to the fact that it is a package of social services, other than the salaries that hold or attract young people and girls in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. The number I have heard, as the first trend is reversed, bravo to the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, is that over 150, in the Report I see 180, but as if it were more than 150, the number is moving, in more servicemen who enter the ranks of the Bulgarian Army, than those who leave. I appreciate this trend very much. It's similar in the entire sector. Is the money too much? Is it too much? 1 billion 592 million for 2018. I notice the trend. In the Report on p. 8 has a very nice graphics. The money is given to the Ministry of Defence in 2014, 2015 and 2016 and 2018 years. We see the preservation of the trend of 2015 and 2016 are equal, then 2017 and 2018 go to 1,27% of gross domestic product and reach 1.48% in 2018. You know that the goal is 2024 to reach 2%. It's a goal, we still have time. Now the trend our government has achieved with our coalition partners is good. It is also appreciated by our NATO partners. One very important thing that we have drawn attention to in the Commission, and what we have insisted for years on doing is the ratio between staff, maintenance and capital expenditure. This is even more important to me than increasing the means of defence, because for years now, apart from the purchase of equipment that was not needed by the armed forces, went to capital expenditure, this ratio has been violated. The ratio in NATO is 60:20:20, and here I heard numbers that we are going to 29 for capital expenditure at the moment. We're crossing even the border, so there's money to buy equipment. Here is the place to mention that the third government of GERB managed to do so together with the United Patriarchs and our coalition partners, of course, that besides education, in the first place, and further priorities economy and so on, almost unspoken priority became security and defence. Huge funds are being set aside. The opinions of different political forces are different. We heard Mr. Mareshki's statement. Some are for the armed forces, others are not quite, others are frankly against the funds allocated to the armed forces. I think that's the right thing to do. The right thing and the best thing I notice is the ratio we're talking about. Mostly what the money's for. It is not enough to give a lot of funds, but also how to use them in the right way. We've always set an example that I'm going to stress again because it's very frattive. There were more than 2.5 per cent of the gross domestic product ten years ago, the government and the Ministry of Defence had such a percentage. So what if vehicles were bought? I've mentioned it: both Spartan and Cougar and transport vehicles, ships and other means. That's how the ships were bought, except the frigates. Mostly from Germany, Italy, France, I mentioned the main contracts that the first government paid off. That's what happened then. Now more importantly, the emphasis is on buying fighting equipment. Speaking of F-16s, we're talking about ships, we're talking about infantry fighting machines, that is, we're focusing on buying what the armed forces need. I'm not talking about the gaps, I'm talking about the right spending. This makes a good impression on me and it is reported in this year's Defense and Armed Forces Report. Something important, which I would also like to highlight. We have said it several times, it was also a thread that the MPs from GERB tried to push through, to urge and literally force ministers - including Minister Nenchev, now Minister Karakachanov, to pay attention to what they do and where they spend the money. Except for the fighting technique that I said, to make a very good balance and to find the measure between what funds should be given to maintain the existing basic Soviet, not even Russian technique, and to look for opportunities to buy compatible with our coalition partners NATO and the European Union, with the armies of Europe technique. This is very important. The funds being given recently, I asked Deputy Minister Velichkov, he was defending himself, but this balance must again be looked literally under a magnifying glass. It is not good to give money for a technique that is not compatible with NATO's, for old technology. Yes, there is such talk, but I think we should rely mostly on military expertise. They say, be careful and literally encourage ministers, political leadership to go and look for new equipment, as the delegation is currently doing in the States for F-16. I don't know if we should talk about this. In my opinion, the very opposite is always to be careful. When it comes to military deals, there should be a little more silence. Here and Mr. Mareshki made a statement on the matter. I'll hold off. I will just remind you that whatever report he writes, whatever political leadership does, will remain in history if they manage at least one of the three projects to bring it to the end. Already the third government of GERB, now a coalition, of course, and the second time, we are trying to do something in this direction. It didn't work out for different reasons. Now we need the silence. It is good to become what the NATO delegations are doing at the moment: to acquire a new technique, a new type of combat plane, such as F-16; to go to the second project for the ships; to go to the third project, which is still slowing down, but this is the direction. Throwing money for Soviet equipment, maintaining it in this direction should be very careful. In conclusion, we also said in the Commission, and we were all there for the report, we will support the report. I hope you'll support him in this room as well. I conclude again with this "The report is informative enough, accessible enough written "I agree with Mr. Vangelov, who spoke before me, so that the public will be aware of the state of defence and the armed forces. To be more moderate in the assessments of what exactly the government and the Ministry of Defence are doing in the direction of the new projects. Let's give them time and opportunity. It is very difficult when it comes to so much money being spent responsibly. I'm counting on it and I believe it will be done by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u57	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. General, Mr. Lieutenant General! I'm gonna say a few words on the report. As I said in the Commission, we must first note that the report has been made extremely professional. With each passing year, the Ministry of Defence and the Defense Headquarters make reports that fully meet the requirements of the Law. And in the Commission, I said that these reports are quite detailed and are not for such public discussion because they have information that is sensitive and that officers in their activities are limited to exporting and showing, and this report shows a lot of such things. Perhaps in this direction, on this subject we should consider whether such details should reflect the life of the Bulgarian Army, the trends in its development, the problems and everything else, although society has a right to know. Regarding the contents of the report, colleagues spoke quite a bit. Mr. Radev said how the defense spending trends are developing. This is positive and is good, because our commitment to 2% of gross domestic product is being implemented by 2024, this is the trend. I must tell the ladies and gentlemen of the House that this is not an end to itself. These 2% include costs that must make the Bulgarian army really modern, meeting the modern requirements and reliable partner of our allies. This is also planned in the Plan for the Development of Armed Forces by 2020, and now it is being developed and in a further perspective we will surely adopt a new strategic document on how to develop our armed forces and a strategic review of the security sector is going ahead and a review of the Defense Department. In the Commission, I focused on the actions and implementation of exercises in the Bulgarian Army. In society, there is a view that the more teachings, the better the army works, the better it does. I, as a man who spent his life in it, wish that the ratio of teachings would be a little different, on their scale relating to the level of conduct of these teachings, as reported by platoon, work, battery, battery battle group, brigade and above. The report shows that at the level of armed forces and over it, only the Navy was conducting exercises. The Naval Forces make their annual teachings, which includes the entire fleet, the Bulgarian army with divisions and civil organizations......................................... about 20 institutions, ministries and organizations. This is normal for a kind of modern army, as the challenges and possible conflicts will develop exactly in this light. They wouldn't just be the military army to take their hats and go to build somewhere and fight some other army. In conflict, all institutions, the whole country and the population are involved in a crisis situation if they, of course, take place in the country's territory. My wish is to really make sure that the headquarters are worked out with less leaving the troops to save money and not spend the resources of the technique. There must always be a balance between the two things... how many exercises you do and how much resources you have left on the technique you have. When you make your plan, can you replace it soon, if you can extend its resources, there must be balance in order to have weapons and equipment to carry out your constitutional duties. The use of computers, of command and command teachings where there are not so many resources, this must be done in particular in an international environment with the use of English in order to make sure that our generals and officers wherever they go serve, wherever they are called or sent to such an international environment, they must be able to perform their duties, be competent, no matter what international staff his headquarters are, what troops they are in. This is normal for all NATO member states, and I think that we should pay serious attention to this and do so. It is normal that in one exercise of the Bulgarian Army the working language should be English, to have officers from many countries and each in his post to carry out his duties and report on what he should do. This is how really serious interoperability is achieved. I cannot fail to say good words and words of gratitude to the officers, generals and soldiers of the Bulgarian Army for what they do. Indeed, they do, and I have personally observed many of them, with desire, with self-esteem and pride, that they are trained soldiers of a NATO member country, but at the same time often do so with a technique that is in a state that makes them put much more effort into it than their colleagues in NATO. Huge gratitude to these Bulgarian men and women who have dedicated themselves to this profession in the service of the motherland, in the service of Bulgaria and really perform it with honor. Therefore, in the years, we have to admit, now as a politician, although I cannot quite feel like such an officer, we are indebted to the Bulgarian Army. We must do so in opposition to the statement of colleague Mareshki that we should give what is necessary to the Bulgarian army. The people in it to serve with dignity, pride and really fulfill their constitutional duties. And one day, when these reports are made, let's not say they can carry out some of their duties with restrictions. The restrictions largely come from the fact that we, as politicians, as the National Assembly, have not provided what the Bulgarian Army needs. The Bulgarian army is being built, fulfilling its constitutional obligations in all cases in the form of art. 5 of the Washington Treaty, that is, always coalition, always with the Allies. It is not made and is not planned to lead a circular defense now. Historically, Bulgaria has always fought in coalitions. In the new story, with the exception of the Serbian-Bulgarian war, in all other cases it was in some coalition, in some alliance. Countries as big as ours always do. It is now a good thing that we are members of the NATO Washington Treaty, with which we firmly guarantee our national security. Years ago, it wasn't really like that. There were years when we wandered after the Warsaw Treaty, we wondered how to secure the country's defences and made plans for circular defense. Although we have good relations with the neighbours, this does not preclude states from having an army as an institution to guarantee in all cases and opportunities, as things change. Bulgaria as a country must ensure its sovereignty and national security with its army. Be a soldier of the Bulgarian Army and the Ministry of Defense. I like it very much. Even though it's from this year, it's been a huge success through cities. I have direct observations in Shumen. There is a huge interest in what the Bulgarian army shows not only as a technique, but as people in the army. Believe me, this is the way to change this ratio, which Mr. Radev talked about how many people enter and how many come out of the army. The active search for soldiers also shows what the Bulgarian army is. I am sure that the Bulgarian spirit is alive and it can be awakened even in places where we do not expect it. There are Bulgarians for whom it is not basically determining the amount of salary. I am sure that there are men and women in Bulgaria who are ready to serve the country, and it pays them money and money that should be more, but not just to keep them there, but to live decently both they and their families. We owe respect to all who serve in the Bulgarian Army. The Ministry has plans to overcome this serious problem of failure in the Bulgarian Army, but it seems that more initiatives are needed. I am glad that the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army are making them, I told you incredible. Perhaps in one of your cities will come this initiative. Be a soldier and you will see what great interest there is in the citizens, the children, the young people. The demand for soldiers in schools is even normal. In Britain, they do it, they pass by, they collect students from the schools themselves, they invite them younger after the 10th grade, they train them for two years and they process who can stay in the army when they are 18 years old, then they give them weapons. That's how people in Britain get together. Gentlemen generals, we need to look more actively. Overruled is the matter. The Bulgarian army is alive, serving, working, fulfilling its constitutional duties. It makes exercises, participates in operations, in missions, in international exercises. You're on the right track. There's a command in Starfleet from the command dictionary that says, "Hold it!" You're on the right course, generals! Long live the Bulgarian Army! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u59	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. - What's the line? I can't see. Docent Mihov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable generals! This report and its consideration today is important, but it cannot be fully carried out. This inability is due to the lack of the left-hand side. The question of the state of defence is part of the big question of national security. The opposition, we must say, abdicates its constitutional obligation and its political responsibility to stand here and by the power at its disposal to show the curvature of government and of the army. It is her duty, led by her responsibility to the state and the nation, to point out where the Ministry is wronging the majority, where the government is wronging this so important element. I'm not saying there are mistakes. I say that the opposition in the face of the BSP today abdicated from its obligation and its national responsibility. The declaration said that negotiations on the acquisition of the new aircraft were failed and needed money not for weapons, but for the people an old propaganda thesis that Bulgaria does not need an army, it does not need weapons, it does not need defence capabilities. Whenever this thesis develops, I remember the words of the brilliant Bulgarian politician, statesman and revolutionary Georgi Stoykov Rakovski, whose name is today's Military Academy. Nearly 200 years ago, he mentioned something very important: "Mechom are the Bulgarians who lost their freedom, they will have to bear it again. " If we have to say this phrase today, it sounds like this: "Mechom the Bulgarians must defend themselves, protect their country and their freedom, something that is historically legal, something that is historically correct. There is neither a prosperous, stable, socialist nor liberal state that exists without a strong army. The Balkans' disproportions have been so significant in the last 30 years that we have fallen behind in this regard towards our neighbours. It's a matter of national security. What does the report say? Here, colleagues have explained quite detailed details of this report. He says there are problems. He does not blame the previous ones, he points to the problems, but he also points to many important trends from last year, which are going in the direction of overcoming these problems, something that we see today and which General Manushev mentioned. With the campaign, be a soldier. The problem of the Air Force School is solved. Conditions are created for the foundation of modern, dynamic and evolving not only air education, but also a higher school to work in the civil sector, preparing pilots, engineers and ground crew for civil aviation. If this is not a contribution to the Bulgarian economy, then what is it?! The processes related to solving the problem of non-completion in the armed forces. What's written in the report is already in the past. The military command, the generality, shows that the announced competitions this year are developing in a very different way than last year. If you read the Report, you will see that last year there were a number of candidates less than one for one place. Today, literally five months after the end of 2018, there are many more candidates for all competitions than the number of seats and the Ministry and the command increase the number of announced contests. Finally, I would say something that is happening before our eyes. The army is returning to its place in society because the Bulgarian army has always been the link between the people and the state. And the expression "People's Army" and "People's Army" has not been invented since 9 September. It was used and expressed the essence of the Bulgarian army and the Bulgarian army in its modern development in the last 150 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u61	Docent Mihov, shall we extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u62	Yeah, extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u63	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u64	Thank you for your help. In this sense today we see both with this campaign and with the official ritual parade appearances of the army, just before the last Gergovski parade, this already made connection between the people and the state. And it is no accident that the rating of the armed forces today turns the Bulgarian Army into one of the most, not to say the most respected institutions in the Bulgarian society. And that, we can say, is the merit of all those who stand in this Parliament, all who support the actions of the government and the majority in the sector. Because we have to say, it's a common merit. And we do not accept the accusations by certain leaders and certain political forces that the means of defence are funds that have been thrown in vain, funds that damage the Bulgarian people, funds that are unnecessary to us, because both the people and the state understand that without a strong army, without a national army there is no nation, there is no Bulgarian national state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u65	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u66	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A lot has been said and the merits of the report have been highlighted. I'll try, I'll try to give the report a slightly different look in two directions. One relates to the details given in the Report. Look, the report is too detailed. We're always pointing that thing out every year. There are data, facts, and information that we would have wondered before whether they were any special information. I therefore allow myself to draw attention to those who draw up the report for next year, and why not the report on the state of security - let us not go further than what makes the reports meaningful and meet the level of the National Assembly. In fact, we are looking at a very detailed report which may be beyond our capabilities and the level of the National Assembly. This is not the place where we should count the exercises that have been carried out so far, and we are not the people who have to evaluate how the teachings have gone and count the details in the armed forces. This is a different level. And here I'm going to go the second direction we need to talk. The construction of anti-terrorism armies is now over. The world's leading forces in military affairs have already not only hinted, they are preparing the next 2020 budgets that lead us to the construction of armies that we were used to. You see, this is the spiral! It didn't stop the guns exactly. That's the spiral. We're going back to where we were many years ago. I mean, what I'm trying to say is that we have to think about what the world's powers are doing. In the 2020 budgets of the United States, of Russia, and China has not made any deviations in the development of its armed forces, you will see a new structure, you will see new goals, you will see new tasks that are essentially those that we know well. So they're preparing for another type of war, they're building another type of armed force. I have carefully read the conclusions and directions that we have in our report. I would like to see, or rather, we Members of the National Assembly, we would like to deal precisely with this, the construction and state of the armed forces, seen through the prism of tomorrow, looked at by what the world's leading military forces are doing. And in this regard, we are currently trying and working to build such forces without making it public, but if the project to purchase a new plane is working in this direction, the question remains for me and we need to talk in this direction: what battle machine for land troops are we looking for............................................................................. I would therefore like the next report to answer these two questions that I am asking. Let's not be so thorough. Let us not do what is not required of us. Let us make a report and let the National Assembly adopt a decision relating to a report that corresponds to the level of the National Assembly. In the Defence Committee, we could consider and carry out exercises and shortcomings, and in general these problems which are inherent at the time of the armed forces, but we would not want to go to the National Assembly to these details, although these details are welcome for all those people who closely monitor the state of defence of the Republic of Bulgaria. And the second direction in which I would like to lead the conversation is: what kind of armed forces we are building for tomorrow, because, lag behind at this stage in planning the funds, lag behind at this stage in setting goals, we have already planned the next day to be filled with the same questions and to look for answers to these questions that we are looking for today for what we have allowed yesterday. We rushed it years ago, we were very democratic, we took the fence down from all borders. Now we're trying to build something like this again. I would like us not to make this mistake to miss what we can make today as a decision for the development of our armed forces for tomorrow, because neither the neighbors will be waiting for us, nor our friends nor our opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u67	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? General Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable General Botsev, Chief of Defence, honourable Lieutenant General Iliev, Deputy Chief of Defence! With regard to the Report and with regard to what has been said, I can, with my name and with my attempt to stand behind all that has been said, but before that I would like to thank for the huge work that is being done by the experts because, in order to prepare one such report, hundreds of people are involved. You don't write a report like that in one day. It starts with gathering information, summarizing, analyzing, and in the end we see this end product. I would like to congratulate the experts who worked at the Defense Department for this report. This report, as has already been announced, shows a very real picture and good efforts by the military leadership, the Ministry of Defence and the government for this, the Ministry of Defence to take the rightful place as a structural-determining ministry in Bulgaria. This is an expression of the increased budget, which is within 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is 2% more than the budget, which was in 2017, and is 1.48 of gross domestic product. But what is good here is that, thanks to the government's efforts, additional resources have been allocated to help restore both arms and equipment and to motivate personnel. A huge amount of work has been done in the ministry itself. I don't know if you have any idea what it means to conduct 301 exercises. And that's more than in 2017. I would also like to highlight another figure of 11 missions and operations abroad, which is 47% more than last year. This shows commitment but also shows the participation of decent, well-prepared people who can operate in such an environment. Of course, here I join all that has been said by Mr. Mihov and good work to overcome the crisis that we had with the filling of personnel, breaking the negative trend and increasing numbers. As a basic conclusion, the report states that the armed forces carry out their mission tasks arising from constitutional duties, but with a restriction. I personally welcome such an assessment, which is extremely true, realistic, which does not hide the problems, but which also shows people's efforts to fulfil their obligations to the state. I will draw very briefly your attention to the areas of work in 2018, which is the essence of this report, namely: - implementation of the National Plan to increase defence spending 2024 and reach 2%. This is the commitment of the government of Prime Minister Borisov, which we will fulfill; - realization of the efforts to modernize and acquire new modern fighting technique. I'm really going to join a talker here who said less of this needs to be talked about. There is a time when it will be discussed, there is a time when decisions will be made. Premature talk about such large projects is not very appropriate. And to encourage the government's efforts, the Ministry's policy is reasonable, because if there is no modernization, we will face the problem in five, six, ten years to ask what army we have? Well, we won't have an army. If there is no modernization, there will be no army. I also appreciate the efforts of the Ministry, the government to maintain the existing technique. The other direction that is reported in the Report and I hope there will also successfully continue the work, this is on motivation, and I would like to stress again the promotion of the fighting spirit of the servicemen and of the Bulgarian army. And, of course, we must also take into account the government's desire to carry out a comprehensive review of the security system and to carry out the so-called strategic defence review, which actually lays the foundations of the future Bulgarian army. Finally, I just want to say that these directions are for work in 2019, but in fact these directions are not only for 2019. These are strategic directions that have a long-term character. Of course, we here must seek agreement, and this agreement I hope we find in this Parliament. I therefore suggest that we vote for this report, it is good, critical, realistic, with good intentions, with good estimates for the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-15.u69	Thank you, dear General Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I'll read to you: Project! DECISION adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. With this, colleagues, we have exhausted the agenda for today. Tomorrow - regular plenary session 16 May 2019 at 9.00 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
