ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our Rules of Procedure each parliamentary session shall be opened with the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union. Please stand up and listen to the hymns. [[(Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound. (Applause)]] Thank you, colleagues. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Happy New Year 2019! Let us wish it to be fruitful and successful at the beginning of the year. Let us strive this year for all of our efforts and actions to be constructive, constructive and our activities to be generally useful, guided by the awareness of our high responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens. This year, elections will be held in our country for representatives of the European Parliament and for the local authorities. All this implies political speaking and party opposition, but it is up to us to turn the vote not as a reason to denigrate the opponent and to lower what we have achieved, but in a controversial sports competition where they face each other worthy candidates with clear and strong political messages. Allow me to remind you of the words of Petko Karavelov: This is the work of history: were the parties right or wrong in their government...................................................................................... Dear colleagues, during this parliamentary session we will celebrate an important anniversary for the Bulgarian state When we recall the work of the founding fathers and all our predecessors, we have clear criteria for evaluation, namely what Bulgaria wanted to build and how they managed to be useful to her and their people. These are the criteria on which people will appreciate our work as MPs. So let us wish for a full and effective parliamentary activity that is part of the efforts to ensure prosperity for our country and its citizens. Thank you and a successful year! [[Applause.]] I will now propose to you a draft work programme for the National Assembly for 11 January 2019: 1. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Animal Health. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2018. 2. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 180, against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I will read you a few messages about drafts and drafts for Decisions 19 December 2018. "January 10, 2019: Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2018. 20 December 2018. Importer is the Commission for disclosure of documents and declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importer is the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Report of the Bulgarian National Bank January "June 2018" and Budget of BNB for 2019. Import is Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Report on the implementation of the National Programme for the Development of Physical Education and Sport 2013 - 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to protect trade secrets. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision to examine the proposals and the reasons for them set out in the Council of Ministers' report on the results of the evaluation of the proposals submitted according to the Indicative Plan (Travel map) 51 of 2018) and assigning the Prime Minister to set up an organisation and negotiating team to draft an international treaty and negotiate with the United States Government to acquire a new type of combat aircraft. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Messages. The National Assembly has received: - Report of the Chairman of the Board of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 November 2018. "24 December 2018 and Protocol No 1 of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund meeting held on 3 January 2019 at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly; - the Court of Auditors of the National Assembly has received the Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2019. The programme has been submitted by letter of exit No 824-00-23 by the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly; The National Statistical Institute received information about Construction Production Indexes in November 2018, Industrial Production Indexes in November 2018, R &amp; D Indexes in the section of the R &amp; D &amp; D, without car and motorcycle trading in November 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, according to the parliamentary tradition, each session of ours begins with a statement of the parliamentary groups according to their numbers, with the statements being broadcast directly on the Bulgarian national television channel 2 and on the Bulgarian national radio. I'm proposing a direct broadcast of the statements. Please, voting mode. Vote 194 MPs: 190 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras. We move on to statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups. First is the parliamentary group of the political party GERB. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to congratulate you with the coming of the new 2019. Let it be peaceful and good for Bulgaria and let us actually work only and only guided by public interests! This year's political calendar includes important elections, the first of which is for the European Parliament and the second for local authorities. This ensures intensive political debate throughout the year, which should stimulate the legislative activity of the Bulgarian Parliament and the work of all state institutions. I very much wish that in the coming months pragmatism in this room would silence populism and that political arguments would take the edge of the spells. There are politicians among us who still do not understand that people do not take their insultingly loud tone, because according to many Bulgarians such pathos is deeply insincere and unproductive. Political party GERB is proud that it is perceived as the most European party in Bulgaria. This is what nearly half of Bulgarians claim in research since December 2018. BSP has been defined as a categorically pro-European party of only 11%. Against this background it seems logical the leadership of BSP to imagine the eurovot mainly as a reason for measuring the forces between BSP and GERB and as an assessment of the management of GERB. From 23 to 26 May around 500 million citizens from the European Union will choose 705 MEPs, including 17 Bulgarians. In GERB we place the task of having six or more MEPs in the next European Parliament, as well as working for the European People's Party to be the first political force. The European People's Party has kept its promises since 2014. The European economy has been brought back to growth, 12 million new jobs have been created, unemployment has been at the lowest since 2008. Since 2015, the number of illegal immigrants has decreased by 90% thanks to the measures taken. These results are achieved by policies and efforts of all countries in the European Union. Europe remains facing common challenges that cannot be solved by any country individually. Realizing this, in early February this year GERB will initiate a civil dialogue under the heading: the Europe in our home. We all need to work for a safer, prosperous, fair, sustainable and united Europe. We in GERB's parliamentary group support the European Parliament in its intentions to turn the euro into elections of the European Union. The voters need to know what's at stake with their vote. A common European civil debate on the future of Europe has been under way since 2018. More than eight thousand young people from the member states summarized their expectations for the European Union in 100 ideas, the first ten being presented in the European Parliament within the Youth Parliament in 2018. In the upcoming local elections, expected, each party will strive not only to win, but also to perform better than previous elections. GERB now manages 130 municipalities with population over 5.5 million inhabitants. We want to look with more optimism at the settlements where we have never won a local vote before. Without hesitation, we will nominate our current mayors, who are perceived as successful. We will support the people who have shown that they have contributed to improving the living environment in their settlements. In addition to party evaluations, we will listen to the public sentiments. We will give the green light to the working regional policies. Our aim is to conduct a coherent regional policy that enjoys public approval and non-partisan support. We will therefore also support successful mayors who have been promoted by initiative committees, but who have had a good dialogue over the past four years. One of the important legislative priorities of the new parliamentary season is the debate on amending the Election Code. We will take into account the reports of the Central Election Commission on the experiments carried out, as well as the analysis of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Sofia University for the electronic vote. We are looking for a balance between the high-tech electoral process and attracting the vote of Bulgarians from abroad, on the one hand, and achieving guarantees for the security of the vote, on the other. There are upcoming amendments to the Law on the Judiciary according to the plan of the updated strategy and recommendations in the Report on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism of the European Commission. We will improve the regime for the absorption of software from the structures in the judiciary. We will work on PPC, PDK, APC, as well as on validating the judge's self-government and development of e-Justice. Through amendments to the Penal Code and the Law on Combating Domestic Violence, we will further develop the regime for combating domestic violence and the protection of women and children's personal rights. We will finalise the one-year review of the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Act and after taking into account the opinions of all institutions, we will optimize it. The changes we will make in trade legislation will increase the security of the trade turnover and will protect Bulgarian and foreign investors. We will also develop legislation on electronic administrative services and electronic legal identification of entities. The priorities for us in the field of education: we amend the Law on Higher Education in order to improve the accreditation of higher schools and ensure better quality of education. We offer a programme for development of competence and skills needed for the time of Industry 4.0. We will initiate a debate club for parliament to develop civic competences and career orientation of young people. For the period 2017 - 2019, the budget increased by about 10 billion. lv. Thus, without changing the parameters of tax policy, we can now afford to redistribute more funds, which means that the Bulgarians produce more. In 2019 we direct our efforts to join our country in ERM II and the Banking Union. Bulgaria is the first member of the European Union outside the Eurozone to take the path to the euro after the Bank Union is largely completed. The quality of assets from the European Central Bank and subsequent stress tests are to be assessed. We hope they can confirm the stability of our banking system. In the field of health we regulate the functioning of a single national health information system and expect its main elements to be built by the end of the year. Following changes in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, with which we introduced strict and objective monitoring of stocks and control of parallel drug trade, we expect overcoming the deficit of life-saving and life-saving medicines for Bulgarian citizens. We will continue public and expert discussions in search of the optimal health insurance model. GERB's parliamentary group appealed to fellow MPs in parliament: let the sector of the country of acute political controversy become an example of a non-party dialogue in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. In 2019 we will adopt a new law on water supply. A total of 1 billion. 350 million. lv. is the investment for the water structure, which will receive 14 water operators. We are about to finalise the first stage of the Sanitation Program and create a model for its maintenance. After changes in road design standards relating to their quality and safety, in 2019 we intend to complete the construction of the section Yablanitsa Here I would like to recall the last decision of the Council of Ministers, with which the process for the completion of the highway is irreversible. We will launch a procedure for the construction of the road Vidin Ruzintsi and we will enter into a contract for the construction of the highway Struma. In the field of agriculture, the government is expected to submit to parliament by the end of February a draft law on ownership, land relations and the conservation of agricultural land. During this parliamentary session we will work under the Food Act as well as the Bulgarian Oil Rose Act in response to the demands of producers and processors. For us from the Political Party GERB, the topic of unification behind national causes is particularly important, it is no accident that the slogan of the Bulgarian European Presidency was the "United makes the force." Cases are not missing today, as in Brussels the carriers from the transport companies who contribute to Bulgaria's gross domestic product are protesting. We are aware that if regulations are adopted in the Mobil Pack 1 (Mobile Pack), the larger Bulgarian companies will be forced to work in Central Europe or in countries where regulation does not apply and smaller companies will simply go bankrupt. In such a situation, we are obliged to protect the interests of the carriers, all the more so that their protests are widely supported by the Bulgarians, regardless of their political bias. Prime Minister Borisov, ministers and MEPs from Bulgaria repeatedly in 2017 and 2018 put the problem at the highest European level. Here, this is an example of the unity of a nation behind a cause. In 2019 Plovdiv is European Capital of Culture. Local power, people of spirit and culture and civil society united and created their project together to realize over 400 artistic events. They received support from business as well as from all ethnic communities who believe that dialogue, respect and common cause change our cities and ourselves. Over 1200 volunteers from the country and abroad will work for the purposes of the European Capital of Culture in Bulgaria. Nearly 100 Chitalishtes from the country will present our centuries-old traditions and our amateur art. Artists from 30 countries will participate in the programme. Over two million are the expected visitors in Plovdiv who will get acquainted with our cultural heritage. Here is another good example of unity in the name of a national cause. However, this is not the way the president understands unity, which dedicated his criticism to the government of his address to the nation on New Year's Eve. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Radev reaffirmed his reluctance to work for the people, along with their chosen ones, at the head of power. What kind of unity is he talking about then? For a reason, some described his words as aggression, others as a revolutionary pathos in a convention hall, and others as an expression of personal political ambitions. European media commented that his speech was overpoliticized and suspected that, calling himself a united nation, he managed only to provoke division and hatred. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u4	That is why I would like in 2019 in Parliament to have more common and won causes for all of us in the name of the Bulgarians. I wish successful work of the Bulgarian Parliament and let us remember that Bulgaria is above everything! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. The next statement is on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Colleagues, I will not interrupt the chairmen of the parliamentary groups within ten minutes, let them make their statements as much as they have decided. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u6	Dear Bulgarian citizens, to be happy, peaceful and more generous for Bulgaria and for your families 2019! Every new year we associate with hope for something new, for something better. For us from BSP for Bulgaria and 2019 will end the status quo and start the change in Bulgaria and Europe. It has only been ten days since the beginning of this new year, but they have shown instability, uncertainty, growing poverty, the violation of statehood and the rule of law, corruption, incompetence of governance in domestic and foreign policy, which has led us to internal chaos, and in our external affairs it has dragged in just ten days into two international scandals. The growing poverty during these ten days has shown itself because the economically unjustified and illogical high increase in electricity, water, gas and heating brings thousands of families to an inability to survive the winter. It reached there in the 21st century in Veliko Tarnovo, for example, Bulgarians to give up hot water as a service simply because they can't pay for it. Bulgarian companies are starting to fail and are firing workers because of the enormous jump in the price of industrial electricity. These days we have heard the harshest words spoken in recent years, not by politicians, not by us who are traditionally arguing, but by the real sector, by the Bulgarian economy and companies. The Chairman of one of the employers' organizations said publicly, I quote: The situation in Bulgaria is like a war. We need emergency measures, end of quote. While thousands of Bulgarian families hardly paid their daily bills while they were greeted for Christmas with high prices, five companies received a huge Christmas gift: 1 billion. 350 million. For highway construction! The highways are necessary for Bulgaria and Europe, of course, but this money has been distributed out of the law here, outside the rules, without public procurement, without competition or auction, and also to some companies against which investigations are underway for misuse of funds. We ask: by what criteria have you chosen them, esteemed rulers and Prime Minister? Because the only thing we see is that these companies organised the protest against the Bulgarian Socialist Party for requested verification because of doubts about corruption in the construction of highways. And we all know what is going on, how the model of political and oligarchic ties continues in Bulgaria, even in these ten days of 2019, but we all remain silent. Somewhere we talk in the offices these things, but I think it's time to hear from here and name the names of these bonds, and they are: 1 billion. 350 million out of the law and order for: "Travel Engineering Group", "Glavbolgarstroy", "Hydrostroy", "Passtroy-92" and "Trace Group." Here are the names and faces of the political and oligarchic ties for 2019 and for many years to come! Is it true that there have already been translated advances to these companies? And why rush before the elections outside of any rules to end these procedures?! I leave the answers to you, dear Bulgarians. Incompetence and incompetence of the management noted at the beginning and a vivid example of this is the case with the wineries! You've thrown the whole country into chaos because of your incompetence. The world and Europe already have artificial intelligence. The government of Boyko Borisov cannot introduce an electronic winery. The conclusions are again for our countrymen. It is not enough that, but you did not admit guilt, but you brought us into an international scandal by accusing the company Kapsh " Austria, guilty of what had happened" one of the best in Europe, honourable Europeans, the most European party, the best who did this in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, Poland, the Czech Republic, without a single problem. In Bulgaria, it is not because of Austrian professionalism, but because of the Bulgarian incompetence of the government of Boyko Borisov! You have brought us into another international scandal in just ten days. Abducted ship in the Bulgarian territorial waters with the participation of the Bulgarian state. The case is being dealt with in the United Nations and will seek an international solution through the courts. Dear Europeans, aren't you uncomfortable with this? Two European and not only scandals for ten days on the field of international law?! Unstableness and uncertainty are also evident in the government's decisions of these days. On December 17th, how did you accept the system of electronic, vintage, tol system, on January 2nd, cancel it?! By what decisions have you passed these decisions on to the municipalities by rudely violating the principle of separation of powers............................................................................................... The economy continues for these days, and very soon there will be a development of a case of looting national treasures. There is running, honourable Bulgarians, with full force the concession procedure at Sofia airport. On February 9th, he finished submitting offers. And no arguments about national security, about responsibility for national resources were heard. Imagine this in just ten days without being thorough, because I'm not gonna have enough time. And if this government and this majority rule for a year, what awaits us?! We at the BSP won't sit back and watch what's happening. Here's what we're gonna do. With regard to the prices and assistance of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises and Bulgarian households, we urge the Energy and Water Regulator Commission to become a true regulator instead of serving monopolies and oligarchs to implement all legislative measures for real price coverage and not distorted because of private interests. Otherwise, we are submitting a request for the resignation of the entire Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in Parliament. Corruption and retreat from national interest. The deal with the five companies close to the government, as well as the concession for Sofia Airport, is next week to the European Commission with a complaint for State aid. In both cases, the government of Boyko Borisov helps private interests by violating European rules and Bulgarian laws. For life and prices, honourable Members, we will submit and demand an update of the budget in terms of people's incomes. And don't tell us that it is impossible to make an update at the beginning of the year, because the Council of Ministers makes it every month with decrees of the Council of Ministers, with which it distributes irresponsible money outside any budget rules. This season also showed the attitude towards municipalities with the decision of the Council of Ministers to give money again to municipalities of GERB and DPS outside any rules. Perhaps in view of the upcoming local elections, we are asking ourselves the question. Therefore, if this does not change, today our members in the Management Board of the Association of Municipalities make a declaration: if this practice does not change.. to benefit close to the authority mayors and to harm the inhabitants of the other municipalities, our representatives leave the Management Board of the Association of Municipalities. All solutions to the diseased problems we offer in our Vision for Bulgaria and Vision for Europe and which on 26 January will be officially adopted and will become our Programme for European, early parliamentary and local elections. It is very important what Bulgaria in what Europe we want, because, respected Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria (Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria) when two years ago we asked BSP to be equal to the other European peoples, not to have double standards, you condemned us. It was a sacrilege to pronounce. Then you said, "It's anti-European!" You brought Mr. Lopez in the middle of the campaign to insult us for not wanting double standards in food. Today you are all repeating it together, only it will be difficult to take the turn because all these years GERB and the European People's Party have ruled Europe. And that is why Europe has come to this state! Today, all major European leaders want Europe to change. Because in all these years, you have supported Mrs Merkel's position on migration, and today you will find it difficult to take the turn. You have voted irresistibly on all Brussels official decisions that were in favour of monopolies, of bureaucracy, but not of the European peoples, and you will now find it difficult to distinguish yourself from the status quo in which you were and are currently in Europe. And Europe is moving towards change and we all feel it. That's why we're going to be consistent. For us, Europe, the future, the real one, is the one that respects the national interest of the Member States in which there are no double standards; where there is less bureaucracy and more social Europe. And above all: we will work hard to build the European Prosecutor's Office as quickly as possible, to work and enter Bulgaria. May European justice give justice to the Bulgarian people, which he has never known before. We will be strongly opposed to the Istanbul Convention, against the Migration Pact, against the Macron Package. But in order to have claims that we want to change Europe, we must first start with ourselves. Honourable Members, we know that the government and the majority want in any way to pass the term, and this is normal, so you have taken the elections and want to manage to the end, with all the means of handing out money outside the rules, with the cancellation of a machine vote, with all the attempts to corrupt these elections. We know you want it. But, Prime Minister and majority, how exactly will this happen with 17% confidence in the Bulgarian people, which shows the same sociological study that you quoted yesterday?! With 17% which government do you think it can manage with perspective and make serious reforms that Bulgarian society needs?! This Parliament is exhausted. The same study says: 8% confidence in parliament, in the highest authority in the country! Any attempts for political engineering to continue the life of this majority with a new programming government in which to participate all parties will meet our resistance, because it will be an attempt again to preserve the political status quo against the will of the people to change the years of transition and status quo in the face of the current political class. So for us, this Parliament is with exhausted trust and exhausted opportunities. Dear Bulgarians, we know that you have powers, we know that you can, we hope that you also have a desire to change your life for the better! There is only one way to do this: early parliamentary elections, and whatever you people decide, we will do. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Next is the statement of the chairman of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u8	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable journalists! The year we enter will be historic for Europe. It's not a cliché, it's true. This will be the year of shifting the layers in Europe. Europe must decide what it will be: whether a free territory for illegal migrants to run over it, who come not to work and become integrated members of European society, but to rob, kill, rape. That's what all Europeans saw. And after seeing it, they fingered their heads of state, I mean the biggest countries in Europe that failed. The leaders of Europe's largest countries have failed in their free migration policy, excessive liberalism, the abolition of all bases, the foundations on which European civilization stands. This year, which is coming, there will be a clash in Europe and it will not be a clash of what is called the left and what is called the right. This will be a clash of globalism - anti-globalism - it will be a clash of sorosoism against healthy national, conservative, traditional values on which our peoples, our countries, our countries have been built for centuries, thousands of years. This battle will bring to the fore in Europe political formations and forces that are not members of the current alliances. No matter how much good talk we talk from here about what our intentions are, when you are a member of an alliance that has embraced the philosophy that has accepted the third and sixth sex and imposed it from there, from Brussels, then you are weak. Yes, Bulgaria lost its sovereignty a long time ago. We live in limited sovereignty, but not liquidated. And here the question is: in the months and in the years that come, because the world does not end with 2019, what will Bulgaria, Bulgaria as one people do, because we, whatever we are, different political, different by age, by state, are one people, there is no other. The Bulgarian people are one. If he agrees to be wiped out, no one will blame him. We are a political community, I will not use the word "the elite" because it is contrary to the people in which some of us have been dealing with politics for 20 years. We have the responsibility to indicate where Bulgaria will go. We have two kinds of elections in 2019. For the European Parliament and for local authorities. Both kinds of choices are very important. Whether Bulgaria will again send 17 people to the European Parliament, of which only one or two will stand in clear, healthy, national, national and sustainable positions in the spirit of European civilization, and the others will not even learn their names. Others agree with everything they need: whether it's a gender philosophy, whether we have six sexes, let's not know whether we're men or women, and accept it without reservation. Is this what the Bulgarian people will do, or will they think about it this time and say: we want a team of people who protect Bulgaria's interest in Europe?! Yes, I know that someone from here will immediately stand up and say: there the interests of individual countries do not defend themselves. Yeah, but they're protecting values. The clash of values in 2019 will be crucial for our continent, from which Bulgaria is a major component, I can even say forming a civilization. Will it be possible, with this limited sovereignty that we adopted with our entry into the European Union and NATO, in 2004 and 2007 respectively, to continue to be a state? Whether we will find the way in which the Bulgarian interest is above all else - not the Washingtonian, not the Moscown, not the Bulgarian interest. Whether we use our government, to which I wish reason and wisdom, our judicial authority, to which I wish reason and wisdom, and we as a legislative body, to do so will depend only on us. From there, whether the ratings, the percentages with which the people will have confidence or distrust of the highest legislative body will grow or fall depends on us. It's up to us whether we fail or succeed. It is up to us whether we go to the centre of Europe this time and we will say clearly, to hear the Bulgarian voice clearly: the European Union was constructed incorrectly. It must be an alliance of fatherhood, of sovereign states, of peoples who keep their interest, and do not want to be depreciated. To be an anti-globalist union, to look at its own interests, to lead its economy, to do what is useful for European citizens, and not for those who live in other continents or away from our lands. Can the Bulgarian voice say that in 2019? There are representatives among us who can do this. Patriot formations can do it. How many other parties in Bulgaria will become patriotic because that's the way things are going? You can see that the ideas that we have shared over the past two decades and which have been heretical because of which we have been attacked and vilified I am talking about nationalist and patriotic are now the modern ideas in Europe. They come in fashion. They will be followed by more and more people. We have lived to see fellow Members, the man who made the elections of US President Trump to come to Europe and say: We have lived through the United States, the country that has asked us to be as liberal as we can, to be tolerant of anything that sometimes threatens us as a nation, to say: nationalism must unite. Well, if we've lived through this and this is a historic moment, what are we gonna do? How do we do it? Will we be last-row observers or active participants? I suggest we be participants. I suggest that this year we do not interfere, in an old Bulgarian custom, with each other, because if we overcome this, we are simply invincible. We know that from history. The greatest vice, the greatest weakness of our national character, is that we interfere with each other. If we manage to overcome this very important year for the world, Europe and Bulgaria this vice, at least in a way, I am sure that Bulgaria will show miracles. Bulgaria will show that it is not a periphery country, that it is a country that is not large, but it can indicate, say and demand, it can be a full member of this union, which we call European, but in fact it dictates only one or two countries. We perform and salute. I propose that in 2019 we stop performing and salute before we think about whether it is useful for our national interest. I think that the group I am chairman of is united in being primarily Bulgarians, being people with dignity, showing it where we are going and telling the government what is in the right direction and what is not. We have done so far, and we will do so this year. This year we will also work for something that we have promised, which we have stood before the voters about the increase in incomes. This isn't over. I know there are many criticisms, many attacks on this issue, but the mandate is not over. What we have promised and bet as a program, we will follow. The incomes of the Bulgarians will increase, but I repeat, if we do not interfere very much with each other, at least within the bearable. The opportunities for economic development of Bulgaria will also increase if we overcome the vassal, Mahlenska, rural, complex behavior and do not salute everyone from the east or west who comes to tell us what to do or not to do. Let's be a little more alone this year, because I'm telling you for sure this year won't be boring anything else, but it won't be boring. This will be a year in which we will defend our right to be Bulgarians in Europe of Patriots. I'll work for it. I think that my colleagues, with whom we are now here, will also work on how much the Bulgarian political community will gather the courage to finally tell its partners in Europe: we are a country with which you must comply. I will personally help anyone who wants to do it. You know, I am not a selfish person, I am open, I will give advice, I will give everything I have gained as useful public experience, so that the Bulgarian political community can grow up, be able to defend the Bulgarian national interest. I think this is the year we take the exam. To tell you the truth, this exam is probably not going to have a correctional session. So, fellow Members, pull yourself together! Let's be on the level! I wish all Bulgarians who are watching and listening to us to be ready, to participate actively in the protection of our national interests! We'll be where we should be and where we've always been. We will defend our views and ideas, which are now becoming the most modern in Europe. In personal terms, I wish you and your families strong health and long years of life bordering on immortality, of course, but filled with only good deeds. I wish Bulgaria, a country that has seen much in its history, not only to survive, but to show that it is the country that has created European civilization. Thank you for your attention. God save Bulgaria! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Next is a statement by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u10	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of the new session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and on my behalf Happy New Year to All! I wish health and Berquet in every home! Let 2019 be fruitful and rich, peaceful and successful! Bulgaria to win a worthy place in Europe and internationally! The European Union to find the right way for prosperity of all Member States and prosperity of societies! The beginning of the year is a time of reckoning, an assessment of the past year and a glimpse into the future. In our opinion, the country's governance assessment in 2018 can be determined in three words by scandals and missed time. Scandals. With scandals began the year and with scandals ended. In the small and large coalition, in the country and abroad, there are many examples. Management in the institutions and in the government, between the institutions. Moral examples, unfortunately, are again many. Moreover, the new 2019 started with a scandal. Wasted time. The past year is lost political time for Bulgaria. We have heard the main political power, the government says: the country has outstanding achievements: economic growth, record low unemployment, increase in incomes, budget with the highest incomes and costs for the whole transition. And these are arguments that they should continue to rule the country in the same way. However, the careful, real analysis of these facts shows a completely different picture of another lost year for Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens. Economic growth is within 3.5% of the EU to catch up with even the countries of our group in the European Union. Such growth condemns the next generation of Bulgarian citizens, not only the current ones, to remain the poorest in Europe. Of the three growth factors, investments, exports and consumption work mainly the latter. Investments as a factor generating sustainable growth are practically absent. There is also a record of the decline in foreign direct investment, and this is due to a lack of adequate state policy. In 2018, the biggest investor in the country are Bulgarian citizens who work abroad. They feed the consumption with the money they send here. Bulgaria is becoming an exporter of labor. Young people are forced to go abroad because another year has passed without reforming education. Reforms that could be made for business. Reforms to stop the search for livelihoods abroad. Consumption-based growth without investment, without increasing employment, has always given the same economic effect to inflation. It is already a fact in Bulgaria. In 2019, at its high levels, the increase in income will be meaningless. Bulgaria needs an accelerated catch-up program. Bulgaria's strategic priority is the accelerated, catching up development compared to the European Union's average standard. We must have three times faster growth compared to the average increase in gross product per capita in order not to be the country for another generation of the poorest country in the European Union. The lack of reforms makes the increased costs in key social areas meaningless. Water continues to be poured into a bottomless landing. The examples are many. One of the health care guys. These larger spending without reforms will not make better services for citizens. In 2019, the policy of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will be to seek dialogue and consensus on priorities and the Development Programme. And, of course, a new management model. An hour should be soon to find a solution to the important issues for the Bulgarian citizens. Important questions stand to be resolved and these issues will not be solved by themselves or by the street. They are waiting for a serious expert and political discussion. They stand to be resolved by this parliament. This Parliament must reach consensus on the vision of an accelerated and catching up development of the country in order to ensure peace and democracy in order to reaffirm European values in order to create conditions for economic growth, for the well-being of the whole society. We all have to do this. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and urged the national responsible parties to turn 2019 into a year of finding and reaching consensus on the political and economic priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria to determine the way for development of the country, and Bulgaria to contribute to the revival of the European idea and to the creation of a more united and more prosperous European Union with the active role of Bulgaria. It's the responsibility of each and every one of us. We owe it to Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens. We can thus also be useful to Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Next is the last statement by the Chairman of the Party Group Mr. Veselin Mareshki. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, for many years, alive and well for you, all Bulgarian citizens! God willing with your work in 2019 to make the life of all Bulgarians happier, more prosperous, happier, healthier, more smiling! That's the point of our presence here. We have been happy with the fact that we have not been present in this Parliament before. When we are outside, we may miss a statement, however, when we are here on duty, we must hear them and see this cynicism, this duplicity, this catharsis, which some now, in an attempt to trick the Bulgarian people again, are experiencing at the moment. I have nothing to say, because what I should have said before me said Cornelia Ninova from BSP, partly and Mr. Volen Siderov. But do they, who are part of this transition, have the right to ask these questions? They are the right questions, but that is why we are here to ask them against those who created this transition, against those who made this transition, against those who created this poor and corrupt state. How come people who were part of this transition, people who were involved in criminal privatization, people who were involved in the robbery, now with what eyes are asking questions? If you've been as sincere as you are, to say so because you didn't say it, should I say it, is it true that you, for example, lobby for the fighters? Is that why you supported the spending, this robbery of several billion Bulgarian money, which instead of health and education, which I see that your former vice-president of the BSP speaks, repeats our words yes, if they go to the Grippen is good, but because they chose the better plane F-16, this is no longer good and you are reliving some catharsis and you are against it? [[General applause from GERB.]] Let us be consistent in our actions and not try to deceive our constituents. To Mr. Siderov, you said: we are to point out to the government the right actions. Mr. Siderov, you and Mr. Karakachanov and Valeri Simeonov are the government. We and the other opposition parties can show and give some ideas about correctives. You have to work. We understand that you have not understood for two years that you are part of the government. You never imagined you'd be in any government. And that's why you're moving on. Yesterday I hear Karakachanov: I won't let them beat the military! "They beat the military like a dog at a time when he is a minister, and he comes out brazenly and announces that he will not allow such a thing?! To end with Mr. Siderov, because he said: I have a lot of experience, I want to share it with you, I am ready to share it with you... Which attempt, Mr. Siderov? That you embraced Mr. Barekov, who in the European Parliament supported the Istanbul Convention by courageously voting with your coalition partner Jambazki and Barekov, who did not oppose the Istanbul Convention in the European Parliament, shyly voting, abstentioned by abstention, and not opposed in any way precisely to these family values for which you will now come out the greatest propaganda? From this experience we do not want. We are ready to draw from every positive experience, regardless of which side of the hall and outside the hall comes, but a positive experience to show not even catch-up, but a forwarding development. [[Radio.]] Preemptive! Temps with which income, education, because without education there is no health care, there is no national security, there is nothing! Most of us studied at a time when there was order in schools. Some have taken advantage of it, learned, developed the state. [[DPS lines: "Nostalgia! "]] We got her so nostalgic. What's stopping us from creating such a state now, modern, educated, 7 million people? 2019 will be a sign for Bulgaria and the whole of Europe. It will become clear whether the European Union, in which we have been a member for 12 years, will fall apart or will continue to exist, but in a completely different way. We all know why it came to this. And here I fully support Mrs. Ninova, the weak, dependent leaders, the wrong policies, the expansion of the luxury official army in Brussels, the dictatorship of the Member States, the washing of identity, the threat to the security of European citizens. In a word, nothing to do with what ideologists have dreamed of, the founders of a united Europe. You have created these things as part of the European Parliament with your leader Stanishev, who is the head of the second largest to date faction in the European Parliament? Ever since Volja is in parliament, I have been talking about the need for a radical change in the way this union is led. I am also talking about rethinking Bulgaria's membership in various international organizations. By the way, you saw that the United States and Israel, quite without worrying, came out of UNESCO. So it is not so scary to rethink certain memberships and certain actions. To draw the line on what we have won, not individual politicians and parties, but as a people, as well as to realize what we have missed in these years, can we also contribute to this membership bringing finally a visible change in the standard of living of every Bulgarian citizen, as promised when we entered this structure in 2007. The so-called old elites, mentioned earlier in the Chamber, will be swept away in a few months. The first signs are already present in both France and Britain and Germany, not to mention Italy and Austria. It is everywhere in the upsurge the real patriotic wave, part of which is also the Volya. I absolutely do not accept anyone calling our partners nationalists and populists because you all see the difference very well. There is no way to call populist Mateo Salvini, who in Italy alone does real things to stop migrants' raids on the coasts of Italy. Is Marin Lupin a populist who, as you know, to date has the highest rating in France? If there's an election in France, she's the most likely next president. The Yellow Bonds are not populism, but reality. They are not only a protest, they are a yellow card for the status quo, and not just in France. Such processes will be observed and already observed throughout Europe, because the awakening of the peoples is already a fact. I see, as happened just a moment ago, that some of the people present have started repeating our messages. You have entered into the talk against the current European Union. There's no harm in copying us again. There's no harm in realizing where the world is going, what's right and what's wrong. Only, colleagues, who will believe you in this political catharsis? You yourselves, through your MEPs for years, have supported this same mismanagement of the Union, voted on the insane directives against which you are talking at the moment, declarations and regulations of Brussels, you have fought domestic party battles ahead in the Eurolist to settle with salary and privileges which have not previously been smelled. With what eyes will you now go out to speak to your voters that you already think otherwise, that you have suddenly woken up and looked at how bad the state of the Union is and how wrong were the decisions for the people? Did the Bulgarian pensioner get rich thanks to your MEPs? And did he go around the world, as pensioners from other European countries do? Did the Bulgarian teacher get rich thanks to the dozens of funds and programs that someone constantly absorbs? Do people feel safer in their homes? Do doctors have European conditions to stay here? Are more children born? These questions are really important, but only we of the Volya are allowed to ask them right now. Everyone else had the opportunity to realize them before we came along. [[Radio, lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] Who and what responsibility will it take for all of this? Yes, the people will ask, I will not ask: who will bear the responsibility? I hope you don't think I'm responsible for these things, do you? And after that question, I hope you'll listen a little more politely, keep quiet, because you're part of the responsibility. That's why the change is on the door. There is no need for a person to have any special qualities to see that in this union so no longer can. People want justice and security, a better life, strong leaders and strong nations who have preserved their dignity and the right to decide how to develop. So don't be surprised if in the campaign for the European elections people don't ask you: what do you promise us this time, and why have the former MEPs been silent for so many years in Brussels and whose interests have they defended there? The dictation of Brussels officials and especially their puppeteers ends. Perhaps many of them, in order to survive, will repaint themselves overnight, will become hot supporters of Russia, will talk about lifting sanctions, will condemn corruption in EU funds, will suddenly talk about Merkel's mistake with migrants, a mistake paid for and with human lives. I do not know how many of the old faces will be able to escape the public lynx, but the truth is that if there is a European Union, it will have to be quite another. And this dramatic change is to be seen in Europe very soon. We from Volja do not want to be passive viewers, but active participants in the transformation of the Union, because in these turbulent times Bulgaria gets a new chance, and perhaps the last, to gain influence and to protect the Bulgarian people and the national interest in the best way. In this environment we will mark 30 years from the beginning of the so-called democratic changes in Bulgaria. My generation then was about 20 years old and we sincerely believed that in just a few years our country would become Switzerland in the Balkans, as many politicians then promised. We believed, we dreamed, we worked hard. We have experienced the experiments of the socialist governments - Lukanovi and Videnov winters, total collapse of leva, plundering and destruction of enterprises, legends about the briefcases with money, about the pine trees, racketeering to business, growing corruption. However, we chose to stay, hoping that indeed one day the country would become a normal European country. Today, however, it is not only young people who leave, who are experienced experts at the age of 40. What's the score for 30 years? Bulgaria is the poorest country in the European Union with the highest corruption! As our people say, the knife is to the bone. Either from now on, we will be working at a rapid pace for a tangible, not symbolic improvement of the standard of living of every Bulgarian citizen, or we must prepare the European wave of discontent to flood our country as well. The processes are irreversible, and if anyone thinks it's an isolated island here, it's very false. We from Volja................................ to make an action plan for the months until the European elections, in which to prioritise: increase people's incomes, support for small and medium-sized businesses, emergency measures to overcome the demographic crisis through special programmes for young educated families, a real effective change of the health system, and, last but not least, improving the status of the Bulgarian teacher. Patriotism is true patriotism, not pseudopatriotism, not united, but Bulgarian patriotism in this case... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u13	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u14	...will be the new ideology, the strongest basis for policy making in these years and years to come. That is why in May, it will be extremely important what people Bulgaria will send to Brussels, whether cowardly and silent obedients, not daring to oppose the mockery of true family values, supporting the Istanbul Convention, or brave and worthy Bulgarians? The same way will be done with the elections for mayors in the fall. Colleagues, education, health care, economy, culture, security These are the five key conditions which, according to Volja....are extremely important in order to survive as a state and as a people. In these times of great change, we must prepare ourselves well. If you realize that as MPs you have in your hands all the power tools, there is no obstacle to doing so. If not, then the people will find a way to give this opportunity to those like us from the Will, who not only have the will, but also know how. That is why during this session, the Parliamentary Group of Volja will continue to be different because we are well aware of our duty to the people. Finally, I want to wish you wisdom and patriotism, and to our people to be irreconcilable and to require much more than the people he has voted to trust to make decisions about his fate. Successful year of all, but successful in their work for the benefit of the Bulgarian people and state! Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON LIFE. The report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u16	Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I ask first of all to make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Assoc.Professor Dr. Janko Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, and Mrs. Silvia Vasileva, Director of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u18	Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting on the proposal for admission in this House. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. We're listening, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u19	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 802-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 20 December 2018, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Assoc.Professor Dr. Janko Ivanov Deputy Minister, and Silvia Vasileva Director of the Directorate of Life Economy; from the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock production: Georgi Yordanov Executive Director. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanov, who pointed out that the changes aim to bring the Law into line with the current European legislation and to refine some of the texts. The main changes are related to obtaining authorisation to carry out breeding activities which are issued to recognised breeding organisations with approved breeding programmes. The conditions and arrangements for the recognition of the breeding organisation and for the approval of the breeding programme are revised. For this purpose, a common application will be submitted to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Some of the official certification documents will now be checked by official means. The Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming shall carry out a preliminary on-the-spot verification of the circumstances declared in the application. A month shall extend the period within which a committee formed for that purpose should examine the documents submitted. Details are given where the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry may refuse to approve the breeding programme and respectively issue an authorisation to carry out breeding activities. The possibility of limiting the scope of the authorisation to carry out breeding activities as well as a procedure for the modification of an already approved breeding programme has been laid down. In addition to zooengineers, it is also intended that researchers, specialists in the species concerned, be involved in the development of breeding programmes. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will keep a public list of breeding authorisations issued. The next group of changes is related to the clarification of the functions and powers of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming. The Agency should reflect the breed and breeding status of animals under selective control in the Integrated Information System of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The Agency is intended to establish and maintain a database of the origin of male breeding animals of local (autochton) breeds. The Agency will publish information on the results of the control of the biological, business and productive signs of selection, as well as on the value of the animals controlled by them. It shall be possible for the Agency to issue acts establishing administrative infringements identified in carrying out the checks on the activities of breeding organisations. The requirements for the education of the birds' seed producers are alleviated. The name and composition of the National Council shall be changed to the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock, which will now be called the National Council on Genetic Resources, and in addition to the Chairs of breeding organisations and zoo-engineers, members of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock production, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, as well as scientists from the Agricultural Academy and higher schools of the respective field. New administrative criminal provisions are provided for in respect of the carrying out of the breeding activity. The additional provisions specify some of the legal definitions of concepts. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and expressed support for the bill. The Law demanded that texts be written to regulate the relations between farmers and breeding organisations and their rights and obligations. They recommended the status of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming as a competent control body to be explicitly recorded in the Law. From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and asked: why do the Law eliminate the minimum criteria to be met by a breed in order to be identified as threatened with extinction? The Ministry explained that the amendments relate to the change of European requirements according to which a competent scientific authority of each country should set the relevant minimum criteria. In this regard, the Ministry has commissioned the Agricultural Academy to develop a methodology for setting these minimum thresholds, which will be presented soon. According to the parliamentary group, the lack of a clear definition and criteria for determining the degree of threat of local (autochtonic) breeds allows for an inconsistent interpretation and therefore improper spending of financial resources. They insisted on increased control over the activities of breeding organisations and a significant increase in the property penalties provided for in the Law, which they believe are too low to provide a disciplinary effect. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has expressed readiness to comply with the comments made. In conclusion, the national representative Desislava Taneva said that the proposals made by the MPs will be discussed and taken into account between the first and second votes of the Bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 21 votes for the European Union, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on livestock production, No 802 01 58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. This was the report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. [[Part of the MPs are talking.]] Please take your seats in the Chamber. We have listened to the Commission report, we are discussing a law, please face the official stand! Quaestors, help me bring order! Thank you. There are no other reports submitted on the bill. We are proceeding with the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u21	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Undoubtedly, the livestock law is important for the industry and the changes proposed are in a direction that will create prerequisites for better control and more efficient governance of the sector. Some of the proposed amendments to the Bill are related to the implementation of European regulations, their adaptation according to the structure and control that takes place in Bulgaria. There are also proposed changes related to the activities of breeding associations in the country. It is a fact that their activities provide a significant financial resource and control is one of the necessary important, mandatory elements of state policy for their activities so that they perform their functions. New sanctions are also provided for, in accordance with the requirements of breed societies, whether they should be of such size, whether they will have the raising effect sought. This is a topic that can also be commented accordingly. We will support the Bill in the main directions and motives that are set out and the changes given to it, but between first and second reading we will have proposals and they are related to some, in my opinion, strange or exotic proposals. For example, one of the proposals, which was also highlighted in the Report, that endangered breeds will be determined what they are, what their size could be with a methodology. I do not like methodologies when it comes to European funds and when there are no precise quantitative parameters. Moreover, for all other disappearing breeds, conventional breeds, we have precisely defined quantitative indicators and therefore it seems to me that blurring this concept will lead to serious problems in implementation and funding with European funds. It is also a little puzzling why the created DNA laboratory for genetic resources, which is an achievement for the administration and an opportunity to carry out the control that is needed, will be or is directed only for these disappearing breeds, but not for absolutely everyone, so that selection can be guaranteed in the country as a whole and that the national genofund can be maintained. But this will be between first and second readings, with our proposals that we believe will be summarized and there will be an opportunity to improve the bill in the part related to breeding activity in the country, as well as the control functions of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u22	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, as Professor Bachvarova said, an important Bill, as feeding the nation is of extreme importance and paramount importance, as we know in recent years what food the Bulgarian people consume. I'm going to give an example in historical terms. From 1983 to 1989 Bulgaria was fed meat in a live and processed state at 100%. Unfortunately, however, today I will give an example in the sector of swine farming, we import more than 100 thousand. tonnes of annual meat. That is to say, the Law is important because through it we can improve the business sector. And what lies ahead in the coming years, with the adoption of the new common agricultural policy, you know, from 2021 to 2027 as a country for the first time, we are given the right through the so-called national strategic plans to have our own policy. So once again, I stress: the Law is important and the changes are even late. It is a good thing that, along with the European directives, we are also making some changes. Here we have to say that by strengthening the role of the Agency, it is given the right to have greater control over the activities of breeding organisations. At first reading, we were not presented with a report and analysis of the financial resources. Like Professor Bachvarova said that a lot of financial resources are distributed both national and European, so to speak, to these breeding organizations and we do not have such analysis, a report to see their activities. With the changes being made now, I'm sure some things will come to light. Next, one of the good proposals in this bill, which, as Professor Bachvarova said, we will support at first reading the strengthening of the role of the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming as a competent control body to be explicitly written in the law. It is extremely important to give more weight to the state body so that the funds that have been spent and distributed to breeding organisations can be more transparent and see the meaning of these actions and activities that they have carried out. The relief of the requirements for education of the production of buben seed must also be reflected as it is important, because, you know, before the changes, the sector was one of the key in small towns and villages. Here is an opportunity in this way to develop and give impetus, development, work and livelihood in the villages, and hence the development of the demographic crisis, so that this scourge for the Bulgarian population can be improved. Last but not least, once again, I would like to say that monitoring the activities of breeding organisations is extremely important. I hope between first and second readings with our proposals that the Law will be improved and that we will adopt this important for the business sector. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Rumen Georgiev? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? There are no requests for other speeches. I close the debate on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Animal Health, No 802 01 58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2018. There's a vote coming up. Please invite the Quaestors from the couloirs to take their seats in the hall. Dear Members of Parliament, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on livestock production, No 802-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2018. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. With this in the first vote was adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on livestock production, No 802-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for a break of 30 minutes. We will continue the session with parliamentary control at 11.10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u25	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we begin the first: PARLIAMENT CONTROL FOR 2019 Mr. Tomislav Donchev will be the first to respond to the Deputy Prime Minister. He will answer a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova about the government's policy to deal with the complex epizootic situation in the country. Who's gonna ask the question? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the problems with animal diseases peaked in 2018. I will not list the animal diseases that affected the country and, above all, farmers, but the losses are enormous. I will not list them because the list is long and covers almost the entire state preventive programme for 2019. Just to remind you that the benefits for avian influenza within two years are over 16 million. BGN, and for the sheep plague, the values reached 3.5 million. However, small ruminants plague has affected not only settlements with the destruction of farmers' animals, but is still causing problems. It was only yesterday that the European Commission lifted the ban on animal movement and also on selling production. Or, within seven months, farmers did not have the opportunity to develop their holdings and the so-called "missed benefits' which are considered to be covered by State budget funds cannot compensate for the losses that these farmers have. Moreover, within the next two or three years they cannot recover their holdings in any form. Particularly worrying is the situation in the border regions of the country. The measures taken by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency showed a number of shortcomings and weaknesses in animal health. Although there is a state preventive program for prevention, surveillance and control of diseases with a resource of 40 million at the beginning of the year and at the end of 2018. "45 million," coordination in the implementation of the actions of complex epizootic deposits is limited to liquidation only. I am also looking at the African swine fever strategy, which was adopted by the Food Safety Agency in January 2018, and there are two thirds of the measures identified: liquidation, liquidation, liquidation. The question of the lack of a comprehensive government strategy is also increasingly raised, focusing not only on specific short-term measures to deal with diseases, but also to take into account the long-term national interest in the development of the sector. Such a strategy should provide for a system of measures to alleviate and assist the producers concerned to cope with the consequences and recover their holdings. Does the government intend to draw up a comprehensive strategy for prevention and tackling the effects of infectious diseases in the business sector? We are addressing you because your delegated powers include activities related to coordination in complex epizootic settings. Do you think that legislative changes are necessary to improve the effectiveness, transparency and control of the Agency as a whole, all the more so that such changes have been spoken of for at least one year, but they are not a fact at present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u27	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. Next is a response from Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u28	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, dear Mr. Vigenin! In my opinion, there would be low added value for me to read, to list all the measures that have been taken last year, or, in particular, for two years, in the event of crises of different types of disease. I can comment on it in detail on both avian influenza and African swine fever and small ruminants. What I can say is that the actions of the Bulgarian veterinary authorities were adequate and in spite of some of the cases of the major scale of the crisis, they have led to the management of the consequences. The focus of your question is on whether another type of settlement of commitments, actions, behaviour of the responsible institutions is necessary precisely through the development of a targeted strategy. I guess you know better than I do, as far as I'm not a veterinarian, you have a closer attitude to the field of agriculture, that the whole process is not moving, is not organized at improvisation level, it's planned with a whole cascade of documents, including being very clearly legally funded through the Veterinary Activity Act. We have plans, some of them more general, some of them, such as the contingent plans, they are very specific, they are at management level, 22 plans to combat different types of diseases. We also have strategies at European level with simple principles. Personally, I'm skeptical of producing new and new strategies. I don't know if you know the number of strategies we have at national level. Their number is over 160! If you say that a country has 160 strategies, that probably means that there is no clear strategic focus on what it is doing. For the same reason, there is a parallel initiative that will soon be of your attention. I have a strong intention to reduce them. But on the subject. Whether to be a principled plan, whether to be a strategy is not the main topic. My proposal is to organise a professional discussion with representatives of the regional institutions, of the Ministry of Agriculture, of BABBH, of specialists we have in other departments, where, including with the participation of the MPs who have a commitment on the subject, the best decision to be made. I would not object in principle, starting from scratch, to see how the process is organised and whether there are measures that could otherwise be organised at planner or strategic document level. I do not agree with you that the actions taken and reflected in the respective plans, the respective internal instructions, include only the killing of animals. I can even remind you that when we comment on African swine fever, a crisis also from the past year, you will find that a huge part of the measures are precisely at the level of prevention and prevention, including through restrictive events, including by building a fence. The measures are similar with regard to other types of diseases. If we make analogies with other sectors, I personally welcome the approach where more efforts, even more funds, are put at the level of prevention and prevention. This automatically leads, if the actions are well organised, to less costs and less damage in preventing the consequences. We all know what the natural prerequisites are. Due to the geographical situation of the country, the risks are enormous because of our common border with the Republic of Turkey and because of the migratory flows of birds we have natural prerequisites and risks to be affected by such diseases. Hardly anyone in this room, whether he is a specialist or not, would dispute the need to organise the processes in the best way. If there is such a view, if there are such specific proposals, let us organise a targeted debate in the press committee in the National Assembly with the participation of the executive institutions, external experts and to make the best decision. I personally express support for such an approach.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Who's gonna ask the supplementary questions? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u30	Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! I cannot agree with you that the portfolio Agriculture Commission will be the one to initiate changes related to the resolution of the complex epizootic situation in the country which began in 2018. This is the worst year in the country in an episootic way, which means that extreme measures must be taken. In accordance with art. 127 of the Animal Health Act has created a crisis headquarters. Eight ministries are involved in this crisis headquarters. Since 2005, for the first time in September, as a result of the huge noise that occurred with regard to the plague in small ruminants was collected. And then, respectively, in the swine plague, where measures were to be taken. So in the Law are written rules, but they are not implemented. I would like to note that our country has been a member of the World Organisation for Animal Health since 1924 and there are rules. It is written in the International Veterinary Code that a basic principle and philosophy is: prevention and combating infectious diseases is a state policy primarily and is carried out through legislative, executive and judicial authorities. You have left the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to cope completely alone, believing that some funds, if provided or the benefits are paid in time, the diseases will stop. This isn't working anymore! There's a Risk Assessment Center. Why does no one turn to this centre and read the reports that say: there should be prediction of diseases and prevention at an earlier stage than when this disease already occurs? Out of 28 districts in the country, the question was: what are we doing in border areas? Bulgaria has always been in this place, but has never been in such a severe epizootic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u31	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u32	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I am afraid that despite all my efforts to be well-intentioned and to have a meaningful conversation in which to produce something that we are deviating from the main topic of the issue, insofar as it was: whether a new settlement of the organization and relations is necessary by developing a strategy which, in my first response, I think I have said what my position is. Now we are doing a secondary, and I would say a speculative analysis of everything that happened the previous year, which was undoubtedly severe. Again, I say that the actions of the responsible institutions, mainly of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, were adequate. There's proof of that. These actions have been checked more than once by whom, including the European Commission, which has repeatedly come up with positive assessments and support for what the Bulgarian competent authorities have done. In addition, let me add that you are not correct in finding that the Agency was left to react on its own. The entire Ministry of Agriculture, all the other services involved in the issue of police, border police, were also in support of all the actions undertaken. On the occasion of your comment that it is not the job of the parliamentary committee to develop such a strategy, I absolutely agree, but given the interest you have on the subject, in a mode of maximum openness, kindness, respecting the country's legislative authority, I have proposed such a meeting. Of course, a similar review and professional discussion about whether a new strategy is needed could also happen outside the National Assembly without its participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u33	Thank you. You have the opportunity to express your attitude, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I did not expect you to give an answer to which we can say that we are grateful and that it may cause some further meaningful steps. I would like to emphasise that we are asking the question to you as Deputy Prime Minister, as the President of the National Assembly returned the question that was addressed to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Why the Prime Minister? Because we're tired of asking questions to the Minister of Agriculture, to answer them in general and then nothing happens. It is obvious that the Minister of Agriculture is not able to control or direct the Ministry of Agriculture is perhaps not the most accurate word, but at least to direct the activities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, and as a result it turns out that we are asking questions to the Minister, but the Director of BABM is appointed by the Prime Minister. And when we talk about government policy, who's supposed to respond to us? In this situation, it should be the Prime Minister, but you as Deputy Prime Minister who is monitoring this portfolio, we expected you to say something more about this topic. It didn't work out. I would like to draw attention to two facts. Firstly, strategies are developed by the executive. We in Parliament could discuss such a strategy if it was proposed. We will be happy to join a wider circle, but we expect this to be done by the executive and without denying the facts, to realize that the results of last year do not speak well about the prevention and management of infectious animal diseases. Secondly, you were saying that the actions of BABBH are adequate. I mean, the right word is far from the right word. Perhaps in some elements, yes, but from this tribune I would like to ask once again that the order for the deletion of Ana Petrova's establishment from Bolyarovo be revoked, the order for the slaughter of her flock from July last year should be revoked. There are many reasons, of course, but one of them is, for example, this is the sheep that was the outbreak in Bulgaria. [[shows photo]] That's why the sanctions were introduced. This sheep gave birth to two lambs a few days ago. There are already 20 lambs in Ana Petrova's flock and at the same time no dead animals in those 6 months. You want to crush this woman. Not you personally, but I still urge you to take the same approach to it as to the new cases of infection that were detected in October. And I recall now the commitment of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to propose complex measures in such crises, as the compensations that have been given to the owners are not getting anywhere, they continue to experience immense difficulties and are abandoned entirely by power at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u35	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Allow me to thank Mr. Tomislav Donchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Allow me, before we proceed to the next answers, to give the written answers. The first is from Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question of the MP Georgi Gokov. Written answers and by: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Kalin Vassilev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. We continue to answer the oral questions. Next, a question to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. The first question is from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov about the funds under the Programme "Environment" for the clean air in Ruse. Here you are, dear Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u36	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, on 6 December 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water announced municipalities that will receive more than 111 million. lv. in connection with improving the quality of the ambient air. The money is under Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "2020." Unfortunately, the municipality of Ruse is not among these municipalities. You are aware of the severe situation with the air condition in Ruse, and we too, and this is a serious problem that has caused a serious situation in Ruse region. This is not the first question we ask, but we only get empty promises and no concrete actions. The contaminated air in Ruse is indeed a prerequisite for quite serious diseases, for poor quality of life for our fellow citizens. In this regard, our questions to you are: did Ruse Municipality apply for the procedure mentioned and if she applied, when is the last application; what are the criteria and conditions for determining these six cities and why Ruse is not among them; is there another possibility that Ruse Municipality will apply for targeted means to improve the quality of the air? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Come in for an answer, Dear Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Zarkov, Stoilov and Milkov, in fact on 5 December 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water announced a procedure for improving the quality of the air. Ruse Municipality has not applied for this procedure and is not expected to submit a project proposal, as it is not eligible candidate specific to this issue. The eligible beneficiaries are defined on the basis of an assessment carried out under six criteria, three criteria are for eligibility and three criteria are for quality. The eligibility criteria are: available current, which means currently active and approved by the municipal council, municipal air quality programme. In the programme, domestic heating shall be identified as the primary source of pollution; in the programme, provision shall be made for measures to replace stationary inefficient solid fuel heating devices. The quality criteria are: First, the total number of excesses of the average annual and mid-day PM levels for the period 2011-2017 exceed the average calculated for all 25 municipalities with abnormal ambient air quality. Secondly, the proportion of the affected population in the municipality concerned to exceed the average for all 25 municipalities. Thirdly, the municipal air quality programme should lay down regulatory measures. The eligible candidates under the procedure are seven municipalities which meet both the three eligibility criteria and the three quality criteria at the same time. Ruse Municipality does not meet two of the criteria. Firstly, it does not meet the eligibility criterion for the presence in the municipal programme of solid fuel stove replacement measures, as well as the quality criterion for regulatory measures set out in the programme. In the process of implementation of the projects under the programme referred to it, it is possible to generate savings that will enable other municipalities with impaired air quality with funds under Operational Programme 2014 Taking into account the importance of the problem of air quality, the Ministry of Environment and Water is betting this topic as one of the leaders during the negotiations for the next programming period. In addition, you asked: are there other sources? Yes, there are other sources. By the way, there are municipalities that have already used the LIFE Programme, which is a very serious tool to apply. I don't know if Ruse Municipality is one of them, but this is just one of the tools. The DESIRE program is another tool that I can point to. So, in practice, the Operational Programme is not the only source of funding when we talk about air pollution, and not just air pollution. It is a matter of activity and of local authorities to seek alternative sources of funding, insofar as the Operational Programme only supports this process. And one more piece of information in addition. We had very long talks, almost six months went on, with the European Commission, which we can view as a donor of these funds on the criteria that need to be laid down, and on whether all 25 municipalities should be financed or just a few. After all, it was necessary to understand that, in order to be able to produce maximum results, we now need to focus on certain municipalities that will serve as a model for proving funding for the other municipalities in the next programming period. Both approaches had their reasonable arguments, but this was what the Monitoring Committee also adopted as a final outcome for measures. I hope that the seven municipalities that will be financed in this programming period will be sufficient grounds to protect a better financial resource for the next programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u39	Thank you, Minister Dimov. Here you are, you have the opportunity to reply. Mr. Milkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u40	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! First, I take this opportunity to congratulate you with the New Year, to wish you well and to get well quickly! To all my colleagues, a useful job! Mr. Minister, our question is caused by the fact that the reaction in the city was acute of both the citizens and the media that Ruse is not on the list of approved cities. Your response was useful insofar as it made it clear with regard to eligibility criteria and the rest after that the quality criteria. I hope that your response will become a prerequisite for optimizing our atmospheric air quality programme, if necessary, in order to obtain funds under the Operational Programme, because information leaked in our media that the decision will be challenged before the court. We have no information as to whether the municipality has already challenged it. To a large extent, I think your response has made it clear that we have more work to do in Ruse regarding the municipal programme. However, every opportunity should be used when you are in need and citizens breathe dirty air. Such an opportunity represented these funds. I hope that the other two options that you have said to the LIFE and DESIRE programmes will also be used optimally and that the administration of the Ministry will provide... After all, this is the essence of my message to you: come on, Ruse is a large municipality, there is an administrative resource, but when a municipality has such a serious problem with air quality or other problems, I think the Ministry itself should help when there is such a discrepancy in the criteria to get the money right to the needy. We see each other on this issue all the time, and this is not something self-inflicted, but precisely because the problem in Ruse is very sharp. And I invite you, when there are such opportunities and municipalities are not correct, to receive methodical support from the administration of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Here's a line for you, Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. This problem is not just a problem for Ruse. It is a problem of all these 25 cities, and probably not just for them, and to some extent the activity that the local authorities have, we have spoken under the Air Act that we have been looking at here, has different responsibilities and different levels. The main one has still fallen and continues to fall on the local authorities. These programs are accepted by the municipal councils and what we have been struggling for, and I think that, after all, together with the help of all the MPs who were involved, we found a good solution in the already adopted and published Air Act to seek concrete results. Perhaps this will be a crucial moment to have a program that offers something, but has results. I think that what, together with all of you, we have been able to achieve with a very broad consensus, for which I would like to thank all the Members of the National Assembly to move towards results, will be in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u43	Thank you. There is a question from the National Representative Andrian Raykov on the construction of a regional waste management system. Here you are, dear Mr. Rykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the construction of the regional waste management system, covering the municipalities in Ruse District, started with funds from the Operational Programme "Environment" and continued with funding from the Enterprise for environmental management activities. Given the importance of the project for our region and the high expectations of the local population, would you inform us at what stage the implementation of the project is; what time do you expect the construction activities to be completed and the final adoption of the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. Here you are, Minister, to answer the questions asked. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Raykov, the construction of the regional system in Byala includes the municipalities of Byala, Polski Trambesh, Borovo, Two mounds, Tsenovo and Opaka and is among the priorities of our country in order to provide all the necessary infrastructure for the treatment of municipal waste. At present, 51 regional systems across the country, which meet the regulatory requirements, have been put into operation. In the process is the construction of the other three regional systems in which it is also in Byala. Its construction started, as you pointed out, with funding under the Operational Programme 2007-2013 but until the eligibility period of the activities, which is November 2015, only 8% of the grant contract has been implemented due to a continuing appeal against the contract announced by the municipality of Byala for the choice of contractor for the design and construction of the regional system. This is the reason why the project is declared dysfunctional and should be completed with national funds by 31 March 2019. Its implementation is subject to strict monitoring by the European Commission. In the event that the deadline is not met, costs of more than 5 million. BGN, paid by Operational Programme 2007 - 2013 must be returned by the Regional Association of the European Commission. In order to avoid suspension of the construction process and to provide funding for the completion of the regional system in March 2017, the municipality of Byala submitted an application to the Environmental Management Company for grant financial assistance for the implementation of Project On 26 June 2017, funding up to 2,96 million was approved. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty In order to organise all necessary funding on 6 November 2018, the Management Board of the Environmental Protection Activities Organisation approved funds up to 4.8 million. lv. for the implementation of the third and final stage of the project. A contract was concluded on 20 December for the granting of an interest-free loan to provide means for the delivery of a vehicle for the transport of containers - part of the mobile operating equipment included in the project, amounting to 252 thousand. BGN, as such equipment is not eligible to be a grant. It's only admissible as an interest-free loan. The Ministry of Environment and Water is constantly supporting Byala Municipality and municipalities in the region in order to complete the construction works and implement the regional exploitation system within the deadline set by the European Commission. Currently the depot, the administrative building and most of the bringing infrastructure are built. The separation and composting plants are executed and the equipment is installed in them. The construction of part of the bringing infrastructure is to be completed. Byala Municipality has declared its assurance that the construction works will be carried out before 31 March 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u47	Thank you, Minister Dimov. Mr. Rykoff, you don't want a line, so there won't be a double. Allow me to thank Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer first a question from the MP Petar Vitanov about an annual defence review. Mr. Vitanov, we are waiting for you in the stands, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! On 22 June 2017, the leaders of the European Union agreed to launch the so-called "Constantly structured cooperation" in order to strengthen Europe's security and security. On 11 December 2017, the Council adopted a Decision establishing PESCO or PESCO involving almost all Member States of the European Union, with the exception of Denmark, Malta and the United Kingdom. The participating countries have agreed on an initial list of 17 projects. On 19 November 2018, the Council adopted a second series of 17 more projects. The mechanism of functioning of the Permanent Structured Cooperation shall include a coordinated annual defence review of the Member States, which shall aim to provide a better overview of defence expenditure, national investment and research efforts. Therefore, my question, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is: what are the results of the annual defence review on the PESCO mechanism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Karakachanov, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u50	Dear Madam President, Mr. Vitanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me first point out that today is 111 years since the creation of Bulgarian military intelligence. Allow me from the National Assembly stands to congratulate all employees of the Military Information Service who, in today's difficult conditions, continue to fulfil their duties and collect, analyse and provide state and military leadership with the necessary information to make adequate political decisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u51	The ones who worked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u52	I said "111 years," I didn't say "23." Dear Mr. Vitanov, the coordinated annual defence review is a separate process related to building capabilities within the framework of the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy. It is not part of the initiative for permanent cooperation in the field of defence. It is developed by voluntary contribution of those wishing to participate in it countries of the European Union. The review will be a cyclical two-year process, coordinated and synchronized with similar processes in NATO. It will be managed by the defence ministers of the member states who will adopt a report on its development. The European Defence Agency will play a key role in carrying out it together with the European Military Action Service and the Military Secretariat of the European Union. The work on the review is envisaged to take place with the participation of the European Commission in the context of the implementation of the European Defence Action Plan. The trial cycle of coordination of an annual defence review was launched in autumn 2017. It took place within one year, aiming to support the development of capabilities, deepen defence cooperation and ensure more optimal use of defence budgets. In September last year, the first Summary Report on the results and conclusions of the process was released. It was subsequently adopted by the Defence Ministers during the Agency's steering board in November 2018. The more important preliminary conclusions that were drawn in the review test cycle report were the following: bilateral discussions with Member States are extremely useful to clarify the objectives of the review and the data needed to provide them; some of the Member States are not able to share their financial data for 2018 and beyond, so difficulties must be overcome with this process, which is working on the methodology for carrying out the review and the way data are reported. The report makes recommendations in two directions. With regard to defence spending, countries should aim for growth of defence budgets until two percent of gross domestic product is reached, with 20% of these costs being capital expenditure and 2% for research and technology. It is focused on the need to spend these funds on modern projects and initiatives within the framework of recently launched initiatives, such as permanent structured cooperation and the European Defence Fund. With regard to capacity development, the recommendation is that countries work to synchronise their national plans by implementing priorities defined by the European Union and its capacity development plan. The report also outlines the future work of the coordinated annual defence review. The availability of information on the plans and capabilities of each Member State participating in the review will help to identify those areas where they work together to build the capabilities needed for the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u53	Thank you. Mr. Vitanov, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, I admit that I was rather impressed by your reply that general recommendations were made in the way of the annual review, and there were no clear results for this review, which was made in Bulgaria, or at least I was not able to navigate in it. It is undoubtedly important because, on the one hand, increases the transparency and political visibility of national and European defence capabilities. The benefits in themselves include both better identification of shortcomings and deepening of defence cooperation, a better and more coherent approach to defence spending planning. As we have also mentioned the Permanent Structured Cooperation, because the coordinated defence review is part of the Common Defence and Security Policy, we also have an annual review and update of the implementation plans with regard to PESCO. If you have information, now you can answer the tet-a-thete: how have we updated our plans? If you have the chance, I'd appreciate it. This is important, on the other hand, because PESCO also provides for a mechanism to exclude something that has no analogue in all other forms of collective defence and a common defence and security policy. It is important that the Bulgarian state does not allow Bulgaria to fall into the hypothesis of this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come on in, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Vitanov, you're extremely right. The subject is extremely extensive. This isn't about talking tet-a-tet. I'm ready for one, of course. Since the time under the oral response procedure is short, I suggest that you, if you wish, transform this question into writing in order to be able to more detailed, answer more pages so that you can be informed as fully as possible. Within three minutes, there is no way for all of this to be said and explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u57	Thank you. The following is a question from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov concerning the provision of reliable security of arms and ammunition warehouses subordinate to the brigade "Logistics." Here you are, dear Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u58	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! On 2 November this year, the last contract under a public contract held in 2017 was signed, called the conclusion of a Framework Agreement for the Protection of Military Estates and Military Formations of the Joint Force Command, in five positions. The last contract was for security of military properties, notice, with ammunition and armaments. The company was quickly introduced, which had won the event in 12 military formations of the brigade "Logistics." Since then, I have received numerous facts that security is not carried out in relation to the contract. In many places she is not at all armed guards, for which there are specific examples. In addition, the quality of the service is very low, although the Ministry of Defence in 2013 had a very different position in the security of these military formations, in which huge quantities of ammunition are stored. It is then claimed that the low payment of the service is a minimum wage, hindering the recruitment of reliable employees with the necessary qualities and attitudes. On the other hand, it discourages employees to exercise diligence, initiative and responsibility in carrying out their functional duties. This is in response to colleague Radev from GERB's group answer on this same question. My questions to you are: do you believe that assigning the security of military sites to private companies will allow military commanders to carry out their rights and duties in the security of the sites? I supplement: do you know of cases in which the commanders of these units were obliged to separate from the other personnel for the security of the unit to do so despite the service of the private company? Do you not find that the price proposals under this contract are camouflage and conceal a deliberate lowering of the quality of the performance of the security service? The security of military property with ammunition and armaments of business sites does not increase the level of protection of the population living near them. We're talking about huge quantities of material here. With what measures will the Ministry of Defense guarantee the necessary protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u60	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Nedyalkov, honourable colleagues! You're extremely right. Everything you say is exactly like that. I will answer your question as a matter of fact. According to the provisions of art. 60 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Joint Command of Forces is a legal person of budgetary maintenance who is responsible for the management and maintenance of the property provided to it. In fact, it is the structure that conducts these public procurements, performs them and defines the companies they guard. In accordance with the Public Procurement Act, the Joint Force Command has organised and awarded a public procurement procedure with the subject matter of the Agreement on the Protection of Military Estates of Military Formations by the Joint Command of Forces under the positions. On the occasion of your question, and before that, an inquiry has been sent to the Joint Commander of the Forces, who replied that the reason for the award of a contract for military formations from its composition to commercial companies is the reduction of the cost of the maintenance of staff excluding civilian personnel appointed on an additional schedule of posts for security guards. The letter stresses that security guards carry out security activities only at the places laid down in the technical specification of the contract, with posts and guards, but does not enter the premises of ammunition and weapons. Exercising attempts at robbery and vandalism in such objects are not uncommon. That's what you need to know. The case that you specifically quoted is not only in the Lovech area but also in other places related to this company. It does not only pose a risk to the conservation of the property of the Ministry of Defence, but as you very rightly said................................................................................................................................................... This creates uncertainty and danger to people living nearby from neighboring settlements. What should be done from now on? In this regard, a working group was formed under the authority of the Permanent Secretary of Defence, which has submitted specific proposals for discussion to the forthcoming Defence Council, one of which is for the properties which are not in the management of the Ministry of Defence, but are provided to secondary officers with budgetary resources to the Office and where weapons, ammunition, explosives and articles of art are stored at the expiry of the contracts already concluded for their security or upon the termination of the contract to gradually transfer their security from private companies to the company MOBA Ltd, which is a company of the Ministry of Defence. The so-called "Additional schedules of the posts', the DRDs, are indeed not a solution, as this practice is forbidden to us, and it is indeed a much higher cost that must be incurred if they are hired under the DRDs. As you can see, in order to deal with this situation, which has long been inherited, we are looking for measures that will give a long-term solution to the problem. For the security of such sites can also be engaged "Military police" and also the personnel of the units available at the Joint Force Command. Finally, even before your question with regard to the problems with the company, which you mention, I have submitted a check for the quality performance of the contract concluded by the Joint Force Command Commander with the company "Bat Securities" which resulted in a failure of the contract. From now on, the commander of the Joint Command of the Force has two possible decisions which he must make on his own, I cannot issue an order for him to do so, or to terminate the contract, which I believe is the right decision, or to give a time limit for making the omissions admitted, even though the period that exists under contract has already expired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Ministers, honourable Members! As MP, I welcome the Minister of Defence's efforts in this direction. My opinion, however, is that this should not have been allowed! It should not have been allowed to carry out this public procurement and to award it to a company after a very long delay, only to have no direct guards assigned to the Ministry of Defence, although before that the Ministry had another position. I understand very well that the numbers no longer exist, and that is why other solutions are being sought for the security of these military formations, where too many ammunition and explosive materials are stored. In the spirit in which you spoke, I would like to add two such cases to you. On 3 December 2018, I took the liberty, although it is not my job, to enter the territory of the unit. I was only stopped on my way out. I asked the guy who was in the guard room, "What are you doing there?" He said: Mi, is tai, here I have to sit and play the speckle is his expression, so that the water does not freeze. On December 29th, when the deadline for removing the allowed omissions by the company had already expired, there was a very interesting incident in which two or three boys from the neighboring village went and almost dealt with one of the employees of the company, which is at the same time in the security booth. Bit of a problem. Such a domestic problem that shows that he was alone as a security guard, had only one baton and failed to cope. I am very well aware of the treaty and will welcome any decision of the Joint Force Command to terminate this treaty and to ensure reliable security is one. The second, I would like from now on, the security issues of these units to have wider publicity and publicity. I can personally point out to you, Mr. Minister, dozens of units that formally exist and where there are simply unnecessary guards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u63	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. A hole, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u64	Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues! I would add: after your going there, on December 31st, the verification found that there was only one security guard. Fact! From now on, the concept, the philosophy of guarding our sites, which the Permanent Secretary proposes, is the following.. objects in which there are weapons, explosive materials and so on, to be guarded exclusively by the company MOBA. The other sites, which are devoid of need, are the storage of other property or a building fund, to be entrusted to private companies where there is no danger of incidents involving explosive materials and ammunition. Subjects with ammunition, explosive materials are to be guarded by the Ministry of Defence, the Military Police and personnel in order to secure security. The other sites where there is no danger of such explosive incidents and so on can be provided to private companies, as part of the sites can safely switch to unattainable security, which would reduce a great deal of the costs of the Ministry of Defence, used for objects of minor importance, to use live security of 9, 12 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Nikolay Tsonkov about the requested changes in the minimum national requirements under the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Tsonkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Our question is provoked by the changes that were made in July in the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, which also amended the minimum national requirements reflected in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law and the relevant regulations. Of course, the change of the Law was a positive step, and we all understand that it is in order to increase the levels of quality of education, of the teaching staff, and thus we must respond naturally to competition in European and worldwide, talking about education and high educational standards. On the basis of the changes made, the universities also brought their rules into line with the amendments to the Law on the Development of the Academic Board. All PhD students from now on, as well as habilitation procedures, have started preparing for the new requirements laid down in the Law and in the sub-normative acts. However, there is a doubt that a question which arose 6 months after the introduction of the new minimum national requirements has been established that there is a change in these requirements. Only six months after the new law was passed. You know that the new requirements, which are obviously being prepared from now on, are related to the PhD students, to the habilitations from now on. However, this requires an in-depth analysis. Our question is: what does it require 6 months after the adoption of national requirements to change the Regulation and the regulations again? Secondly: what is your attitude in this regard related to the change of these minimum national requirements so soon and not based on a year or two, in-depth analysis and the results that the new procedures show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u67	Thank you, Professor Tsonkov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u68	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, the amendments to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff were made due to objections and suggestions from scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Sofia University. In essence, the proposed amendments and additions were expressed in the following: the elimination of the number of authors, taking into account the number of publications for a scientist, due to the fact that science in the cited areas is a collective case and the division cannot affect the contribution of each of the scientists to a complex study. Second: moving patent indicators and useful templates to the group D of the E group, while the patent received is assessed as a publication with the highest level of 25 points and the application for a patent or utility model of 15 points; other specific changes in the severity of the individual indicators for those scientific areas reflecting their differences and their coverage in scientific literature, research projects and others. The proposed changes were made in order to create better conditions for objectivity and impartiality in the assessment of scientific production in three of the scientific fields "natural sciences, mathematics and informatics"; technical sciences and health and sport. The Public Discussion of the Project ended on 21 December 2018. On the basis of the comments and proposals received during the discussion, it was pointed out that the revision of the required minimum science indicators for the acquisition of degrees held academic positions is required only in District 4. Natural sciences, mathematics and informatics. In addition, the specifics of the different areas, including the particularities within them, imply the search for the most balanced solution for the different areas. When it comes to such complex, specialized and differentiated matter, however intense discussions were before the adoption of the act, not always for each of the directions, for each of the areas of higher education can be found the most accurate solution. The reason we decided to reopen this topic was one of these proposals, namely that when it comes to research in the field of particle physics, nuclear physics, the teams that work in this area are numerous. Bulgarian scientists who work are part of teams of dozens of scientists. If their scientific output, measured by the number of articles, is to be divided by the number of scientists, this means that they can never acquire a scientific degree of doctor, that is to say an imperfection in these science indicators and a correction is needed specifically in the field of natural sciences. I personally appealed during the public discussion to make a number of discussions with the academic community which showed that the need for changes was mostly in this area of higher education. I hope that this will not bring great uncertainty with regard to the implementation of the Law, on the contrary, we will clear one of the gaps that have been made in the course of the initial discussions and adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, and in particular the Naucometric Indicators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u69	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree that the science indicators should be assessed in relation to the different areas of scientific knowledge and I believe that this has been done in the course of the public discussion of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria. Now I understand that some important things about science have been missed after all. Of course, there is a great difference between the humanities and the exact sciences of physics, chemistry, biology and so on, medicine. Of course, from this point of view, the minimum national requirements must be different both as a degree and as qualitative indicators, and as a number of points precisely because in the exact sciences we have larger collectives. The only concern on our part is that the period within which these minimum national requirements are adopted is very short. Again, change is being made, and this may somewhat have a demotivating effect for young scientists. You know, education is a more conservative system where constant changes are difficult to accept. That is our understanding, and that is why we have put this question on the science indicators. I hope that this change in the next few years will not change any more and the results will be based on an analysis of the procedures that will take place because we know that it takes from six months to several years to protect habilitation work and habilitation work. The results that will show these procedures will be positive and from now on we will be able to build on the changes in the Law for Development of the academic staff of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u71	Thank you, too. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov on the development of the National Children's Environment Complex in Kovachevtsi municipality. You have the floor, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u72	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valchev, my question to you is regarding the National Children's Environment Complex in the village of Kovachevtsi. It was opened on 23 September 1984. The complex is a specialized educational institution for recreation, learning and strengthening the health of children and students of all ages. The complex offers children from all over the country and abroad conditions for school recreation, tourism and sport. It is unique in architectural terms and is located in an ecologically clean area with many attractions, and in recent years the municipality of Kovachevtsi has built many new places for recreation and sport. In 2016, the water and heating system were cut and transmitted to "Secondary raw materials', with the means of making cosmetic repairs to part of the premises. Although it is an extremely convenient and good place for recreation of children and students, with a capacity of over 300 seats, dining room and halls for various activities, the National Children's Environment Complex in Kovachevtsi was last renovated in the distant 2005 - 2006. Unfortunately, after 2009 no money was allocated for repair, with the exception of 140 thousand. BGN after the refugees who were accommodated in it were taken out. Whether the money is spent as intended, it can be seen from the momentary state of the complex The starting and unfinished sports hall needs completion, the rooms, the bathrooms, the dining room, the halls, the heating system, the yard and the facilities in it need repair in order to offer complete relaxation to the children. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures will you take to protect, develop, maintain and promote this unique complex for Bulgaria and how much money will you spend on these activities?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, the National Children's Complex in the village of Kovachevtsi is managed by the Educational Center. This is the name of the State Specialized Service Unit, which is an independent legal entity, a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Education and Science. Its capacity is 300 beds and has a dining room, halls, two outdoor swimming pools. Currently doing its activity seasonally, used mainly in spring and summer. In 2006 the roofs of the buildings in the complex were partially renovated. In the period 2013 - 2015 the building fund of the complex was provided for the accommodation of refugees. For this purpose, the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers financed the repair activities in the complex before the refugees were accommodated, amounting to approximately 115 thousand. lv. Since their removal from the complex in 2015, no major repairs have been carried out. In November 2015, a proposal was made by the mayor of Kovachevtsi Municipality to the Ministry of Education and Science to convert the ownership of the public state property complex into public municipal property. The idea of the mayor of the municipality of Kovachevtsi is to preserve and validate the social function of the complex, and by applying for programs it will be possible to carry out a complete rehabilitation of the National Children's Environment Complex, which includes a hotel corps, a study corps, improvement of the infrastructure, completion of the sports hall. The Ministry of Education and Science has expressed a positive opinion on the possibility of providing the property to the municipality of Kovachevtsi in accordance with the procedure laid down in the State Property Act. It is requested by the mayor of Kovachevtsi municipality to provide a decision to the municipal council for the acquisition of the property, a reasoned opinion from the district governor of Pernik district, an up-to-date sketch and financial justification. Until now, the Ministry of Education and Science has not received the necessary documents. The training centre is financed by state budget funds through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and own revenues. The Director of the Training Centre shall dispose of the budget and shall be responsible for its lawful, appropriate and effective spending. In view of the request of the mayor of Kovachevtsi municipality and the forthcoming procedure for changing the ownership of the National Children's Complex, no major renovation of the base was made and no funds were provided for these activities. If I extend the subject a little, there is also a school of school recreation and sport, in which back in time, historically, the so-called school camps were assigned to the Ministry of Education and Science. At the moment, most, nearly 70%, are not functioning. It is a fact that with the development of a private tourist market, with the inability to maintain in the most efficient way all this large infrastructure, this is also about the large complex, because of the decreased demand also because of the material base, but also because of the development of this market, it is difficult to ensure the necessary attendance in all these camps, complexes and bases, which were once assigned to school recreation and other activities. I have entrusted the Director of the Training Centre to offer me projects and quantitative-valued accounts for maintenance and renewal during this year on the material and technical basis of both this complex and others, which is at the Hawtrebino Centre, as the fact is that their material base needs maintenance and modernisation. Within the framework of the Ministry's investment programme for this year, within the approved budget we will make investments in them. As a long-term concept, in particular with regard to these two complexes, we cannot expect that, given their capacity, they will be effectively filled over time, a large investment that, of course, always has an alternative. To the Ministry of Education and Science we have about two thousand buildings to run through our different units and each expenditure has an alternative... can be directed to any other unit or to any other building. What we should probably do is to develop these complexes thematically and to a greater extent focus on developing extracurricular activities, on implementing different initiatives, but not on relaxing students or tourist activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u76	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Valchev, in the first part of your answer I was worried that you would read what the officials at the Ministry wrote to you. It is delightful that in the second part of your answer you still wish to actually look at the depth of problems such as the one with the Children's Environmental Complex in the village of Kovachevtsi. I did not accidentally turn your attention that this is a unique complex built in the mid-'80s, with a relatively modern base, although it has not been made in recent years. You know, our country in the '80s has invested a lot in these kinds of complexes. I'm glad you have a wish. I hope you'll meet this complex. I'm sure you didn't go to see him, but there have been many Bulgarian children and many children from abroad who until recently had the desire to conduct activities in the children's complex. Unfortunately, the conditions currently do not predispose this type of activity. I am pleased that you are willing to meet the problem at the children's camp and possibly direct funds to improve the material base. I am sure that if funds are directed, the Children's Complex in Kovachevtsi can be a good place for both our, Bulgarian, children and educational activities and extracurricular activities, as well as for children from abroad who have recently visited the Children's Complex in Kovachevtsi. This topic will follow it, I will want formal meetings with you, as well as with my colleagues from the parliamentary group of GERB, to sit down and find the best solution for the Children complex in the village of Kovachevtsi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova concerning problems in the activities of the Center for Special Education Support. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Valchev! The problem we will be talking about today and which concerns my question to you today, you know that it is not from now on, it is from before the summer of last year. Then I presented to you an exhibition of colleagues from the Center for Special Educational Support "Academic Todor Samodumov" in Kranevo. Thank you for your quick intervention, for ordering an immediate inspection of the center in question. Because the results of the examination are very serious as conclusions and according to some of the colleagues.. do not see any change in the way the Center is managed and managed, I ask this question. The findings of the examination are serious: the Director, as a management body, has committed violations by having appointed as his replacement in the period of his absence non-pedagogical specialist. Honestly to tell you, for the first time I have met such a thing, and in my practice as a director so far I have not heard of such a thing; that he has not fulfilled a number of arrangements in the CDC when it comes to determining minimum wages; that he has not exercised effective control over the proper conduct of compulsory school records; that including as a secondary authorising officer who is responsible for budgeting, on the basis of art. 289 of the Law on pre-school and school education and in connection with art. 6 and 7 of the Law on Financial Management and Control of the Public Sector has not carried out control over the lawful and appropriate spending of budget resources. In other words, the violations found are very serious. Therefore, my question to you is: to date, what is the financial and organizational state of the Center, has the Regional Management of Education implemented, the prescriptions that have been made in the verification report, and if not, what steps will the Ministry of Education and Science take, given the violations found by the Director, some of which I believe speak of serious professional incompetence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Anastasova! In July 2018, such verification was carried out by a committee of the Ministry of Education and Science. Following the violations found by the Head of the Regional Educational Management, Dobrich has been assigned to take competence actions against the Director of the Centre for Special Educational Support. The proposals we quoted in our report have been implemented. By order of the Head of the Regional Government, mandatory regulations have been made to the Director to remedy the deficiencies and violations. He has been punished for disciplinary action for the purposes of art. 188, para. 1 of the Labour Code. Regional management experts have provided methodological support to the Director in relation to the development and completion of documents from compulsory school documentation. With regard to the financial situation of the Centre, the municipality of Balchik has fully cooperated in determining the amount of subsidies and the regularity of their granting. As a result, payments to pedagogical and non-pedagogical specialists and counterparties are regulated. According to the Director's Special Education Support Report at the end of the year, there are no overdue commitments and budget spending. The financial year 2018 ended normally and with a small transitional balance. The Director of the Centre for Special Educational Support was appointed in 2016 on the basis of art. 70, para. 1 in relation to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 4 of the Labour Code until taking up a position on the basis of a contest. In November 2018, a competition was announced for the position of............................................................................................... Mrs. Boeva, currently and then a temporary member of the office of the Centre, has not submitted documents for participation in the competition. Documents have submitted two candidates who have not covered the requirements for taking up the post. Currently Mrs. Boeva continues to act as director until the competition, which we are planning to announce again this year. If we are talking in general about special educational support centres, last year we again analyzed their budgets and found that we need to increase to a greater extent, all the more so when we are talking about the introduction of the overall Concept for Inclusive Education and Modernization of their activities. We have realized the project "Inclusive Education" which has helped several centers to implement modern support with modern material and technical base. However, this requires significant additional funds. This year, these special educational support centres are the units in which to the greatest extent we have increased spending standards. In addition to securing the increase in remuneration, they also received an additional remuneration of around 46 in total, 47%, the standard of special education support centres was increased. On the other hand, this is accompanied by a reduction of children in them. Perhaps they will not really see this increase, but we have generally taken a responsible approach and are willing to improve the support that special educational support centres are implementing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u81	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Valchev, colleagues! I am pleased that the prescriptions are met by the Regional Education Management in Dobrich, although the violations are such and I am not convinced that the administrative punishment for The check never made it clear why it was necessary in the middle of the school year to change, to cut people's budget and to work in a constant stress. The answers here are two because there is a serious difference in the number of children who are claimed in admin and on the basis of which the budget is drawn up and the actual number of children. It has never been clarified whether this error of the Director is conscious or because of incompetence, but anyway, it is a very serious financial violation and you know it. From now on, there is no way Mrs. Boeva applied for the principal's seat, since she already had disciplinary punishment. The committee has certainly decided that there is no suitable one and no one has won the competition, but I think that your attention should be focused more seriously on the activities of the Regional Education Management in Dobrich, because obviously the control there is not at the level necessary, because a director, however unprepared, has situations in which the Regional Management can provide the relevant assistance. For your information, it seems not only for yours anymore, since the issue is public, things at the Centre are not getting any better. Part of the college is constantly in contact with me and I am worried because a number of violations continue, including those that gather 10 leva from the staff, so that the children can be carried out, because in the budget I quote what is explained to my colleagues there was no paragraph with money to carry the students. They ask: "How, since we have a dorm, do we not have funds for the transportation of children? " In other words, the violations continue and I do not know what methodical assistance the Regional Management of Education is giving to the Director's activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u83	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u84	Thank you. I mean, I accept Mrs. Anastasova's recommendation. I will address both the Centre and the control activities of the Regional Education Management in Dobrich. We also need to make sure that there is no gap in the budget this year. In any case, the director and the municipality should have known, to assess the number of children to rely on. There was an increased value of the students submitted when reading the budget for 2018. This led to the need for correction, but the regulation is clear, and they relatively know what budget they have to work with, even more so when the unit is solely and does not depend on a formula for allocation of funds at municipal level. They could have judged in January 2018, so now we will check for 2019 there is no such problem. The other thing I make as a commitment is to start a contest again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes the questions to Minister Valchev. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We move on to the questions to Minister Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on providing insufficient legally regulated income for general practitioners in order to be able to meet the costs of buying insurance premiums, according to the Ordinance on compulsory insurance of persons exercising a medical profession. You have the floor, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! On the basis of art. 189, para. 1 of the Health Act, medical institutions must insure persons who exercise a medical profession in the medical institution for the damage that may occur as a result of a guilty failure to fulfil their professional obligations. On 28 September 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 28 September 2018 to 25 September 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2018 to 25 September 2020. 189, para. 2 A Regulation on compulsory insurance of persons engaged in a medical profession was published, which divided these persons by activities into three groups of first, second and third groups, and the minimum insurance limit for outpatient medical care was set at 30 thousand. lv. for compensation upon occurrence of an event. There are increased cases of lawsuits against doctors and medical institutions, both in numbers and in the amount of compensation sought for damages to patients in medical care. There is a tendency to increase the costs of general practitioners without income to cover these costs in accordance with the requirements of the legislation in force. In this regard, Dear Minister, please answer my question: do you foresee your participation as head of the national healthcare system and controlling the activities in it, as required by art. 5 of the Health Act in finding a balance between ensuring sufficient income for general practitioners to meet the constantly increasing legally required costs that are not directly related to medical care?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u87	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Naydenova, until the adoption of the Ordinance on compulsory insurance of persons exercising a medical profession, the minimum insurance amount for compulsory insurance of the company was 500 thousand. lv. At an insurance event and 2 million. lv. for all insurance events for a period of one year. The amount of minimum insurance in the Code shall be too high for the purposes of compulsory insurance of all persons exercising a medical profession and in accordance with the legal possibility of art. 468 para. 3 of the Insurance Code was created the provision of art. 189, para. 2 of the Health Act on the basis of which differentiated thresholds for insurance amounts for those risks are to be introduced. The minimum insurance amount determined by the Ordinance for compulsory insurance under art. 189 of the Health Act for general practitioners is from 30 thousand to 90 thousand. lv. at an aggregated limit of 120 to 360 thousand. lv. depending on the risk group to which the person exercising the medical profession falls. The insurance amounts thus determined are significantly lower than those provided for in art. 468 para. 3 of the Insurance Code, minimum insurance amount in the event of compulsory insurance for liability of 500 thousand. lv. At an insurance event and 2 million. lv. for all insurance events for a period of one year. The reduction in insurance amounts must result in a reduction in insurance premiums, i.e. a significant reduction in the cost of compulsory insurance for persons exercising a medical profession, including general practitioners. Of course, any person exercising a medical profession, including general practitioners, is entitled to be insured for an amount exceeding the minimum amount specified in the Ordinance. The Regulation adopted reduces the costs for medical establishments, which is linked to the reduction of the amount of insurance and the differentiation of insurance premiums depending on the risk inherent in the medical activity concerned. As regards the legally regulated revenues, it should be noted that it is clear from the reference provided by the NHIF that in 2016 the primary outpatient medical care paid funds of 186 million. 878 thousand. lv. In 2017, the amount of funds was increased to 198, 903 thousand. BGN and in 2018 were paid funds of 206 million. Eight hundred and forty-four The Act adopted by the National Assembly on the budget of the NHIF for 2019 on health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care provided 225 million. lv. for this year. Dear Dr. Naydenova, the above facts and circumstances clearly show that the Ministry of Health has done what is necessary, creating a legal framework allowing substantial reduction of the costs of general practitioners at least in the part of compulsory insurance, as well as measures in the direction of increasing the funds provided by the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2019. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u89	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u90	Dear Minister, I am pleased that this regulation has come out. It was necessary for all medical professionals exercising the medical profession. It is true, I cannot argue that the funds have increased as a trend in the last three years, but as a relative share we can now argue about how much money is going into the outpatient medical care. My concern is one thing, and I think I'll be properly understood by you. It is about the small practices of general practitioners who have recorded much less patients. Undoubtedly, they will receive less revenue. You know that the policy of insurance companies we cannot define and not every insurance company, having its own policy, will be inclined to change it with prices down in terms of what can be purchased by general practitioners as a service.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u91	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. A hole? You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Naydenova, you know that the Ordinance was put to public discussion. We had conversations with both outpatient medical and insurance contractors. I think we've reached a consensus. I hope this consensus is equally good for both sides. We'll monitor the process. I'm making a commitment, and if there's a problem, we'll react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u93	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Ilian Timchev on the policy of the Ministry of Health to ensure the right of access to medical care provided by general practitioners. You have the floor, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u94	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Our national health system has an unlimited number of problems that need to be solved step by step this year. Today we are discussing short-term and long-term measures to ensure that primary outpatient medical care is available. Mr. Minister, we also want to know your intentions on this matter. The general practitioner is the main one standing at the entrance of the system. Expecting and providing complex health care, it reduces the cost of health care, and one of the main objectives of reforms is reducing hospital beds and patients and ensuring a longer life expectancy in good health. Many of the problems in primary outpatient medical care are identical to our entire system.. reduce the number of doctors, increase the unoccupied individual and group practices, high average age of general practitioners, problems with funding and a number of others. Our question to you, Minister, is as follows: what short-term and long-term measures will you take to ensure available outpatient primary medical care in this situation that is currently?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u95	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dr. Naydenova and all your other colleagues who put the question before me! The National Health Insurance Fund shall pay the activities carried out by the general practitioners in primary outpatient medical care provided for in Regulation No 3 of 20 March 2018 laying down a package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the National Framework Contract for medical activities. The insurance with general practitioners as of 31 December 2018 on average for the country is one doctor of 1409 health insured persons with continuous health insurance rights. Compared to the same period last year, a general practitioner served 1396 health insured persons with continuous health insurance rights. It should be noted that the outlined trends are similar in the countries of the European Union. The insurance of the population in our country with general practitioners is on average 6.2 per 10,000 or the same as in Romania and Germany. According to the data of the general practitioners in Belgium, about and more than twice as much as in Bulgaria is the insurance of general practitioners in Belgium.... 11.3; France is 15.4 and significantly lower in Greece..... 3.2; Poland................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The highest insurance in the RZIF is Pleven, a general practitioner has 1072 insured persons. In the RZOC "Dobrich" "1171 insured persons; RZOC "Vidin" "1210 insured persons." The lowest is the insurance in the RHIF Razgrad, where a general practitioner has 2004 health insured persons; in the RHIF Kardzhali, where a general practitioner has 2026 health insured persons. According to the annual accounts for the cash execution of the NHIF Budget Act, an increase in health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care is reported annually. The funds paid in 2017 for health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care amounted to 198 million. 903 thousand. lv. In 2018, the funds paid by the National Health Insurance Fund amounted to 206 million. Eight hundred and forty-four thousand. BGN, which shows an increase of 7 million. 941 thousand. lv. The increase is also taken into account in the means paid to performers of primary outpatient medical care for work under adverse conditions. The amount paid for 2018 amounts to 4 million. 817 thousand. BGN, while during the previous year 4 million were paid for the same period during the same period. 739 thousand. BGN, which is 78 thousand. lv. more than the previous year. According to the list of settlements registered in RZI addresses with adverse conditions and remuneration for work in them, 1074 settlements were identified as adverse, while in 2018 the settlements grew to 1139. For the next 2019, the NHIF Budget Act sets an 8.6% increase in the funds for health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care and amounts to 225 million. lv. The Treaty amending and supplementing the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities 2018 between NHIF and the Bulgarian Medical Union, which enters into force from 1 January 2019, agreed an increase in the prices paid to the performers of primary outpatient medical care both on capitation pay and on a large part of the activities. With the changes to the Regulation on the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system, which I deeply hope will be ready by the end of the month, we will determine the number of residents and we will finance scholarships to specialize in doctors, as one of the priorities will be doctors in the specialty of general medicine who perform the functions of general practitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u97	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions. You have the floor, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u98	The first question is mine. Dear Minister, I think that where there are problems with accessibility to medical care, there are also problems with free practices in such settlements. If it comes to the fact that, despite all the efforts made by the Ministry, by the Committee on Health to meet all the requirements and no problems and breakthroughs in accessibility, we could only pitch as an idea, propose and consider legislative initiatives so that specialists from hospital care, pediatricians and internal diseases can work part-time or for some time in these free practices. I am saying what may have happened if it would have happened, and if all the measures that you foresee in the short and long term do not have an impact, let us take pό in time as a solution. And this is to me the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u99	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova! You have the floor to answer, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Dr. Naydenova, this is a proposal that can be considered. Unfortunately, we can't do it right away. We can start a conversation with the Bulgarian Medical Union and when preparing the National Framework Treaty for next year to see how we can really make more optimal and more effective use of the available human resources in the system, including to help primary outpatient medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u101	Thank you, dear Minister! Attitude? You're not gonna get any attitude. Thank you. This was the last question for Minister Ananiev. Thank you for your participation. [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria]] She asked. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Yordanov.]] I'm sorry, but the two questions are coming together. I was under the impression that it was already set.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u102	It's not set. There is a procedure that has a first supplementary and second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u103	And then the answer to the two supplementary questions follows procedure. So I was a little surprised, but you can express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is possible that on the first day of the work of the spring session of the National Assembly there are such misunderstandings. You must have misunderstood, but it is indeed the procedure: the first and second supplementary question. Since I don't have this opportunity, I'm going to allow myself to express my attitude, and I suppose the Minister will also take account of the problem afterwards. I heard your stats. You are an experienced economist and experienced player with the numbers, but you know very well as a minister that 500 personal doctors do not reach in Bulgaria. [[(Replica by Minister Kiril Ananiev:]] It's five hundred. I just downloaded the data from the Internet, and I can point them out to you. This problem, as you pointed out this time quite respectfully, in some regions of the country is very difficult. In our opinion, as professionals, he has two sides. One side, as paradoxical as it sounds to you now, this is the so-called specialty of General Medicine. You should know it from us as doctors that, Mr. Ananiev, hardly anyone wants to specialize in this medical specialty. It condemns you as, by the way, is the medicine that I have talked about personally with you about to such a narrow spectrum of activity that you remain within your entire life in a position that has no development whatsoever. It is only right for the Ministry to make a reference within the territory of the continent of Europe and the European Union: at all this specialty of how it is addressed there is, isn't it not, how general practitioners work? Because here in this room, there are general practitioners, and there are decent doctors who don't have that specialty. The Ministry is constantly putting off during the time when this sword will fall and you will not be able to work as a general practitioner unless you have the specialty of General Medicine. Which, of course, is a nonsense, because people are prepared and can perform this role without having that specialty. So in this canon of specialties you have to enter quite calmly, quite reasonably with one discussion, and things to sort out so that what Dr. Naydenova said, and you take it as a positive, can be realized within, if not now, then the following calendar year. The second question is very important. It is related to the rights of general practitioners and they repeatedly state in meetings and with us, have stated it in meetings and with the Ministry's management that we should seriously reconsider the role of the general practitioner. We had a round table here just a few weeks ago at the end of last calendar year, which was dedicated to a very specific medical care. There it was shown that there is a great desire from the general practitioners, but there is no vision from the state that they can help a lot in this regard, so as not to come up with many deviations, which for some parts of Bulgaria, for some regions of Bulgaria are very problematic in this particular type of aid. In this sense, the rights of doctors, in addition to stimulating them, as you say: well, how many per capita doctors are in different regions... But if I tell you what the average age of these doctors is, for God's sake, she's very tall! Therefore, since last year, the Society of General Practitioners has warned that only in the next 5 years, there can be a major crisis, as no one without these two countries, if they do not get better, will go and work this highly responsible... because 80% of the medical needs of the population are provided by general practitioners. It's the truth! This should be emphasized by Bulgarian healthcare. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u105	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Mr. Minister, thank you for your participation today. We move on to the questions to Minister Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov about the gas warehouse. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question to you is about a gas warehouse. According to the adopted Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 another 2011 is written in the short-term investment measures expanding the capacity for storage of natural gas and for daily extraction to the extent necessary to cover consumption. In the previous National Assembly with a colleague from the parliamentary group Georgi Bojinov, we asked a question about the expansion of the gas storage facility. You, Madam Minister, answered that you have set yourself the goal of turning it into a modern gas storage facility meeting the standards and requirements of the European Union for this type of activity and for this purpose there are two projects under way: the Modernization of the gas storage infrastructure and the Project for the operation and expansion of the Chiren gas storage facility, the aim being to increase the daily capacity for the overall storage in the subsequent increase of the daily performance of the underground gas storage facility in Chiren. In this regard, since the project and intentions to expand both the extraction and the capacity of the warehouse in Chiren are more than 10 years old, the specific question to you is: what has been undertaken and what is envisaged for the expansion of the repository? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u108	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iankov! The issue you are putting on the agenda is really important, it is important for the country's energy system, which is extremely important from the point of view of the security of natural gas supplies. It's a project we've been working on for a long time. As you mentioned, as well as 2015 I think that there were similar questions raised in 2016 and I have informed the honourable Members of all the actions that have been taken. I will now very briefly summarize what has been done so far and what is to come from now on. Firstly, it is important to know that the project for the expansion of the capacity of the underground gas storage "Ciren" is included in the current third list of projects of common interest of the European Union. It is also part of the 10-year plan for the development of the networks of the European network of transmission system operators and of Bulgartransgaz. The activities that have been carried out so far and which are to be carried out are the following: in 2010 a technological project for the operation and expansion of an underground gas warehouse has been developed, in which four options for the expansion of the gas storage facility have been developed to gradually increase the tank pressure to 180 bar. As the most economically profitable project offers option 3, i.e. active gas 1 billion. Cube. M gas, pressure flow rate and yield of 8 to 10 million Cube. m per day and maximum tank pressure up to 150 bar. These parameters are determined on the basis of an analysis of the available geologo-geophysical drilling and tank-engineering information on the Chiren geological structure and the capacity capabilities of the above-ground facilities. The geomechanical simulation of the Chiren tank and the land-based gas analysis of the area of the Chiren structure were completed in 2015 and 2016 respectively. To refine the option of expanding the gas storage in the maximum tank pressure aspect, additional testing is provided. These are 3D seismic researches - geomechanical simulation and ground gas analysis - the implementation of 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chiran structure. "Bulgartransgaz" applied for funding under the Connecting Europe Facility of 50% of the value of the activity, respectively 3 million. 900,000. Euros. On 23 October 2015, a free funding agreement was signed for the conduct of 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chirean structure, part of the Project "Extendment of the underground gas storage facility" which is under implementation and includes the following main activities: activity 1 is related to carrying out 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chiren structure and activity 2 " quality control" when carrying out 3D field seismic studies and processing of the data received. According to the schedule of the signed grant agreement for the implementation of activity 2 on 14 July 2016, a contract with quality control was signed when carrying out 3D field seismic studies on the area of the Chirean structure. At present, contract activities are under way. On 18 December 2017, the project activities were suspended due to circumstances which were outside the control of the entity of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You know that this type of activity is carried out under the terms and conditions of the Public Procurement Act. There was an appeal on the part of one of the participants in the procedure and this process ended. On 25 May 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 May 2018 to 25 May 2018 appointing the members and The results of the study, as well as the other analyses and studies carried out, will serve as the basis for determining the final version of the extension of the underground gas storage facility Construction, as well as putting into service, is planned to be completed in 2024. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question to Minister Petkova is again from the MP Krasimir Yankov on a 1 billion-billion-dollar supply contract. Cube. m of gas from Azerbaijan. You have the floor, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u110	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question to you is about a 1 billion-dollar supply contract. Cube. m of gas from Azerbaijan. More than 10 years ago, an agreement was signed on a government visit by President Georgi Parvanov and in 2013 the state-owned company Bulgargaz Cube. Azeri gas annually since 2019! The contract is for 25 years. With this contract, the public supplier announces, for the first time, the sources and routes for the supply of natural gas for the Bulgarian market are actually diversifying. My question to you is: since we are now 2019, is there any action taken by the Ministry of Energy to deliver natural gas supplies from Azerbaijan under this treaty? Will there be such deliveries during this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u112	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iankov! We have repeatedly mentioned that a strategic project for the Bulgarian government for years has been diversification of sources and routes for the supply of natural gas. In order for this priority to become a fact for Bulgaria, several mandatory conditions must be met. Firstly, we must have the necessary infrastructure to enable us to supply natural gas from a different source, on a different route, and the second condition is that we really have such contracts that enable us to obtain natural gas at competitive prices and competitive conditions respectively. Only in this way can we really talk about liberalising the natural gas market and only in this way will we be able to protect the interests of Bulgarian consumers and Bulgarian business in terms of the competitiveness of the relevant supplies and competitive price of this extremely important raw material. As you mentioned, a contract was signed in September 2013 between Bulgargaz (Bulgargaz) and the Azerbaijani company (Sokar) for delivery of 1 billion. Cube. m of gas. These supplies are directly linked to two extremely important projects that are being implemented. This is the South Gas Corridor project, from which the main, integral part is the interconnector Greece Bulgaria. It is precisely the implementation of this project that will enable Bulgaria to implement the contract concluded in 2013 and deliver 1 billion. Cube. m gas, which basically represents nearly one third of our natural gas consumption. And here we can really talk about a real diversification of the natural gas supply source, competitive conditions and competitive environment. With regard to the implementation of this treaty, we must concentrate our efforts on the implementation of the project for Interconnector Greece. In this regard, I think it is important to explain to you that this project is in the final phase, perhaps within a few days they should complete public procurement activities. They are three public contracts that are related to one with the choice of a pipe supplier, the other with the choice of an engineer consultant, and the third with the choice of a contractor, the builder of the project. These procurements must be finalised and I hope that within the next two to three months the real start of the construction of the interconnector will begin. This construction must end the second half of 2020, when the first natural gas supplies along the southern gas corridor should be scheduled under the contract, which has This process moves in the necessary time parameters. We're moving parallel with our colleagues from the Southern Gas Corridor. We keep the country informed on a regular basis about the contract. They want to know at any given moment how the implementation of the project for Interconnector Greece is developing. So we are in constant contact with them and inform them of all the actions we have taken. On our part, everything in connection with the project is finalized to the extent that funding is provided, the corresponding State aid notifications, which is provided by the Bulgarian Government in the form of a State guarantee of 110 million, have been made. Euros. The two regulators of Greece and Bulgaria have ruled on exempting the project from the requirements for regulated access under Directive 73, so all that should be taken as an action on our part is a fact, including a permit for construction of Bulgarian territory. The construction permit on the territory of Greece will be issued at one subsequent stage, as their national legislation provides for such an option and such an opportunity. But what I can say is that the contract with Sokar is going to be implemented, and it is directly related to the realization of the interconnector Greece - Bulgaria, which should be put into commercial operation 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u113	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u114	Dear Minister, it is characteristic of your management that you constantly create some chimera projects and deviate from the real commitments. We were going to make a gas hub, which is neither clear how we will fill, nor what resources it will be built with. And Chiren, where the gas reserves for our energy supply are real, you put them in the freezer. There are gas supply contracts without a really close perspective for available delivery routes. What is this incompetence or irresponsibility? In my opinion, both of them! The ten years of management of GERB are a severe blow to our energy without launching any strategic project, more and more marked outline of deficits and increasing prices for our lifestyle and economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yankov, I think that before we make such a conclusion, we should make a retrospective about what happened back in time, how many infrastructure projects in energy we have realized, how and under what conditions. The first and most important thing we need to know is that each such infrastructure project in the field of energy is carried out under certain rules. These are the rules of the European Union, which we are a member of, and I dare say we are an extremely loyal member of the European Union. These rules must be followed. We respect them and therefore every action carried out in connection with the realization of each of these projects must go its way according to the rules of the European Union. Those rules require appropriate reviews, concerts, approved things that we do. There's no way to talk about chimera projects. The Interconnector Greece is still included in the European Union's seven top priorities. Look at the projects of common interest within the European Union, see the importance given to this project, because it does not have only national importance, it does not only concern Bulgaria. We need to look in wider frames. This project concerns the entire region of Southeast Europe. This is the project that will give a real opportunity for diversification not only for Bulgaria, but for the whole region as well. In direct connection with this project is the construction of Bulgaria's interconnector - Serbia, which will actually enable these countries to have access to another different source for natural gas supply. So none of our projects are chimeric.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u117	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u118	It simply needs to be followed, the project will become a fact and will be put into commercial operation in 2020. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's have a little more patience! And as for the gas hub, you know that this is a project that we are developing together with the European Commission. It is a project that also has regional significance and includes, in addition to infrastructure, the creation of a natural gas trading exchange. This will already be a very crucial step.. something that has not so far happened in Bulgaria so that natural gas can be traded under market conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-11.u119	Thank you for your participation today, Minister Petkova. This concludes Parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 16 January 2019 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
