ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that they be included in the weekly Programme for the National Assembly's work: Abort the powers of MPs of the National Assembly of the National Assembly of the Presidents Yordan Mladenov, Pencho Milkov, Stanislav Vladimirov, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Anelia Klisarova and Hristo Grudev by proposing to become the second item for today's plenary session. Draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens and Draft Decision on the Report. The national representative Yordan Tsonev is the chairman of the interim committee of inquiry, and I propose that he become the third for today's plenary session. Please vote. Vote 161 MPs: 157 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE UNCLOSED CHANGE OF NOTES ON 22 JULY 2019 AGREEMENT FOR THE CHANGE OF THE CHANGE OF THE STATE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF FRANCOPHONIA ON THE FUNCTION OF THE FRANCOPHONIC INSTITUTE OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT (FIAU) IN SOFIA, SUBMITTED TO 28 AUGUST 2002 Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science for the Presentation of the Report. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, before I introduce you to the Report, a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted: from the Ministry of Education and Science: Ms. Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Georg Georgiev Deputy Minister, and Ms. Maria Spasova Director of the Directorate of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 153 MPs: 149, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Please continue with the submission of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of an Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie on the functioning of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002, No 90-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 November 2019, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie on the Functioning of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002, No 90-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019. The meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science: Krasimir Valchev Minister; from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Georg Georgiev [[Noise.]] In the Committee on Education and Science there was an opinion from the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation that the current and further functioning of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management in Sofia as a specialized institute of the Francophony of Administration and Management will strengthen the role of our country as a factor and desired partner of the International Organisation of Francophony in Central and Eastern Europe and the Western Balkans. [[Noise.]] The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Georg Georgiev, who stressed that the Francophone Institute of Administration and Governance (FIAU) in Sofia was created on a proposal from the Republic of Bulgaria before the Fifth Forum at the highest level of Francophonie (Mauritius, 1993).). The Institute was opened in 1995 under an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the one hand, and the Association of universities with partial or complete teaching in French and the University of French Language Network, on the other hand, on the implementation of the FIAU Project, signed on 12 December 1994. [[Noise.]] The Francophone Institute of Administration and Management is an institute of an international organisation which organizes trainings under the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies on Programmes of universities with academic accreditation in countries of the European Union, in particular France and Belgium, but does not have lecturers of a basic employment contract and does not issue diplomas. The training is provided by visiting lecturers and diplomas are issued by universities under whose programs training is organized. Decision of the Council of Ministers of 29 May 2019, p. The Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonia on the Functioning of the Francophonian Institute of Administration and Administration in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002, was concluded on 22 July 2019. [[Noise.]] The Agreement concluded to amend the Agreement in force has not changed the regime and scope established for 23 years in the activities of the Institute and has not changed the objectives and organisational principles of its work. [[Noise.]] The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly pursuant to art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria as amended by Law Agreement. [[Loud noise.]] The provisions of the Agreement are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian legislation, the international obligations of our country and the law of the European Union and do not require measures of a legislative nature with a view to their implementation. The conclusion of an Agreement amending the Agreement is due to the need for: - a change of the name of the Institute following a finding of a coincidence of the French abbreviation of the name c that of an institute registered in France in 1968. [[Loud noise.]] C the renaming of the Institute is solved by an intellectual property problem and is dropped as an indeterminate lawsuit in France against the University Agency of Francophonie; - settlement of the terms and conditions of the parties in relation to the granting of the Institute of Right of Use on premises in Sofia, which is regulated in Additional Arrangement No 1 to the Agreement. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u5	Excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I apologize, but it's so loud that you really can't hear what Mrs. Stoyanova is introducing us to. [[Loud noise.]] Please sit down and keep quiet or just have your conversations outside the Chamber. Please! [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u6	Mr. Krasimir Valchev... [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u7	No, wait, because there are people who haven't heard what I just asked. [[Noise.]] We keep waiting. [[Noise.]] A little more silence, please! [[Noise.]] If we can't keep quiet and agree... [[Noise.]] I wouldn't like to mention the names of MPs, please! Thank you. Continue, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u8	Mr. Krasimir Valchev expressed support for the bill under consideration. After a vote with results: the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie on the Functioning of the Francophonian Institute of Administration and Management in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002, No 90-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u9	Thank you. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the bill presented to you. They voted 147 MPs: 144, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u10	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u11	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the second vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonia on the Functioning of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Management in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002, No 90-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u13	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u14	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonia on the functioning of the Francophonian Institute of Administration and Management (FIAU) in Sofia on 22 July 2019 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie on the functioning of the Francophonian Institute of Administration and Management (FIAU) in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002. A single member. Ratifying the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonia on the Functioning of the Francophonian Institute of Administration and Management (FIAU) in Sofia on 22 July 2019, signed on 28 August 2012. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u15	Thank you. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I will put to the vote four texts: the name of the Law, the content of a member only by importer, the name of the section.. Vote 152 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional item: second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance with the Importer of the Council of Ministers. The bill was adopted in the first vote in September, proposing to become item four for today's plenary session. Please, voting mode. Vote 126 MPs: 103, against 22, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: TERMINATION OF FULL POWERS OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. From MP Yordan Mladenov: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning to the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov as a MP from the Thirteenth Election Region. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 141, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Application by the National Representative Pencho Milkov: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning to the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Pencho Mladenov Milkov as the MP from the Nineteenth Election Region. Please, voting mode. They voted 146 MPs: for 145, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Application by National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning to the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Stanislav Ivanov as MP from the Fourteenth Election Region "Pernishki." Please, voting mode. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Application by the National Representative Dencho Boyadzhiev: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning to the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev as a MP from the 18th election district of Razgrad. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Application by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I resign to the National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova as a MP from the Third Election Region. Please, voting mode. Vote 137 MPs: 135, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next application is from the MP Hristo Grudev: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected from the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Hristo Grudev Grudev as a MP from the Seventeenth Election Region of Plovdiv. Please, voting mode. Vote 131 MPs: 127 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE LEARNING OF ALL DATA, FACTS AND ASSISTANCES IN THE EUROPEAN AND BULGARIAN MEDIA TROUBLE FOR THE SCANDAL UNDERSTANDING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY. Who will present the motives and the Project from the Temporary Commission? Is there no one from the Commission? I'll introduce you to the motives: The need for an extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the alleged bribery scheme in European and Bulgarian media in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals for another 2 months is the need for additional time for a comprehensive analysis of the information collected in the process of work, as well as the need for technological time to prepare a report. I'll introduce you to the draft decision. Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It extends the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens by 2 (two) months. Voting regime for the submitted project. They voted 116 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. Presentation of the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications "Please, Dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow Andreana Atanasova to enter the Deputy Minister of Transport, Atanas Temelkov, Chairman of the State Agency of Electronic Management and Kiril Doychinov, Secretary General of the State Agency of Electronic Governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u17	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. 86 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u18	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. Under § 2 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u19	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote four texts: the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision, the text of the importer for § 1, the Commission proposal for the rejection of § 2 and the text of the importer for § 3, which becomes § 2. They voted 86 MPs: 77, against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u20	Under § 4 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 4: 1. in t. 1 in the new content of para. 2 ct. 1 after the word "identification', in its second use a comma shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be removed. 2. in t. 2: (a) the introductory sentence shall be changed to 3.................................................................................. (b) the created para. 4 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the application of the relevant electronic administrative service, the persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 enable citizens and organisations to be identified in accordance with the Law on Electronic Identification and/or by means of electronic identification means designated by a decision of the Council of Ministers issued and maintained by administrative authorities. 2. They're creating an al. 3... The electronic identification means referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the electronic identification means referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 2 must be interoperable and integrated with the electronic authentication system, built and maintained by the State Agency. (4) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 indicate the means under para. 2 through which citizens and organisations declare the electronic administrative services they provide and their levels of assurance in accordance with art. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No (5) The administrative authorities shall record the means of electronic identification by which citizens and organisations declare the electronic administrative services provided by them in the Administrative Register under art. 61 of the Administration Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 the words "seconds" shall be replaced by "seconds and milliseconds."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u21	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. Vote 79 MPs: 27, Against 16, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the two texts of the drafts proposed by the Commission for § 4, which shall become § 3, and the version proposed by the Commission for § 5, which shall become § 4. 88 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u22	Under § 6 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following "1." The title is amended as follows: 2. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The rules for the provision of electronic administrative services, for the exchange of electronic documents between administrative authorities, citizens and organisations and for the internal exchange of electronic documents within the different administrations in the relevant policy areas shall be laid down by regulations. 3. A new para is being created. 2: The provisions of para 2 shall apply. 1 shall be issued by the relevant ministers where the organisation of work and processes in the relevant policy areas require the creation of a special order, compliance with stricter network and information security requirements or specific interoperability standards are established for them. The orders shall be agreed with the Chairman of the State Agency. 4. Previously on AMC's... 2 " 4" became respectively. 3... 5........................................................................... 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the word "sectors' shall be deleted and after the words "power management' shall be added to the relevant policy areas. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. Under § 8 there is a proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In § 8 in the new content of art. 7c is created t. 10a: 10a. carry out system integration activities that include the construction, maintenance, development and monitoring of the performance of information systems used by administrative authorities; The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 7c is amended as follows: The power of the Chair of the Agency Art. 7c. The Chair of the Agency shall: 1. conduct state policy in the following areas: (a) electronic control; (b) electronic certification services; (c) electronic identification; (d) the spatial information infrastructure; (e) public sector information in machine-readable open format; 2. develop and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers draft regulations in the field of electronic management and the use of information and communication technologies in the activities of administrative bodies and their administrations; 3. develop and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. approve strategies for the development of e-government by policy areas and validate, and monitor the implementation of their implementation plans; 5. develop and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers a single policy on information resources, issue methodological guidelines and coordinate its implementation; 6. approve and develop the Architecture of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria and monitor its implementation, coordinate the development and approval of the projects of Architectures for the Development of Electronic Governance in Policy Areas prepared by the relevant Deputy Prime Minister or Minister and monitor the implementation of the adopted architectures in policy areas; 7. implement methodological guidance, coordination and control of activities for the implementation of the requirements for the exchange of electronic documents between administrative authorities and with citizens and organisations and the internal turnover of electronic documents and their subsequent backup; 8. review the compliance of the activities of the administrative bodies financed by the state budget, municipal budgets and other sources, with the established policies, strategic documents and programs, provide guidance and agree the documents under art. 7d, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 as well as ct. 3 concerning changes made in the field of electronic management and information and communication technologies, in order determined by the regulation under art. 7d, para. 6; 9. participate in the prioritization, coordination and control of the implementation of electronic administrative services and information systems in administrations; 10. approve project proposals and activities, as well as amendments to projects and activities, coordinate and monitor the implementation of e-management projects, information and communication technologies of administrative bodies financed by State budget funds, from the Structural and Investment Funds of the European Union and from other sources; 11. certify the compliance of the information systems with the interoperability requirements and controls the administrative authorities to comply with those requirements; 12. coordinate and support the integration of information systems for electronic management of administrative bodies with those of the Member States of the European Union; 13. implement e-government projects relevant to all administrations; 14. build and coordinate the shared resources of electronic management, build and develop an environment for configuration and testing of electronic administrative services on them and coordinate the configuration and implementation of these services; 15. builds, leads and maintains the registers under this law; 16. build, coordinate and control the functioning of the Single portal for access to electronic administrative services; 17. issue methodological guidance and assist administrations in defining the structure and content of the data sets for publication in the Open Data Portal under the Public Information Access Act; 18. implement methodological guidance, coordination and control over activities for the construction, maintenance and use of national infrastructure for spatial information and exercise the powers under the Space Data Access Act; 19. prepare a status report and an annual plan for the development and renewal of information resources in the administration and information resources of the single electronic communication network of the state administration and for the needs of national security; 20. supervise the performance of the duties of the primary data controllers under art. 3 and controls the fulfilment of the requirements under art. 58a; 21. exercise other powers provided for by law or by any other regulatory act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u23	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 6, which shall become § 5, and the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. They voted 99 MPs: 86, none, abstention 13. The proposals have been accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 31, against 22, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment proposed by the Commission for § 8, which shall become § 7. 90 MPs voted: 77 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u24	Under § 9 there is a proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 9. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7d The following 1. In para. 1 after the words the system shall be added to the performance of the system and the words shall be deleted in the activities of the administrative bodies and their administrations. 2. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 after the word 3. In para. 6 words under Art. 7c, t. The documents referred to in paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the documents referred to in paragraph 9 and shall be replaced by the documents referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 2, p. 1 and 2 as well as ct. 3 on changes in e-government and information and communication technologies. 4. They're creating an al. 7? 9: In preparing the three-year budget forecasts and the draft budgets for the following year, the administrative authorities shall allocate the costs foreseen for electronic management and information and communication technologies used by them from the other funds for current and capital expenditure and shall provide them for coordination under para. 6. (8) The costs of the administrative bodies provided for by electronic management and the information and communication technologies used by them must include means to maintain the systems available in the administrative body. Systems for which no maintenance means are provided shall be decommissioned in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 12, para. 4. (9) The documents for coordination under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 as well as ct. 3, on changes made to budgets in the field of electronic management and information and communication technologies, shall be determined under the terms and conditions of the budget procedure concerned. Under § 10, there is a proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In § 10 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." In para. The second sentence is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10, as in para. 5 the word "Register" is replaced by "Administrative Register." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 11, and the words "All projects" are replaced by "Projects."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9, which shall become § 8. Vote 92 MPs: 80, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: in 20, against 37, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9, and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 11 and 12, which shall become paragraphs 10 and 11, with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission in both paragraphs. They voted 93 MPs: 81, against 2, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u26	Under § 13 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs in § 13 t. Two out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 13, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Chapter 1, Section II with art. 7k "7o" is canceled. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 7q is repealed. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Section IV shall be established in Chapter 1 of Article IV. 7c: Section IV System integration System integration activities Art. 7c. System integration activities include building, maintaining, developing and monitoring the performance of the information systems used by the administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u27	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 27, against 39, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for § 13, which becomes § 12, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with a text under the Commission Report, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with a text under the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: 82, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u28	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 14. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 8 is created. The administrative services to be provided by electronic means shall be entered in the Administrative Register under art. 61 of the Administration Act. (5) The electronic forms for the application of electronic administrative services shall be by a model established by the President of the State Agency of Electronic Governance and shall be entered in the Administrative Register under art. 61 of the Administration Act. (6) The electronic models of the results of the service shall be based on a model established by the President of the State Agency of Electronic Management and shall be entered in the Administrative Register under art. 61 of the Administration Act. Under § 15 there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The electronic administrative service provider shall communicate in an understandable and accessible manner the services it provides, as well as the main working process for the application and provision of electronic administrative services. 3. A new para is being created. 2: Where the provider of electronic administrative services is an administrative authority, it shall enter the information under para. 3 sentence first in the Administrative Register under art. 61 of the Administration Act. 4. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 14, which shall become § 15. Vote 94 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. Vote 89 MPs: 22, against 53, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version proposed by the Commission for § 15, which becomes § 16. Vote 85 MPs: 75, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u30	Under § 16 there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 16. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 The portal under para. 2 shall be added after the words............................................................................................ 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The general requirements for the provision of electronic administrative services shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 t. 1 is amended as "1." by user interface, such as: (a) a personal profile registered in a secure e-service information system maintained by the State Agency (ESA) as a module of the Single portal for access to electronic administrative services that allows receiving a message containing information for downloading the compiled document; or (b) an e-mail address enabling a message to be received containing information on the document drawn up by a secure electronic service information system; Under § 18, there is a proposal from Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs to drop § 18. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words "Safe Service Information System" shall be replaced by "Safe Electronic Service Information System" maintained by the State Agency "Electron Management" and then a comma shall be placed after them. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The submission and service of documents by electronic means shall be certified by a copy of the electronic record for the dispatch, respectively the withdrawal stored in a secure electronic service system maintained by the State Agency. The service may also be certified by a provider of a qualified e-mail service within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 3. The creation of para. 5. The submission and service of documents by electronic means related to the provision of electronic administrative services shall also be carried out through a secure electronic service system maintained by the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u31	Continue with § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u32	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u33	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for paragraphs 16 and 17 by importer, which shall become respectively paragraphs 17 and 18. Vote 91 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 92 MPs: 16 against 49 and abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Now I am putting two texts to the vote - this is the version that the Commission proposes for the texts of § 18, which becomes § 19, and the text of the importer for § 19, which becomes § 20. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u35	That's a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u36	There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs to create a new § 19a: seventeena. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. They're creating an al. 1? 4: The persons referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be the persons referred to in Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, (2) In the field of electronic signature shall be entered in Bulgarian the names and positions of the signatory in a form visible when printing the document content. In the field of electronic printing, the BULSTAT code and the name of the administration which placed the seal in a form visible when printing the document content shall be entered. (3) In the field of electronic printing on document content under para. 1 enter the BULSTAT code and the name of the administration that placed the seal in a form visible when printing the document content. (4) Document content shall be provided in paper form as a copy of the content in electronic form. The copy shall be signed manually by the person who made it. 2. So far, text becomes para. 5, creating a sentence first: the Head of the State Agency "E-Management" defines the order for the implementation of the provisions of para. 2 - 4 for the different types of documents. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u37	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u38	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... A new article shall be created. 50: "Register of Registers" Art. 50. (1) The Chairman of the State Agency of Electronic Management shall keep a register of registers, which shall record registers and databases of primary data controllers containing primary data. (2) The conditions and arrangements for the entry in the register under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 7d, para. 6................................................ Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Article 52 is amended as follows: Standardised application and provision of services Art. 52. (1) The administrative authorities shall apply for internal electronic administrative services among themselves by submitting a standardised request on the basis of the technological description of the service entered in the Administrative Register under art. 61 of the Administration Act. (2) The service under para. 1 shall be provided in the standardised format under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 61, para. 5 of the Administration Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u39	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 84 MPs: 14 against 50, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21; the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 22; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22 by importer which becomes § 23; and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 23 by importer which becomes § 24. They voted 83 MPs: 77, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u40	Under § 24, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In the title, the word "backends' is replaced by "specifics'. 2. Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: When preparing technical specifications for the conduct of public procurement for the development, upgrade or deployment of information systems or electronic services, administrative authorities must include in the specifications the following requirements: 3. In point (a), point (a) (a) in the text prior to the letter.......................................................... is added to the text..................................................... is added......... (b) in point "in" the words "in" supported by the agency according to art. 7c, t. 18 and the comma in front of them are deleted. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 after the words 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 words and ensure continuous maintenance of the current information security standards and the comma in front of them are deleted. 7. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. provide opportunities for electronic identification according to art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u41	Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u42	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs under Article 25. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 58b is amended as follows: Certification of conformity Art. 58b. (1) Compliance with the technical specifications with the regulatory requirements of art. 58a shall be certified by the President of the State Agency of Electronic Management under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 7d, para. 6. (2) By order of para. 1 shall be certified only the technical specifications for procurement with an estimated value greater than or equal to the value of the threshold under art. 20, para. 4 t. 2 of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u43	Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u44	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 26. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Section VI with art. 4 shall be created in Chapter 4. 58c and 58d: Section VI Accessibility of content of websites and mobile applications and consideration of disputes Accessibility of content of websites and mobile applications Art. 58c. (1) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 shall ensure accessibility of the content of their websites and mobile applications in accordance with applicable harmonised standards, parts thereof or technical specifications. (2) The obligation under para. 1 shall not apply to: 1. the websites and mobile applications of: (a) public or television operators and media service providers and public service providers for television and broadcasting; (b) non-profit corporate bodies, if they do not provide services which: (aa) are intended to satisfy the needs of or are intended for disabled persons; (bb) are not essential to the public; (c) schools, kindergartens or nurseries, for content not related to the provision of electronic administrative services; 2. the following content on the websites and mobile applications: (a) real-time media content of a specified duration; (b) online maps and cartographic services if the basic information is provided in an accessible digital way for maps intended for navigational use; (c) a third party's property content which is not financed or developed by the relevant authority or organisation under para. 1 neither is it under its control; (d) reproduction of cultural heritage collection sites where accessibility cannot be ensured for reasons of the protection of the object concerned or the authenticity of reproduction or because of the lack of automated cost-effective solutions for the easy extraction of text from manuscripts or other objects from cultural heritage collections and its conversion into accessible content. (3) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 may be exempted in whole or in part from fulfilling the accessibility obligations of the websites and mobile applications under para. 1 if the implementation results in an excessive burden for the person concerned. The excessive burden shall be determined by an assessment of the severity. (4) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.). On any other website of the person under art. 1, para. A reference to the text of the declaration published on the official website of the person shall be published. (5) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 shall at least annually update their accessibility declarations. (6) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 shall encourage and facilitate the training of their employees in order to ensure up-to-date knowledge of accessibility requirements for creating, managing and updating the accessible content of their websites and mobile applications, and shall set requirements for the qualification of the contractor for ensuring accessibility in the conduct of public procurements, the scope of which includes the construction and upgrade of websites and mobile applications. (7) By the ordinance referred to in art. 12, para. 4 are defined: 1. exceptions from the obligation to access the content of the websites and mobile applications; 2. the conditions and arrangements for the preparation and approval of the assessment under para. 3 and the requirements for its content. Reporting of alerts and complaints Art. 58 C.E. (1) The persons referred to in art. 1, para. 1 and 2 shall indicate in the accessibility declaration under art. 58c, para. 4 the procedures and time limits for examining alerts of citizens and organisations for infringements of the accessibility requirements of the content of the website or mobile application of the relevant body or organisation. (2) The sender of the signal may lodge a complaint with the President of the State Agency 1, para. 1 or 2: 1. did not respond to the alert within the time limit specified in the accessibility declaration; 2. do not take the measures to remedy the access breach referred to in the response to the alert.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u45	Thank you. One addition only to para. 4 after the public sector (public sector) (OJ L 256/103 of 12 October 2018) Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 24 by importer, which shall become § 25; the version proposed by the Commission for § 25 by importer, which shall become § 26; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 26, which shall become § 27. Vote 92 MPs: 80, none, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u46	Under § 27, there is a proposal from Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 27. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 59 is amended as follows: General control Art. 59. The President of the State Agency "E-Management" or its persons exercise control over compliance with this law. Under § 28 there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 28. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28, which shall become § 29: ....29........................................................................... Article 59a is inserted: The power to exercise control shall be delegated to the Commission in accordance with the examination procedure Art. 59a. (1) In the exercise of its powers, the President of the State Agency of Electronic Management and its persons under art. 59 shall be entitled to: 1. carry out checks at the controlled sites where communication and information systems, facilities and technical means are located, for which administrative authorities and organisations are obliged to provide access; 2. obtain access to original documents, data, information, references and other means of information related to the performance of controls from the persons inspected and require certified copies of documents in relation to the implementation of the control and/or the establishment of administrative infringements under this law; 3. verify accounting, commercial or other books or documents and information carriers as well as other documents relating to the implementation of the control and/or the establishment of administrative infringements under this law. (2) The administrative bodies, officials and organisations shall be obliged to assist the persons of the State Agency in the exercise of their powers. Under § 29, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 59b: ? Forced administrative measures Art. 59b. (1) For the prevention and suspension of violations under this law and its implementing regulations, as well as for the elimination of the harmful effects thereof, the President of the State Agency.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 59 persons shall give mandatory prescriptions to the administrative authorities and set a time limit for their implementation. The following compulsory administrative measures may be applied for the non-compliance of the prescriptions within the time limit: 1. suspension of the placing into service of communication and information systems, facilities and technical means, if the provisions of this law and its implementing regulations are not complied with; 2. suspension of the operation of communication and information systems, facilities and technical means if the provisions of this law and the regulations on its application are not complied with. (2) Forced administrative measures under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative-Processional Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32, as in para. 5 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs in accordance with Article 32. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 60b: "Observation and reporting" Art. 60b. (1) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall prepare a monitoring report for compliance with the accessibility requirements under art. 58c, para. 1. (2) The Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" shall provide the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications with the monitoring data necessary for the preparation of the report under para. 1. (3) The report under para. 1 shall be published on the websites of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u47	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for § 27, which becomes § 28; the version proposed by the Commission for § 28, which becomes § 29; the version proposed by the Commission for § 29, which becomes § 30; the text of the importer for § 30, which becomes § 31; the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 32, with the editorial amendment of the Commission; and the version proposed by the Commission for § 32, which becomes § 33. 90 MPs voted: 79, none, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted. That concludes the legislative part. The beginning of parliamentary control is at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u48	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 1 to 7 November 2019 from: - MPs Georgi Gyokov and Svetla Bachvarova to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on the policies of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in the payment of the one-off aid to the owners who took measures to clean and disinfect after the voluntary killing of the pigs because of the African plague. The reply should be made in plenary on 15 November 2019. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Dimitar Danchev; - addition to a written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Konstantin Popov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Valentina Naydenova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the MP Desislav Chukolov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Maria Ilieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of four questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Anna Slavova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the MPs Ilian Timchev and Atanas Kostadinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. Mariana Nikolova "Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy" will respond to a question from the National Representative Georgi Yanchev Gokov about the policies and measures the government will take to create conditions for decent living of the elderly. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, ageing is a long-term trend that began several decades ago in Europe. The permanent low birth rate and the higher average life expectancy change the shape of the age pyramid in the European Union. Bulgaria in this regard is no exception, even the situation is more severe.. There is a transition towards the structure of a much older population. People of working age in the European Union are decreasing and the relative number of pensioners is increasing. The share of elderly people in the general population will increase significantly in the coming decades as the majority of post-war birth rate boom generations reach retirement age. This, in turn, will lead to an increase in the burden of workers who have to provide social costs for a number of services related to the ageing population. According to statistics in Bulgaria, the ratio between working and pensioners is currently three to one. The forecasts reach that after 40 years this ratio will be 1.7 to one, and according to the forecast of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences after 10 years people over 80 years will be 7% of the population of Bulgaria by 2050, when it is said that people over 80 will be one tenth of all Bulgarians. That is, along with the demographic crisis, emigration, low birth rate, high mortality and so on is gaining speed and another problem for the Bulgarian nation. This changes the social structure of society, and there is no way that it can not be alarmed and put challenges to our economy, to our pension system, to the health insurance system, to the social support system, to our national security. And if today in large cities the others are already depopulated, there is still a lack of access in kindergartens, then now a serious and up-to-date topic becomes the topic of missing social services and any adequate policies for the elderly. Along with all of this in many of the Member States of the European Union, the impact of the ageing population is closely monitored, which will probably be of great importance in the coming decades, and policies related to the management of this trend are being identified and implemented. Bulgaria in this regard makes an exception or, if not an exception, we have a serious delay in implementing such policies. In view of these realities, targeted and focused work is required on the problem, which, due to its multispective, requires the commitment of the entire government and of all institutions. Therefore, my question to you, Deputy Prime Minister, as responsible for social and demographic policy and so on, in whose portfolio are the economic, demographic, social and related policies, is: what will be the policies and measures that the government will take in the short and long term, for creating conditions for decent living of the elderly and for their active participation in the economic and social life of the Bulgarian society?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, demographically ageing the population has emerged as a long-term and sustainable social process for the European countries, including Bulgaria. We are witnessing persistently established negative trends in the dynamics of demographic processes that substantially alter the socio-demographic structure of the population and pose serious challenges in the social sphere. The social support system, as the last protection network, will be increasingly busy to meet the growing social needs of social support to the ever increasing number of people in need of the elderly group. This means providing greater financial resources for social costs, respectively for social benefits. The social support system, based on the differentiated individual approach, also has the flexibility to respond to this challenge in the presence of the necessary funds and to fulfil its commitment to this risk group. It should be noted here that older people have always been a priority in the social support policy under way. They are granted easier access to various types of aid. A target energy support programme lays down the principle of non-retirement from support to pensioners only because of the regular update of pensions and an increase in the scope of persons within that risk group. For example, in recent regulatory changes, the greatest increase in the access threshold was regulated precisely for people over the age of 75 who live alone. This approach will also be applied in the future, because it is an important condition to ensure adequate social protection for those to whom we owe worthy care and support. In this regard, it is our responsibility to monitor the country's social economic processes and their impact on the everyday life of people, especially those of the third age, by betting on measures that have a sustainable character and are essential for achieving the objectives set in order to provide them with effective support. On the basis of this approach, we are constantly improving the legal framework of social assistance so that it ensures better protection for those who need the support of the state. The measures implemented in the field of social assistance are only part of the common mechanism for creating conditions for decent living of the elderly, which can only result in a positive result in interaction with the policies carried out in the field of income and social services. The government is looking for opportunities to raise pensioners' incomes. In this regard, the Draft State Social Security Budget Act for 2020 provides that from 1 July 2020, all pensions granted until 31 December 2019 will be increased by 6.7 per cent. From the same date and with the same percentage, the minimum pension for retirement and age as well as the social pension for old age is increased. As a result of these increases, the average pension amount of a pensioner in 2020 is expected to reach 412,28 BGN. 8 per cent nominal growth, and 5,8 per cent real growth compared to the expected level of 381,74 BGN. for 2019. In 2020 for the payment of pensions 10,576 billion were provided. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. more than expected costs in this year. The development of demographic processes, changes in the number and structures of the population have a strong impact on the main systems of the society. The economic, educational, health insurance, pension insurance, social protection system, labour market and others. Therefore, taking action to adapt sectoral policies to the ageing of the population is an important condition for the future economic and social development of the Republic of Bulgaria. Raising employment among older ones is a sustainable trend from 2012 to now. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, employment in people aged 55 to 64 grew by 15 percentage points from 45.7% in 2012 to 60.7% in 2018. In the second quarter of 2019 the employment rate for this group was 65%. It continues to reduce unemployment among adults. For 2018, the unemployment rate for people aged 55 and over is 4.4%. For the second quarter of 2019, the indicator value for this group is 3.5%. Unemployed people over the age of 50 are one of the priority groups in employment promotion policy. Targeted programmes and measures are implemented for them, including the National Programme "Help for Retirement" and measures under the Employment Promotion Act in support of unemployed people over 50 years of age and over 55 years of age by providing funds from the state budget for salaries, social and health insurance. The National Employment Action Plan has already been launched in 2020. By order No RD-01-614 of 30 September 2019 of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, an interdepartmental working group has been established, involving representatives of a wide range of state institutions, social partners and local authorities to develop the National Plan. The document will define the priority directions, actions, programmes and incentive measures to be implemented next year with a view to higher and better quality employment. In 2020, active work with unemployed people over the age of 50 will continue with a special focus on those without qualification and low level of education who have reached a retirement age or pre-retirement age or have a qualification that is not sought by employers. The support will be focused on several areas: providing a wide range of services tailored to the personal profile; motivating active behaviour on the labour market; mediating information and employment, at jobs announced in the real sector; participating in the Workseeker's Workseeker and Work Exchanges; participating in programs and training and employment measures; participating in Lifelong Learning (Study) to acquire the necessary skills, including digital skills, so that older people can adapt to change and stay longer at work; providing incentives for employers who provide employment to older people, and supporting labour market transitions. The long-term priorities in the employment policy of elderly people will be defined in the new employment strategy, which is being prepared by the interdepartmental working group of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The strategy is a key document that will direct the integrated efforts of state institutions, social partners and local authorities to better operate the labour market and provide quality and productive workforce according to business needs. Special emphasis will be placed on the policies for promoting and creating jobs in key sectors of the Bulgarian economy and increasing knowledge and skills, including digital skills, which will prepare people for the changing labour market. The planned measures will contribute to the active work life of older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u52	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for two questions, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for giving Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister the opportunity to answer a little longer, because the question is extremely important. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer so far. I'm going to look carefully at the transcript, because it's hard for me to systematize what you've given me. It seems to me that there is no complexity, systematicness and consistency in the measures that are being implemented. The ageing of the population in most cases, especially here in our country, continues to be seen as something negative, something scary, something unexpected that has happened to us out of the blue and this has become a cliché. Many of the elderly in Bulgaria are abandoned to fate, even their families, for financial reasons, fail to care for them. Without worrying, I say that we have turned Bulgaria into a country that pays attention mainly to the young and successful, in which there is nothing wrong, but the adults are left, if I may say so, to experience. According to Eurostat, about 2 and a half million Bulgarians, or nearly 35 percent of the people in Bulgaria, live in severe material deprivation. Among those living in extreme poverty, the highest rate of adults over the age of 65 is about 80% of them fall into the category of people with severe material deprivation. You were talking about pensions. The pensions provide most of the income of more adult Bulgarians, and for 90% of them the social security gives all their income. From 1 July 2020, the minimum pension will rise by 14.7 BGN. And from 219 leva. It will become BGN 234 and the social age will increase by 9 leva. From BGN 132 It's going to be BGN 141. The average will reach 412 leva. At BGN 381. at the moment, and all of that in a line of poverty, BGN 363. Thus, the minimum pension under the line of poverty is 130 BGN, the social pension is 222 BGN, and by no means perform their function of social protection and decent existence, but generate poverty. My additional question specified what is your vision, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for raising the incomes of elderly people? What is your policy in the direction of providing adequate services for elderly people who cannot handle themselves in order to free their loved ones who care for them so that they can be realized on the labour market?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, Bulgaria, as I mentioned, has made important strategic documents in the field of policies related to the ageing of the population. The Bulgarian Government seeks to take a balanced approach to ageing by promoting the activity of elderly people and simultaneously providing conditions for their full participation in the social and economic plan. The main strategic documents for meeting the demographic challenges in the Republic of Bulgaria, including ageing, are the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030 and the National Strategy for Active Ageing in Bulgaria 2019 - 2030, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers in March this year. The long-term strategic goal of ageing is aimed at creating conditions for active and dignified living of elderly people by providing equal opportunities for their full participation in the economic and social life of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor to express your attitude, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you again for your answer. I am sure that the problem of ageing the population lies with both you and the government as a whole. I'm sure you're struggling to overcome the consequences of this ageing. The countries across Europe are also fighting for this: which one is adequate, successful, which is more chaotic and unsuccessful. In our country, this problem seems to be not fully realized and we are fighting to overcome it and to alleviate its consequences as if rather chaotic and unsuccessful rather than otherwise. We fear that in a few, perhaps tens of years, there will be no one to pay the pensions of the current workers, not that the current pensioners, who with their labors have built Bulgaria, are provided pensions to give them an opportunity to live decently, although, while working, they have paid conscientiously in terms much larger than the current ones. However, the consolation is that there are pensions at all.. those who manage the state... are willing to pay them. We fear that our society will not be able to provide adequate care for so many pensioners and elderly people at all. And so far, it seems that our concern ends only with fear and concrete actions less. We forget that elderly people are a key human resource for society and economic development. They are a generator and a source of experience and knowledge. Inevitably Bulgaria's social policy in the coming years will be seriously influenced by the developing demographic processes and trends. Together with Europe, they are faster, we are slower following them, we are building the European social model. Within this model, serious attention is paid not only to issues such as extending labour life and maintaining activity, but also to issues such as intergenerational solidarity, providing quality long-term care for elderly people and ensuring a decent standard of living for those who are no longer involved in the labour market. But we're behind. We need a new vision for the care and social inclusion of elderly people. We need to radically turn society's attitude towards adults to view them as potential and not as a burden. We need to divide the policies in two directions and create conditions for a decent life, I am talking mainly about policies aimed at elderly people who cannot and are difficult to cope with life on their own; and secondly, creating conditions for their active participation in the economic and social life of the Bulgarian society of older people who have potential for it. Are we ready as a state to propose these policies? I don't think so. And that will put those who will rule after you in great difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. The next question to Deputy Prime Minister Mariana Nikolova is from the MP Pavel Shopov concerning the number and origin, as countries, of public working visas in Bulgaria of non-nationals of the European Union. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues, honored guests! About a year and a half ago, an amendment to the Labour Code was adopted, which caused many negative and sharp reactions. It was forced criminally, between the two readings of one of the latest amendments to the Labour Code, unexpectedly for the Bulgarian public and without debate. With this amendment, which was driven mainly by your predecessor Mr. Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister, it was dramatically increased the number of citizens from non-European countries, from third countries, to call them conditional, to receive work visas and to work in the country. This dramatically increased number of foreign citizens in many directions has a negative impact on the Bulgarian working market and on the Bulgarian economy. There was only one reasonable argument at that time for the adoption of such a proposal to make it easier for the Bessarab Bulgarians and Bulgarians from neighbouring countries to receive work visas, to come to the country, to integrate and, accordingly, with the prospect of taking Bulgarian citizenship. There was another legal solution to this problem. This could only be needed for these citizens, but not for citizens from nearby and very distant countries, which many of us may not have heard of, and which foreign citizens already see in Bulgarian cities. It's been a year and a half, and we have to start doing equal accounts and analyzing what happened back then, giving appropriate assessments of what's good, is it bad, and moving on to any legal changes in that direction. Our thesis by Ataka is [[the President signals that time has run out]] that the time has long since passed when gastarbytering has had a positive impact in some economies that was the 1950s and 1960s in Germany, in the Western European countries. Now it's not like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u61	My question to you is: what is the number of persons to whom work visas have been issued of this category of residents in our country, in which areas of work and what is their number from each country? On what basis is it very important that this is calculated and imported, in principle, to answer their contributions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u62	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, on the occasion of your question, the Employment Agency has provided access in 2018 to 1904 persons from 42 countries outside the European Union, third countries, including by single residence and work permit, blue card of the European Union, intra-corporate transfer, permission to work and permission to carry out activities. For the same period, short-term employment up to three months of 601 seconded third-country nationals was registered in addition, while registered seasonal workers up to 90 days were 8443. For the period from 1 January to 30 September 2019, access to the labour market has been granted to 2205 persons from 36 third countries. Short-term employment up to three months of 390 seconded third-country nationals and 10 820 seasonal workers are registered for up to 90 days. By sectors of economic activity for 2018 a total of 10 948 persons were admitted to the labour market in the following sectors: agriculture, For the nine months of 2019 are as follows: rural, fisheries and fisheries - 482; processing industry - 395; production and distribution of electricity and heat - 62; construction - 608; hotel and restaurant management - 11 051; creation and distribution of information and creative products - 266; culture, sports and entertainment - 133. The distribution by country of origin for 2018 is: Ukraine??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? For the nine months of 2019, the distribution is: Ukraine.. 9010, Moldova..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Since the comprehensive answer to your question implies quoting many numbers, I will provide you with a written and detailed table. [[Provides it to the MP Pavel Shopov.]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are no restrictions or differences in the obligation to provide foreign citizens active in the Republic of Bulgaria in Bulgarian insurance legislation. They are subject to insurance in the same order and under the same conditions as Bulgarian citizens and therefore enjoy the same insurance rights. The provisions of the Code on Social Security shall apply to persons authorised to reside and work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. They are necessarily provided for all risks of total illness and maternity, disability due to general illness, old age and death, accidents and occupational sickness, and unemployment, such as the income on which contributions are due, includes all remuneration, including accrued and unpaid or other income from work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nikolova. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. And thank you for the reference you're giving me. These numbers that you represent will be very important. On the basis of them, the topic must be developed and seen where we Bulgarians are on this issue, because it is neither patriotic nor it is right to lie to our Western European partners with this approach. This is the same thing. These are the people we protect with the wall not to enter Bulgaria, but in fact we legalize their presence in Bulgaria, their entry, their work in a legal way. I don't know what we're doing. But in our visions, in the Programme, which, as the United patriots, we developed before our voters, there was no such moment to give visas............................... to give visas................................................. to enter the country, and to work and integrate..... I mean by third countries, to create such legal opportunities. In Bulgaria it is already visible in the streets, it is seen in the cities, people with unusual appearances as well as clothing, and as an external expression, another type, other people are, they are beaten at first sight. Do you people know what they're called now? They call them Simeons because in his day, he was the one who wide open the door for this category of people. And the problems from now on will be in the future, in the decades, because these people enter the country, they settle down permanently, they get a job opportunity, they create families. The time will come when they'll start to get used to Africa from far away. [[the President signals that time has run out]] or the far southeast of Asia their families will become more and more.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u67	You see, in just a year and a half, there are thousands of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u68	Mr. Shopov, thank you. You've outdid a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u69	Up to 10,000 was the question from now on the problem will grow like a snowball, mark my words.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u70	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, douche bag? ▪ No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you for participating today. We are continuing with a question to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. A question from the MP Pavel Shopov about the share of Gypsy crime from the country's common crime. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honored guests! It was a time when crime data was being given in the country. There was a special share with a section in which it was being brought up in front of parentheses and reported the proportion of Gypsy crime, which we today call the domestic crime.... a euphemism, which we should finally get rid of and start naming things, as we in the Ataka have always named them, with their real names........................................................................... We remember that it moved in the last years of socialism and the early years of democracy within about 40% of all crime in the country. That was the cut. Data were also given by cities and logically the largest cities in absolute size... Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Ruse, Burgas, should have the largest number by percentage, and in absolute amount the number of crimes, but this was not the case. The largest number of crimes were committed in cities such as Sliven, Pazardzhik, where this population, we know, is a very large number. Why did you disappear from statistics? I think you as Deputy Prime Minister then, in charge of security and internal affairs in the country, can give us an answer to that. This indicator disappeared and is spoken abstractly, just like that, about crime, no one talks about Gypsy crime, it doesn't count. Is there any special statistics, if it is not public, because these are data on which to make reasoning, to draw conclusions, to make real strategies? Without this, we cannot take any serious action without knowing its size, share and structure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, National Statistical Institute and Ministry of Interior periodically publish statistics on crime, which is structured by gender, age of perpetrators. This is done because, as you know, the state pays special attention to juvenile crime and the necessary measures are taken there. I don't know who fooled you that there were ethnic statistics once upon a time. There was no such statistic. I've been talking about the last 30 years since we remembered each other as active people. What it was like in the '50s and '60s, I can't tell you. There have been no ethnic statistics for the last 30 years. Of course, that doesn't mean gypsy crime doesn't exist. In my experience as Deputy Prime Minister for Security, and even before that as MP, I have spoken repeatedly about these problems and have proposed appropriate concrete measures. At the moment, specifically to your question, what exactly is the statistics? Officially, there is no such statistics, but it is a public secret that there are entire regions in the country where exactly this crime that you are talking about is also domestic, but not all domestic crime is gypsy, as you say, because there are other perpetrators. In whole regions where illegal ghettos or illegal neighborhoods exist, the rate of such crimes of a predominantly domestic nature is high. If we add what we see in the last local elections just a few days ago, buying votes is also a crime, and in these ghettos and removing that percentage is the highest. Personally, I don't think it's necessary, and that won't solve our problem with this type of crime if we qualify it one way or another. Every police officer, every district inspector, every district department, every district directorate knows the areas of their territory in which this is the kind of crime that bully ordinary people. Mostly it's about robbery, theft, violence, disrespect of public order, including cases of assault against law enforcement officers, and you remember at the beginning of this year there were two attacks against soldiers as well. And since you're asking me about statistics, I'll tell you that statistics are important, but it doesn't solve the problem. The problem is solved by measures. I think it was very clear in the Vojvodino case, when he was beaten by such a group of people, that a serviceman showed how to act and what the state's policy should be. I have also developed and proposed a special concept for dealing with the problem or as it is said with the integration of the gypsy population in Bulgaria, because the current measures in recent decades do not give, I would not say necessary, and I would say any result. So this is, in my opinion, the topic.... what measures should be identified and what policy should be carried out? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Should the state continue to promote promiscuous birth rates, or should it introduce the principle of promoting literacy? Should he turn a blind eye to the newly created ghettos in various areas of the country, or should we act quickly and effectively? How to solve the problem of existing decades of such neighborhoods and neighborhoods? And so on, a variety of topics with which, if you like, you can get acquainted with the concept that I have developed and tabled for discussion and adoption by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u75	Mr. Karakachanov, we are used to you being very sharp, very explicit, very radical when you talk about this subject. Now from the National Assembly stands you were highly diplomatic. I have a feeling you're also worried about naming things by their real names, not being convinced of some ethnic intolerance, and you're talking like that with euphemisms. Soon, a candidate for mayor was talking about a criminal gang of vandals who picked up a shaft. We know what their composition was, he didn't say a bunch of gypsies who picked up the shaft, and you talked about it that way. For this concept or strategy is my word. What serious strategy can you make without having the output data? The base without knowing what the size of the disaster is? Because a moment ago, when I was talking about the Simeonians, it should be made clear from this reference to what the size of the disaster is, it's already starting to emerge. And this disaster, which we are talking about, about Gypsy crime, must be outlined with its parameters. You're the man in charge of this part as deputy prime minister, and as a patriot, we've intoxicated the world in the election campaign how we're going to definitely fight gypsy crime, make sure that this indicator gets into statistics. There once was this indicator, I worked with it when I was somewhere and I've seen these cases.. gypsy affairs. So it's not about the concept. It was for you election, and there are laws, there are regulations, there are rules under which a very successful fight against Gypsy crime can be carried out. Two and a half years you have suffered so far in this regard a complete failure. And because you have failed, you have absolutely failed in this effort that we from the United Patriarchs have commissioned you to carry out. [[the President signals that time has run out]] You invented the second year exactly the word strategy. See, we're making a strategy, and when we do, by accepting it, then, right, we'll deal with gypsy crime. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And since this strategy is clearly not going to be adopted, your dealing with Gypsy crime is being postponed. That's how it is, who can't handle the tasks, makes a concept, makes a strategy...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Your time is long gone. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u77	...brings in some general line, some new ideas, suggestions. And the laws are there, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u79	Go to the northeast of Bulgaria to see people scream...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u80	Mr. Shopov, your time is long gone, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u81	...what's happening to them. And then talk about concepts and strategies that are absolutely fictitious and pre-electional, propaganda and acquittal on your part.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u82	Thank you. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and not so dear Mr. Shopov! [[Laughter and lines.]] I am, however, on the stands of the National Assembly, not on the market, and therefore I speak in a language that suits this tribune and not in shopping mahlen mohabettes, as they say, and therefore I think I have been very clear, despite everything. I'll say again, there's never been such a statistic. Someone lied to you, or you just don't remember, I don't know. One. Secondly, unlike many people you worship, I have not changed my political beliefs, political parties, and I have always stood up for myself. Thirdly, I remember very well that when colleagues here from IMRO proposed measures to combat this particular Gypsy crime, you were not in the Chamber, not just you, but your entire group, by now independent MPs. If you had stayed more regular in plenary, you would have known what measures were offered, and if you were here to press and the buttons at least, they might have become reality. Fourth, when I introduced this strategy, I remember very well that your party television station of your party went to cover the abundant and irritable protests organized by a gypsy baron and Kiro the Japanese with representatives of purity, who with the brooms came to the Council of Ministers and you very much supported them. You supported them, I say! And you didn't support the concept I suggested. So the election is over, dear and not so dear Mr. Shopov, and it is good not to be so short-lived. Elections are over, and it's good to work more, to uphold principles, not to look for small Mahleni pickles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Asked Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov by the MPs Aleksandar Simov, Alexander Paunov, Georgi Gokov about the government's policy on countering the activities of foreign intelligence plants from countries of the European Union and NATO against the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, a spy affair has been playing in Bulgaria for some time now, related to the National Movement of Russia and the Russian Federation. On 9 September early in the morning, left-wing public officials were arrested and taken into custody in handcuffs. Then it turned out that of all the arrested only one was charged, and the rest became witnesses. From the so loud action of the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office of the Bulgarian became clear to him what is a spy under art. 105 of the Penal Code, which reads: "The person who is put at the service of a foreign state and of a foreign organisation to serve as a spy... is punished by imprisonment from five to fifteen years old. " Mr. Karakachanov, after your statement it becomes clear that there are other spies in the country who have put themselves in service to foreign countries and foreign organizations. Your exact words are as follows: "There are countries that are leading our allies, who are quite actively working in a similar direction, and there are countries that even expect our support for the European Union and NATO, who are also trying to carry out such activities. You neglected to say which countries you refer to and what evidence there is. Also, the prominent Atlantician Solomon Passy declares that there are also American spies in the Republic of Bulgaria, such as the difference between Russian and American is that American spies are engaging. It is clear from his words that there are also MPs who are in the service of Russian intelligence. Dear Mr. Karakachanov, as a power deputy prime minister, our question to you is: what is the government's policy to counter the activities of foreign intelligence plants from the countries of the European Union and NATO against the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, Dear Mr. Pawnov, Mr. Gokov! Mr. Simov, I don't see he's a co-worker of your question either. The Council of Ministers shall determine its policy on the protection of national security on the basis of timely and credible information on specifics and dependencies in the security environments provided by the relevant bodies. On the basis of this current information and in accordance with the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, the Council of Ministers shall, in accordance with its competence, determine national interests and priorities, draw up and adopt regulations, strategies, concepts, doctrines and action plans, determine the main tasks of the state authorities and structures under art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, implements and organizes the strategic planning, interaction, coordination and integration of the actions of the state bodies and structures under art. 3, para. 2, lays down the necessary resources for carrying out the activities to protect national security, the mechanisms for their management and spending, their distribution between state authorities and structures and controls their spending, controls the implementation of strategic objectives and priorities. According to the same law, the specialized structures DANS, DAR, NSO and Military Information Service are presenting annual reports submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly. It's like a communiqué and I'm officially reading it to you, as per the law. From your question, I understand that you are in fact more concerned about the activities of the Russian Federation or the Association of Russia than about national security. [[Heckling]] In what I said, I was very clear. However, you yourself know very well that this is classified information, which is impossible in parliamentary control, in an open session to be exported to the specifics. If the purpose is really to inform yourself further about what is happening, there are ways and this way is to request that this information be provided in the Specialized Committee at a closed meeting or to request a hearing of the heads of services or the analyses of the heads of the security services, also at a closed meeting of the National Assembly. I would remind you that in 2015 there was such a closed session in this Chamber, where a number of facts and data were exported. You understand that from the National Assembly stands, not only will I not do it, because I have no right, but because it would be irresponsible in an open session to release classified information to all media. And in terms of what I have said, I stand by my words, yes, there are countries that conduct such activities, and as status they are allied states. There are countries, other neighbouring ones, who expect and declare that they expect our support for membership in Euro-Atlantic structures and also carry out similar activities. However, the details of these things yourself understand that it is extremely unserious to be exposed in a meeting during parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Gokov, are you asking the two questions? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I assure you that I, Alexander Paunov, Alexander Simov, are not concerned about Russophiles, not about the Russian Federation, not about NATO, not about the European Union, but only about the national security of Bulgaria. In your interview, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you said exactly: "There are attempts of external factors to influence our internal policy. There are countries that are our allies that are actively working in this direction. There are countries waiting for our support for NATO and the European Union and doing the same. Thus, after the prosecution has launched a spy scandal with Russian involvement, you as deputy prime minister of security, if I may say so, have produced in the media a new scandal in which, however, so-called NATO allies and those who want to become our allies in NATO are accused. I say that's what they call it for explainable reasons. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are an experienced politician and the creation of such news is hardly an accident. I have the feeling that this statement of yours, with the claim of the presence of spies in our country, has been deliberately thrown into the public domain, without reference, without specific data which can be confirmed or refuted and so that no country or person can be identified in it and consequently not react, but, on the other hand, draw the attention of the public through the media and acquire, if I may say so, patriotic dividends. Wasn't this all part of the election strategy before the local elections, one spy scandal of the prosecutor's office and Solomon Passy's fairy tales to activate the right vote, and your fairy tales, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to activate the so-called patriotic vote?! And, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, do you think what you've done is harmless? Don't you think that as Deputy Prime Minister responsible for security and having information, but not taking any action, you are responsible? Do you not think that this works for the lack of trust in Bulgaria in the European Union and NATO, that it works for the division of the Bulgarian society, which after 10 years of membership of the European Union and more than 10 in NATO, is divided into........................................................................... these alliances?........................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, don't you think it's a civic duty and duty of every Bulgarian citizen who has information about individuals? [[the President signals that time has run out]] who issue or collect in order to issue to a foreign country or to a foreign organisation information representing a state secret, to report it to the prosecutor's office and not to make it public to the media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, to your questions, do you not think I answer: I think that if you were sincere and really cared and cared about the national security of Bulgaria, you would not read it as a pop gospel. You would say it in simple, human and heartfelt words to the House and to the entire public. I think you're actually using the occasion, as your question is from before the local elections, to have a political PR. That's what I think. And what I'm saying is exactly what I'm saying, and I'm going to give you some thought. There are external factors that are trying to use the topic minorities - ethnic, religious theme, some, of course, are using both Slavicism and brotherhood and Orthodoxy. There are such facts multiple. The D.A.'s office on some of them has filed charges. If you do not know, however, there are experienced people in your parliamentary group on the subject of security, they will tell you that this is not only an ancient craft, but a craft that you can analyse and extract information, sometimes you can hardly prove things. But the facts are there. Including attempts to create an ethnic party funded by external factors and so on. Don't you know that?! Of course, from the National Assembly stands there are no countries or persons, because, first of all, this would not cause a diplomatic scandal, and, second of all, I have no right to do so. And I gave you a hint as soon as I first answered, if you are willing to learn more information, you can request a closed session where the chiefs of services can report what it is about. Again, I say: in my opinion, this arises as your reaction, because your ideally close friend in any way, I do not comment rightly or unjustly, was affected; a bit like the Matrosov of the Ambrazur in defence of a foreign country. Don't do that! There are no party and ideological things here, there is a topic of national security. And I say again: you could say these things, not read them from the memorial, but you could say it from the heart and soul, if you were really sincere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For your treatment, Mr. Pawnov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u93	Mr. Karakachanov, dear Mr. Karakachanov, from the soul and from the heart, without reading, I will tell you a few stories. The leading politician in the European Union, French President Macron, says NATO is brain dead. I understand how difficult it is to work in this organization that has fallen into brain death. [[GERB lines.]] If there's anything you want to say, come to the stands. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Macron and I are on the same page. [[Noise and lines.]] It's clear why your leader said, "We're all parle vu French in this respect." [[Noise and lines.]] I would like to tell you that we are also in something else with Mr Macron in terms of the declaration that was adopted in this House to support Macedonia's entry into the European Union. Here, only three MPs have voted against it, because Mr Macron and I have pretty much the same opinion on this issue. Respect colleague Macron, who is leading NATO, because this is the only nuclear power since Britain's exit to Brexit. I therefore understand how difficult it is to fight the spy plants from the European Union and NATO. And I do not want to specify one country in the southeast because it is classified information, but I think, Mr Karakachanov, that really on this issue, instead of just dealing with the Russian Federation, it is serious to deal with the other spy plants that act on the territory of Bulgaria in order to protect the national security of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. This ended the participation of Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov "Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence." We continue with the questions to Ms. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. She will answer a question from Mr. Rumen Gechev about minimizing the losses for the Bulgarian economy from the bankruptcy of the tour operator Tomas Cook. I miss the answer to the question by the MP Boris Yachev, who is written about the declared bankruptcy of the British tour operator Thomas Cook. Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u95	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Dear Minister Angelkova, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, the recently announced bankruptcy of the British tour operator Thomas Cooke will put dozens of Bulgarian companies in a difficult financial position from the tourism business, will influence the intensity of traffic and the revenues of our airports respectively. Given the significant market share of Thomas Cook on our tourist market, the losses for the industry are measured in tens of millions of leva. The first bankruptcies of Bulgarian companies were announced. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following related questions: First, on the basis of what criteria have you chosen the tour operator Tomas Cooke as the main partner in the promotional campaign of your Ministry? Have you done any preliminary research on this choice? Which experts have recommended such a decision and what is the mechanism for making this decision? How many budget funds have been paid to Thomas Cooke in connection with this campaign? Secondly, does your management of the Ministry have an obligation to analyse and predict the development of tourist markets and accordingly to provide the results of them to our tourism companies? If there are such analyses, when and by whom have they been carried out, when and how have our companies been warned that Thomas Cook has been going bankrupt for years? Because there is no way that many publications abroad have not been noticed about the deteriorating financial situation of this tour operator, including the daily data on the collapse of their shares, especially in the last two years. Thirdly, the media reported that you had personal meetings, including this year with the Executive Director of What was the subject of this conversation, where and along with which experts of yours was conducted? When and with whom did you share the results of this meeting, since the meeting was just weeks before the bankruptcy announcement? What specific measures do you propose to minimize losses both financially and imagefully for Bulgarian tourism? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What personnel and structural changes will you make in your ministry, because it has not responded to the obvious signs of a well-known bankruptcy of Thomas Cook?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Minister Angelkova, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u97	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, you are asking me questions, whose answers are widely discussed in the public domain in recent months, as they directly concern citizens and businesses. However, it is the right place here to express my concern about repeated attempts to manipulate society by imposing a permanent thesis that the Ministry had information or should have foreseen the upcoming bankruptcy and therefore did not warn the representatives of the tourism industry. That's an absolutely false suggestion. On the contrary, even in July, there was an official announcement from the executive director of the tour operator that negotiations with Chinese investors were underway and this would strengthen their stable financial situation. Here's the letter. You can meet her. [[Shows the letter.]] You are also extremely well aware of the role of the state in economic and legal relations between economic entities. The main function of the State and the state administrative regulation is to provide favourable business conditions in which private activities are to be developed according to the legal rules under fair and fair competition. The powers of the Minister of Tourism are clearly described in the Tourism Act and they clearly do not involve interference in the inter-company relations of legal entities. The Ministry of Tourism does not exercise control over the activities of private legal entities of hotels, tour operators, traders, carriers, restaurants and others in the field of business planning, the structuring of their investments and the development of their commercial activities. The failure of the tour operator Tomas Cook is an event that does not fall under the control of the Ministry of Tourism. According to the Tourism Act, the tour operator established on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria annually enters into a contract for compulsory insurance. There are no requirements for the Bulgarian and European legislation to cover damages in respect of suppliers who are entirely in private inter-company relations. The Minister of Tourism and representatives of the Ministry of Tourism participate in various formats of international events which are public and are always reported on the website of the Ministry of Tourism, as well as respectively what happens at these talks. There we hold talks with a number of representatives of foreign administrations regarding the management of tourism, foreign tour operators, international leaders in this area. The advertising campaign partnership with major tour operators is an instrument with which countries use to increase and maintain the levels of the organised tourist traffic. All advertising activities are planned in the Annual Programme for National Tourist Advertising. Every year the Programme is discussed and adopted at a meeting of the National Tourism Council together with representatives of the tourism business, who have the opportunity through their united organizations to participate directly in the decisions for spending the advertising budget of the Ministry. In order to maintain a competitive level against the aggressive marketing policy of our direct competitors, we need strategic partnerships precisely with leading tour operators on the market. This is a practice that has also been adopted by our competitors - Greece, Turkey, Spain and many others. Given the factual situation at the moment, we have launched a number of international meetings. The Ministry of Tourism initiates measures to overcome the challenges and consequences of the declared bankruptcy, looking for opportunities to increase tourists to Bulgaria and cooperation to prepare the season of summer 2020. We discuss the opportunities for negotiating the next season and the circumstances after the end of the world tour operator's activities. To date, from the announcement of the bankruptcy of the tour operator, Tomas Cook. On 23 September 2019 all claims to hotel operators and tour operators regarding the stay of the tourists were covered by the insurance companies concerned in the UK, Germany and Poland. Our efforts minimized the opportunities for negative consequences and the image of Bulgaria as a tourist destination. And to date, for the first nine months of 2019 we have more than 7.8 million visits of foreign tourists in Bulgaria, which is a minimal drop of 0.8% compared to the record 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u98	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. Professor Gechev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleague Angelkova, your answer is absolutely unacceptable and I will tell you why. What are the facts? Month of March 2017 "Thomas Cook" Our selected partners, whom you did not say how you chose them, sells their air transports in Belgium. The lamp starts blinking red 2017. In February 2019. The Financial Times announced that the same company, Thomas Cook, started selling its business as a carrier. The month of March 2019 an entire Europe audience that "Thomas Cook" closes 21 offices and fires 300 people because it is going to bankruptcy. During this time contracts are being concluded, hundreds of Bulgarian companies are being pushed, they are losing millions. In May 2019 didn't you see that "Thomas Cook" your main partner, hired "Alice Partners" to make restructuring of the company and try to make financial recovery? It's all over Europe. In addition, on 17 May 2019 Bloomberg published the City Group's analyses that the shares of Tomas Cook are no longer worth anything and that their shares of your main partner that are sold, by the way, on the two exchanges that you are obliged to follow the exchanges in Frankfurt and London, are becoming cheaper than wallpapers, but you are not reacting in any way. Didn't you see in the Company's report, Madam Minister, that they have a debt of 1 billion. 600 million. Pounds and going bankrupt? I mean, look, coworker, no one would blame the Bulgarian Ministry for being empathetic to the bankruptcy of Tomas Cook and one of the oldest tour operators since the end of the XIX century, but the whole of Europe has published for years and months that the company is going badly, and you are making a contract with them as a major partner in promotion, which beats the Bulgarian business as well. We are talking about over 2000 charter fields that this company is carrying out. The losses are not only for the Bulgarian hotels, they are for the Bulgarian airports Burgas and Varna, they are for the Bulgarian producers of food and drinks for these hotels. So you didn't answer the basic questions: how did you choose this bankrupt company; who recommended it from the Ministry; did you transfer money to this company? Please come and say from the Ministry of Tourism: is it true that millions of dollars have been translated into Thomas Cook for promotion?! You didn't answer that question. And most importantly, I'm sure you'll do everything you can to compensate, I have no doubt about that, only it's too late, since the car has turned around and you didn't say anything about the Ministry itself. Do you have an analytical department in this Ministry? Do they read the Financial Times, do they follow the Frankfurt and London exchanges, which are our main partner, or do they talk about football and chop seeds? If I were you, I'd do something different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u100	The weather, Professor Gechev. I just remind you that the ministers are not our colleagues because the National Assembly elects them to these posts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u101	No, she's a colleague of mine because I'm a former minister, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u102	Ah, as a former minister, you may be a colleague. Here you are, Minister Angelkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u103	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, great dramatism, great suggestion, serious drama according to your speech, especially when we are talking about the financial and economic situation of the tour operator. In my speech I told you and informed you that we received an official letter from the CEO of the company not only in the Ministry of Tourism but also all the counterparties of the tour operator, I stress, private and legal persons who have private inter-company and commercial relations. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] Please don't interrupt me. In this letter, [[shows the letter]] In this letter... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u104	Please, no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u105	... it's clearly described. I guess you're reading in English, we've just learned in French, so I'll let you guys get to know each other. It is clearly written down what follows with regard to the financial situation of the Company, which is distributed to absolutely everyone in which it is said, I would consider it to you. [[Mister Nikolina Angelkova reads the letter in English, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u106	Minister Angelkova, the official language in Bulgaria is Bulgarian. Answer me, please. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u107	Which says... [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u108	Professor Gechev, please calm down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u109	...in terms of the company's stable financial situation. With regard to the speculation that this is the main partner of the Ministry on advertising, it is also not true. I explained to you that the National Tourism Advertising Program, which is adopted by the National Tourism Council, which has representatives of all institutions, including the tourist sector, discusses every activity the Ministry uses to promote Bulgaria as a preferred tourist destination. Everything is uploaded to the site, including the National Tourist Advertising Program itself. It is no secret and if you are interested, you can get acquainted in details and there you will get all the answers to the questions you are interested in. In addition, out of more than 9 million and 200,000 foreign tourists who visited the country last year, only 440 thousand tourists belong to the Tomas Cook Group. So I understand your idea of suggestion and false claims and manipulations, but these are the facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u110	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. There is no procedure for you to take the floor now, Professor Gechev. For the procedure you asked the word Mr. Ivanov to come in. [[(Reply from GERB:]] Wait a minute. In the manner of conduct, we may be able to hear what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u111	Madam President, honourable Members!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u112	There is a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u113	Tonight in Borovan municipality was arson of municipal councillor from BSP after subsequent threats, threats to vote [[speaking indistinctly]] for Chairman of the Municipal Council of GERB Party. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u114	Stay calm in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u115	I ask the Interior Minister to come to the stand here and explain what measures are being taken [[GERB lines]] To reveal the perpetrators. There is parliamentary control in a moment on which he will respond, but to respond to the stands what measures are being taken to reveal the perpetrators and preserve the privacy of life and health, and the property of this municipal councillor from BSP, who, again, has been threatened several days in a row to vote today for a certain chairman of the Municipal Council in Borovan municipality. Fired! It's part of your repression...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u116	Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u117	...in which you have harnessed the entire country and the entire criminal contingent, my dears! That's why I want the minister to answer here from the stands. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u118	The Minister of Interior will be here within the framework of parliamentary control. We continue with the answers to the questions that have been received. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I strongly object, Madam President, to allowing you, using the procedure, to make suggestions in this House on behalf of fellow Members. They're very fond of using all kinds of tribunes for such things, but that's not what this stands for. We have parliamentary control, we have a procedure that we need to follow, and I ask you very much to observe it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. In essence, the host cannot know exactly what he will want and what procedure the people's representative will benefit from. In any case, the Interior Minister will be involved in parliamentary control. We continue to answer the questions. Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the policy of the Ministry of Finance regarding the financing of water companies with majority state participation in capital. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u121	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Goranov, my question is dictated by the continuing decapitalization of some of the water companies that are part of the consolidated water service operators. Of course, and several cases that have come up in the media, for example in Pernik, in the electoral area from which I am, Shumen, where the current of the water company is about to be shut down, whether the Ministry of Finance, because this is the principal that distributes funds in the country, there is a policy that is in the direction of financing in some way, of course, with the permission of the European Commission, not to be illegal, such short-lived water companies, with majority state participation, which are in serious financial condition, because at least this is damaging the citizens. We would like to hear from you: are you predicting such a thing, whether in the next budget or this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister Goranov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u123	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have carefully followed the functions of the Minister of Finance and in them I have found no policy regarding the water sector, but after the formal response I will share with you what I think as elected MP and as appointed Minister. In principle, the management and financial performance of public undertakings are the responsibility of the relevant ministers who exercise the rights of the State in their capital. In their powers, they define and control the implementation of the sector-specific policies by the companies concerned and the State has operational autonomy on its current activity. The companies have operational autonomy regarding their current activity. In this case, the MRDP approves the business programme of companies for the period of three or five years, in the case of a development strategy and financial parameters ensuring the generation of positive financial results and improving the financial situation. The State, respectively the Ministry of Finance, has no obligation and a mechanism to finance public undertakings, including water companies with majority State participation, also to cover deposits or current losses, and/or to repay outstanding liabilities to public companies if they are in financial difficulty. Each case of a separate decision to grant such support must be in line with the budgetary capabilities and, of course, you refer to this and the State aid regime. Undoubtedly, the water sector, as a regulated sector, in places where inefficiencies and losses have been accumulated for years, is struggling. The Shumen Society is unfortunately one of those. In the case of accumulated infrastructure problems and years of ineffective management, without referring to what period, and the conclusion of disadvantageous contracts during the designated years of management and existence of this company has led to a relatively severe financial situation which, on the one hand, is objective because of the specific nature of the area, on the other hand, is subjective because of the quality of management in individual periods. In my opinion, and I am prepared to take part in such a debate with my colleagues at the MRRB, we need to achieve some mechanism for solidarity distribution of the efficiency of domestic drinking water supply. What do I mean? There are some water companies that, for natural reasons such as Burgas, a huge number of consumers in relatively small territory, with solid infrastructure and easy to maintain, achieve natural economies of scale and good financial results. Other water companies, such as Dobrichkoto, or in the case of Shumen, which, due to the specifics of territorial distribution, supply sources have quite other objective financial indicators, do not have the ability to deal easily with the principle of social tolerance of drinking water, i.e. in the case of social tolerability of the cost of water. I think it's right to think about it. This is my idea, I do not engage the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Government with it, but could we not think about the creation of some holding structure to help balance the redistribution of the effects of positive and negative in the water and water sector? And why not think about some solid component in pricing drinking water with which to build an investment fund where it is difficult for the particular trading company? However, they are commercial companies operating, of course, under the regulation of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. After all, people pay for their water and should have the economic model working so that these companies are viable. Moreover, all the funds we invest under the European funds require a sustainability and suggest such a business model of these companies, which will enable this infrastructure to continue to be maintained in the coming years, and without a fixed deadline, that is, investment in the water sector must be generated by the business model itself. I know about the problems especially in your election district in Shumen. We have commented on them repeatedly with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and I am ready to take part in a debate on a comprehensive reform or establishment of a mechanism for sustainable development of the water sector with ideas if one day it comes to such a solution and with mechanisms of state support. Again: there are companies that are good because they are objectively good and well managed. There are also those who, because of the human factor and accumulated mistakes, experience problems. I do not know if this answer pleases you, but this will not find a solution with one question and one answer, even more than the Finance Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u124	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Mr. Ivanov, come in, you have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u125	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I see you've come to know the themes and problems of the water companies. You may be aware that the financial situation of these already consolidated water service operators, which do not cover all, depends on the implementation of their projects under the Operational Programme. You've seen that a lot of you mentioned Shumen, have been drained over the years. Just to remind you that under your hat is the State Financial Control. I have not heard a single word from you when, at what point will the State Financial Control enter there, it will do what is necessary to establish the reasons for these violations, because I believe there are honest crimes, not only in Shumen, in Dobrich, in many other places, because they have allowed certain managers over the years to do all sorts of outrageous things. Let's hear from you when, at what point, because I'm making the commitment within a week you, if you don't activate your subordinates, I'm going to make a personal call to the D.A. to get in there and check it out, and see what kind of idleness it's been over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u127	I have no recollection, Mr. Ivanov, during the period when I am the Minister of Finance, that I have received similar information regarding the Shumen Water Company. As a Member of the National Assembly, consider that you have now referred to me and I will exercise my powers under the State Financial Inspection Act to impose an exceptional one. The results will be notified in the appropriate order. This does not revoke your right to refer to the law enforcement authorities if you think any violations have been committed that are composite.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in, you have a say in the matter. [[Heckling]] We're applying the questioning procedure, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u129	That's asking. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I, by the way, respect your expertise. You are competent on this subject. From the official Facebook profile of the Prime Minister I understand that you also have a personal proposal to solve the problem, especially in the Water and Water. I can let him hear it. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov released a recording from a mobile phone.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u130	Mr. Ivanov! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u131	I, because I believe in your expertise, really want you to apply this thing not only in Shumen, but everywhere. I don't know who that was for. To the chairman of the KEWRC or to me as the MP? However, if you have a working proposal, I suggest you put it into practice. In this regard, I'm giving you one of these. You can demonstrate to us, if you want, we can either get involved or you can do it further, or you can buy all the bosses of the VAC one of these ebony sticks. Thank you. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov gives Minister Vladislav Goranov an ebonite stick. It's a thrill. Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u132	We continue with the questions to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, who will answer a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev about the financial and economic effects for Bulgaria from the realization of the contract between Bulgartransgaz. Professor Gechev, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u133	Dear Mrs. Chairman, dear colleague Minister, honourable colleagues! On 18 September 2019, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 September 2015 to 25 September 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 18 September 2019 to 25 September 2020. "Bulgartransgaz" and the Saudi concern "Arkat" and "Arkat" have signed a contract to build the Balkan Stream" the pipeline that will receive natural gas from the Turkish Stream. The value of the contract is 1 billion. 102 million. EUR without VAT, and given other accompanying costs, the amount will exceed 3 billion. lv. The main part of the project's implementation costs will be incurred through "Arcat Engineering" from Saudi Arabia, and these investments will be paid from the collection of transit fees. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: according to your estimates what are the financial and economic benefits for the Bulgarian economy in the realization of this project? The answer to this question implies the submission of the next information. After what period will the investment from transit fees be paid, i.e. when will the transit fees remain available to the Bulgarian authorities in the sense and will not be opened to cover the loan by the Arkat? What are the agreed prices for the delivery of natural gas to Bulgaria or what is the agreed mechanism for determining these prices? In the agreed total quantities for Bulgaria is the contribution for providing supplies for the future development of our chemical industry and/or other industries, or is it taken into account only our current consumption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u134	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, the topic you are putting is very important and very relevant. I thank you for bringing this up to date at this very moment. As you yourself mentioned, in September this year the contract was signed for the realization of this extremely important project - Balkan Stream, which will enable Bulgaria to retain its strategic location on the gas map of Europe. This, I dare say, is one of the main advantages of this project and one of the main effects for Bulgaria, and in the very long term. Here I use this case to thank all MPs from all parliamentary political forces for supporting us in the update of Bulgaria's Energy Strategy by 2020. This project was included in our energy strategy as a project that is extremely important strategic for our country. Now specifically to the questions that you have asked. Firstly, in terms of specific effects. Perhaps we almost made a retrospective with regard to the revenues that are being realised at the moment. The realised revenue from natural gas transport to the borders with Turkey, Greece and Macedonia under the ongoing long-term agreement with the 2018 Gazprom exports amounted to 203 million. lv. Revenue of 161 million was made in the nine months of 2019. BGN, expected to reach 216 million. lv. by the end of 2019 For the period of operation of the existing long-term contract until the end of 2030, it is envisaged that the total revenue from the user is estimated to be 908 million. lv. In addition to this revenue of 908 million, lv. under contracts concluded for the reservation of capacity at entry points at borders with Turkey and Serbia, after completion of the infrastructure by Bulgartransgaz is expected to receive revenue of 385 million. lv. The terms of the contracts concluded provide for an annual indexation of capacity booking tariffs by which they will be updated in accordance with the economic situation. In this regard, the calculations made for a 20-year period of operation of the new infrastructure, this is the period for which we have a firm reserved capacity by the "Gszprom" and another trader, show that it will bring revenue to the transmission operator of a total of more than 9 billion. BGN, which is the period for which, as I have already mentioned, there are signed binding contracts for reserve of capacity with network users. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the newly built infrastructure has a useful economic life which significantly exceeds the 20-year period under consideration and that of the linear infrastructure is approximately over 40 years. Taking into account the fact that the infrastructure will be used and after the 20-year term of the current capacity booking contracts, the revenues from the constructed infrastructure will exceed more than 20 billion. 750 million. lv. With regard to the prices of natural gas for the Bulgarian market of imports under the current contract, you know that they are formed on the basis of a specific formula, a specific methodology by which they are calculated. You know that the European Commission and the Gszprom reached an agreement on the anti-monopoly case, with one of the commitments relating precisely to signing additions to those long-term contracts that countries have, like ours, so a supplement was signed, on the basis of which new prerequisites for re-negotiating the price with regard to the natural gas supplied. In relation to your next question concerning this, are the quantities necessary for the chemical industry and for industry in general? Yes, such quantities, of course, are provided. They are provided annually. In September, we amended the Energy Act and, in fact, from December this year, the Bulgarian Natural Gas Trade Exchange started acting, so the market is liberalized and every single consumer will be able to meet their natural gas needs entirely on a free and market basis. Thank you, and I apologize, Madam President, for delaying the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Professor Gechev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u137	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! First of all, I would like to explicitly stress, on the one hand, congratulations on the fact that we did not fall off the train and managed to realize at least part of the transit of natural gas through Bulgaria. I have always said that the problem is not the transit fees we collect, but the pros are precisely in the opportunities for providing raw materials for possible expected by all the revival and expansion of the Bulgarian chemical industry, machine building based on the highest environmental standards. That's why I asked you that question. I thank you for your answer. There will be other questions in subsequent periods, but two things: First of all, Madam Minister, it's not just up to you, but there's a weirdness here. The project is implemented by a state-owned company in Saudi Arabia. It finances Bulgartransgaz. It invests on a credit basis at an interest rate of 4,25%. You should have asked the Minister of Finance why he holds almost 2.5 times the fiscal reserve of interest, which is practically negative, including the Bulgarian state holding foreign reserves at negative interest, or interest a little by one or two thousandths above zero? Didn't the Bulgarian state, your government, borrow 1 billion this year. lv. And bragging that the interest rate was 2.20%? My point is, where's Kiro in Kira? We hold fiscal reserves of zero and negative interest, we take loans of 2.25% and instead of the Bulgarian state, such as Germany, France, Italy and others, to be a co-investor with funds that you would pay, even if they were loan funds of 2.25%, we invite here a company from Saudi Arabia, which will take a profit from Bulgaria and collect you know what the difference in interest rates is? ..about 200 million, which we object to. The decision could have been different. Secondly, I don't want to go into specific numbers, as some of them are hypothetical.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u138	You don't have time, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u139	I'm graduating. But we all know that the bill we earn, or, God forbid, we lose, will come out of what will happen to the transit fees on the pipeline, which will most likely not be used in its full capacity after 1 January 2020. Hopefully not! But there passed 13 billion cubic meters of gas, and to say that in fact this tube, which continues through Bulgaria, is for 17 billion cubic meters... We've missed 60 billion, we're going to 17 billion!? However, something better than nothing, but in fact our question is: what will happen to the revenues on this pipe, where we have invested funds and where we will wait for the other side to fulfill its commitment, because it is not 100% certain? I hope not! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u140	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev, first of all, it is important to emphasise that the company is a commercial company. It is an independent operator of our transmission network and infrastructure and, as such, strictly implements all European regulations governing the status of this type of operator. The first and basic principle is related to its independence and to external interventions by the State or other companies. "Bulgartransgaz" conducted a public, transparent procedure for selecting a contractor in relation to the realization of this extremely important project. The terms of the contract were clear and made public and clearly stated in them how the funding will be raised for the implementation of this project. Apart from this, state aid legislation.. both our national and European is extremely strict in terms of what conditions and in what competitive environment similar projects are implemented and similar companies receive the appropriate funding. We have respected all European requirements, our national legislation, so that the project is implemented under all these really very important conditions. With regard to the capacity used by the existing infrastructure, I can clearly say that everyone needs to be calm, and you especially, because, as the European rules provide, when releasing capacity from the current infrastructure, our operator is obliged to tender for its use. So if there's infrastructure, it can't be left unusable. There are many options. Apart from that on this infrastructure, for part of it we will continue to receive the transit revenues in relation to supplies to Greece and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, so the economic analyses are indeed very good. Once again, thank you for supporting the change in the Strategy and we will have the opportunity to implement this project and take advantage of its economic effects for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u142	Allow me to thank Mrs Temenuzhka Petkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Mladen Marinov, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u143	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u144	I won't give you the floor of procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u145	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u146	He will answer first of all a question from the National Representative Aleksandar Paunov concerning the uninformed meetings of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u147	On behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u148	Wait, when we have finished answering this question, I will give you the floor for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u149	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, my question concerns the work of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers, whose chair you are. This committee under the Disaster Protection Act directs and controls activities to provide targeted funds from the Republican budget to finance emergency disaster recovery work. As chairman of this committee, in accordance with its rules, you organise and manage its work. The Commission shall hold periodic meetings to be convened and managed by you. Regular meetings shall be held once every three months and, where necessary, extraordinary meetings shall be held at your discretion. These are regulations. In my meetings in the country and in recent months, more and more citizens are asking the question: why in this year, with so many rains and floods causing serious damage, the Commission for the past nine months when I asked the question was only one meeting, and you do not require three of these in accordance with the Rules of its work? This greatly worries the population and the municipal authorities in the affected areas because without the financial resources being allocated, there is no way to recover the destroyed infrastructure sites. Moreover, the necessary funding requirements have been submitted in a timely manner to the Commission, but the financing will clearly be delayed. It is worrying that winter is coming and the remaining months and a half will be insufficient to carry out the relevant procedures under the Public Procurement Act and as a season will be unfavorable for construction. This is clearly not taken into account by the Commission. My question to you is as follows: why have the scheduled regular meetings of the Commission not been held in accordance with its rules of procedure and will you ensure that this happens as soon as possible? Will you make sure that such gaps are not allowed in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u151	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Pawnov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In accordance with art. 8, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers and Art. 30, para. 1 of Decree No 344 of the Council of Ministers of 21 December 2018 on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. The Commission is responsible for accepting proposals for spending funds from the reserve for unforeseen and/or urgent expenditure. The reserve shall be spent on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers on the basis of art. 43, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. For the first six months of the year, a meeting was held at which the Commission adopted a proposal to spend funds from the contingency and emergency reserve of 33 million. 123,000. 981 lv. The proposals were approved by Decree No 96 of the Council of Ministers of 25 April 2019. During the following months, no meetings were held, as two more acts of the Council of Ministers "Event No 141 of 6 June 2019 and Decree No 165 of 3 July 2019 were spent just over half of the budget, or 41 million. 123,000. 981 lv. Out of a total of 80 million lv. A second meeting was held on 4 October. A procedure is currently under way for the adoption of a draft decree approving the Commission's proposals from the meeting. By the end of the year, the Commission is scheduled to hold another meeting to examine the possibilities for spending the remainder of the contingency and emergency reserve in 2020. In this case, it is important to note that regular and extraordinary meetings are regulated in art. 4, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers without the existence of rules for determining the number and time of meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Pawnov, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u153	Dear Minister, I am not pleased with the answer, because each quarter should be held in one session and the corresponding amounts should be allocated to the municipalities. I repeat that I am not satisfied with your reply because within the nine months you had to hold three meetings and three quarters of the amount to be allocated to the municipalities. You know how many disasters and accidents there have been. Many municipalities have made demands, and I have to tell you a specific example. For example, in Cherven Bryag for the bridge that fell there, a sum of about 200,000 was allocated and it was repaired. The next amount to be paid is about 700,000. The company that did the repairs, sued the city and blocked funds. The new mayor who's gonna go in there is gonna go into blocked accounts. What remains until the end of the year is a month and a half, and two more meetings must be held. There is the corresponding financial means, and I believe that you, as Minister of the Interior, a disciplined person, really need to transfer this money to the municipalities, because there are not so many, and it is not necessary to wait for the end of the year. You can see that winter is coming and there is no way to do it, and there is no way in this cold weather to do these repairs. I therefore believe that these meetings must be held regularly so that municipalities can receive the necessary funds, because these are disasters and accidents, it is difficult to predict, and this money is intended for this very purpose. I believe that from now on you have enough opportunity for these meetings to be held regularly and to be effective for the next year as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u154	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u155	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Pawnov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As I pointed out, after the first Commission meeting, there were two acts adopted by the Council of Ministers in which a total of 8 million were allocated. lv. Six million leva were essential for fighting hails. You know that this was a serious problem and action had to be taken to ensure agricultural production. Two million leva were allocated to combat mosquitos along the Danube, as it was also extremely necessary. In my statement, I said that a second regular meeting of the Commission took place on 4 October. There are the percentages of the funds left. The Commission's practice is, and I think it is right, because, after all, by the end of the year, as you said, a winter season is coming, there must remain some reserve that can be spent in the event of bad weather and weather conditions so that it can be reacted immediately, so this reserve is left for the end of the year. All proposals will be reviewed at the Commission's last meeting. I believe that, especially for the municipality of Cherven Bryag, during previous meetings, we have allocated funds specifically for this bridge. We will continue to grant, as funds are usually allocated to municipalities at the Commission's final meeting, as they can transfer the budget for next year in order to absorb them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Minister Marinov wanted to take the floor to answer the problem. Mr. Svilensky, you want a statement on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u157	Thank you, Madam President. You provoked me for this statement or declaration, or whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u158	You have no right to procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u159	Rules of Procedure, you know very well that upon request of a procedure in the manner of conduct, it must be given immediately, but whatever. Now I will have 10 minutes to tell Bulgarian citizens what is happening in European Bulgaria in 2019 when a municipal councillor should not vote in a manner defined by GERB. Mr. Minister, in the country where you are Minister of Interior, last night the property of a Bulgarian citizen was set on fire, elected municipal adviser by the Bulgarian Socialist Party, who for a week was forced not to attend today's session of the Municipal Council or, if present, not to vote for BSP's proposal for Chairman of the Municipal Council. And because he didn't agree, his property was burned down tonight. The wish that we had from our parliamentary group is to inform the Bulgarian citizens and the present MPs what measures will be taken from today on the Ministry of Interior for the Security of this and every Bulgarian municipal councillor who is forced to vote under a donation to GERB, or any other political power and which, unfortunately, then burns properties, or some more serious crimes. In the entire campaign BSP warned that GERB used the entire machine of the state to ensure the electoral process that the Ministry, which you are leading, has made a lot of efforts in this direction. They were exported and will be exported to Gorna Oryahovitsa and other settlements where you, apart from ensuring the election victory of GERB, have made absolutely no effort to prevent the 6 thousand bought votes in the region of Slatina, sq. For Mrs. Yordanka Fandakova and the regional mayor of the region of Slatina When you explain that with 6 thousand votes the mayor of Sofia is not elected, however, I would like to tell you that with 3,000 votes the mayor of Slatina is elected or in other areas where there is such a compact population where GERB and the Ministry, led by you, have made a lot of efforts to ensure the comfort of local elections. However, today is another topic, the topic is the attack on our municipal councillor, the topic is the security of Bulgarian citizens, as it is not only in Borovan but in the whole country to form municipal councils. Is this how the political party GERB will terrorize the Bulgarian municipal councils for the election of president, which they are comfortable with? And will the Ministry of Interior continue to watch, watch, tolerate or support only when it pleases the governors of GERB? Indeed, Minister, I ask you to take an attitude. It is more important to take measures from now on to ensure the security of every municipal councillor, not to pressure him with the freedom he has, to vote as he sees fit, and not as the governors of GERB tell him. Thank you. [[Reply from MP Emil Hristov to MP Georgi Svilenski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u160	It was a declaration on behalf of a group. Mr. Christov! Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u161	Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Specifically about the case Mr. Ivanov asked: during the night in Borovan, the front door of a Borovan citizen's garage was lit. The fire didn't destroy the door, it didn't burn, the motor vehicle wasn't destroyed. However, I would like to address Mr. Svilenski's declaration, as it has made many suggestions that are not supported by evidence. I can assure you that on both tours, and previously the Ministry of Interior has taken absolutely all measures to ensure a good public order for the production of local elections. Regarding the criminal act in Borovan this evening, I can tell you that during the entire election campaign we have several such attacks, including the candidate mayor of GERB, including the candidate mayor of IMRO, so I do not want the Ministry of Interior to be brought into political debate for this reason. We are objective and every such act is investigated in accordance with our powers and objectively. I have ordered the Director of the District Directorate Vratsa, specifically for this particular case. At the moment, he assured me that they were working on an investigation into the scene of the crime, concerning physical evidence from him, working with possible suspects and the victim of that act. Again, I assure you, the Ministry of Interior is absolutely objectively addressing every such case, as well as every Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u162	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov on the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Sofia District to ensure the holding of local elections 2019 on the territory of the municipality of Pirdop. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and your employees on their professional holiday! Mr. Minister, what measures did the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior take in the area of Pirdop Municipality in the fight against the purchase and sale of votes? Are there signals, what is their number and what actions have been taken? Have any additional measures been taken after the signals received? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u164	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Minister Marinov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u165	Dear Madam President, Mr. Kirilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for congratulating the Bulgarian police officers. Indeed, today is a celebration for which they deserve to be greeted and respected. In connection with guaranteeing the legality of the preparation and holding of elections for municipal councillors and mayors on 27 October and 3 November 2019 by order of 13 September 2019 in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, an operational headquarters for the management of forces and funds involved in ensuring public order and security was established. During the preparation for local elections were held workshops with the District Prosecutor's Office Pirdop. The meetings discussed the operational interaction in countering the crimes related to the electoral process, as well as carrying out timely checks of the complaints received and signals of violations. An additional organization has been established in the Regional Directorate to provide methodological assistance and control by senior officials. A support group has been set up at the Regional Police Department. During the period 1 October to 5 November 2019 in the Regional Police Department "Pirdop" 11 signals were received for violation of the electoral process. A timely inspection has been carried out in each particular alert and the relevant prosecution has been notified. Four of these investigations have already been ruled out by the prosecution by refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings. According to the checks of the other seven signals, the prosecution has not yet spoken. According to the analysis of the operational situation and the signals received for violation of the electoral process, additional teams of employees of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior were created, and the territorial sectors of the Ministry of Interior. On 2 and 3 November 20 employees of the Department of Gendarmerie were assigned, which together with the other police officers guaranteed public order and did not allow crimes and violations to be committed during the election day. Since your question was asked me between the two rounds, I suppose the measures were sufficient and no public policy violations were allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marinov. You won't take advantage of your right to a line, Mr. Kirilov, which means there won't be a double. We continue with the next question asked by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior for ensuring the implementation of local elections 2019. Here you are, dear Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u167	Thank you, Madam President! First of all, today is November 8th "Day of the Bulgarian Police." Happy Thanksgiving! I congratulate all employees with proven high professionalism, providing public order, security and peace of mind for citizens despite the difficulties and challenges! My question to you, Minister, is about the work of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, to ensure the implementation of local elections 2019, namely what measures were taken by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Dobrich and the Regional Administration of the Ministry of Interior in the area to ensure compliance with the Law and to combat the purchase and sale of votes? How many reports of violations have been submitted and what actions have been taken? What imposed the personnel changes in the police districts of the Ministry of Interior immediately before the elections "Study Department" "General-Toshevo," Balchik, Kavarna?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u168	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Minister Marinov, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u169	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! At the risk of repeating myself at the beginning, but because for absolutely every regional directorate the measures are the same, in relation to ensuring the legality of the preparation and holding of elections for municipal councillors and mayors on 27 October and 3 November 2019, specifically in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, a relevant action plan has been drawn up and according to the plan operational headquarters have been established in the territory of the Directorate, as well as teams for work with signals related to violation of electoral legislation and crime against citizens' political rights. On the basis of this plan, measures have also been taken in order to protect public policy. In the course of the campaign and the election events an organization has been established with orders from a single establishment for the implementation of patrol action and traffic control. The Regional Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population (SOC) in Dobrich has carried out checks on all premises in which election committees are housed and the electoral papers and materials are kept. For security of the premises were appointed 24-hour posts by police officers, a permanent security organisation was established at all polling stations in Dobrich district. An enhanced police presence is provided for safe movement and reporting of electoral papers and materials from sectional election committees, municipal election committees. In accordance with art. 8 of the Ministry of Interior Act were conducted operational and search activities for the prevention and detection of a crime under Chapter 3, Section 3 of the Criminal Code, as well as for the establishment of persons willing to carry out this type of criminal activity. In the order of art. 65, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act has been warned 70 persons with data and it can be assumed that they will commit crimes against electoral legislation. For the period of preparation and holding of local elections in the District Directorate of Dobrich, a total of 67 signals for violation of the electoral process have been received. All of them have been inspected by officers of the Directorate and of the respective district governments in the implementation of instructions of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria from 21 October 2019. The checks of all signals have been completed and reported to the respective district prosecutors. At the moment, six of them have been initiated pre-trial proceedings and 12 other prosecutors are expected to be pronounced. I will make a comparison: in approximately the same number of calls, 60 people who entered the District Directorate of Dobrich, no pre-trial proceedings were formed during the local elections in 2015. In today's elections, we have six pre-trial proceedings. As for the personnel policy and the composition of the interior ministry units in the country, I can assure you that this is planned and subordinate to the Ministry of Interior Act, which is irrelevant to the electoral process in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u170	Thank you, Minister Marinov. Mr. Yankov, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the most serious problem of the Ministry of Interior is the problem of competent management. The appointment of appropriate personnel, their training, their monitoring, control, career growth throughout the management sense as a cycle in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, in the first place, and in the Directorate General of the Ministry of Interior, must be subject to the Minister and his team. When there is no concept and understanding of the necessary knowledge, habits and skills to guide this strictly hierarchical system, do not expect the regular composition to perform its functional duties. What do I mean? You said, "One and the same measures have been taken." Conceptually, there are basic events and measures to be taken, but in each area there is a specificity. For this specificity, you should also be informed of what measures, according to this specificity, take the lead of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and the respective police districts. You say, "70 persons under art. 65 with the warning protocols. And did you care if there was concentration in a particular community? Take a look! The Ministry of Interior of these elections was used within the meaning of the possibilities to insinuate that the state, using the repression in the face of the Ministry of Interior, could influence the Bulgarian citizens. That's why I warned you in a hearing long before the elections, of the opportunity given under blitz control. At the Commission's first meeting, I once again pointed out to you that you entrusted the Ministry of Interior with, of course, through your Secretary General, a mechanism of work which allows this to happen on the premises of the Ministry of Interior to respond to signals, without being checked and without using the possibility of the Ministry of Interior, the information in the Ministry of Interior, the regional inspectors to [[the President signals that time has run out]] be engaged preventively and to cross any possibility to speculate by sending signals. They can also be dishonest, can also be between political opponents. This is what I observed in the elections in the eight municipalities in the Dobrich district. I draw your attention to the management, the management of the Ministry of Interior, which is your responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Minister Marinov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u173	Madam President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yankov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! By the same measures, Mr. Yankov, I meant that the necessary orders were drawn up, the necessary headquarters were created and the procedure was defined, which will check all signals with a view to achieving objectivity throughout the country. Of course, this always implies taking into account the specifics of the specific area on the basis of an analysis of the operational situation, received signals from previous elections and all that includes as an indicator of an analysis of the operational situation. With regard to the verification of signals, I think it is this organisation that creates and enables objectivity in the verification of each signal. The Ministry of Interior has no way of controlling the transmission of signals and should not control the transmission of signals, our task is to give maximum opportunity and channels for the submission of such signals, to verify them objectively, including under the supervision of the prosecution and the third thing is to check all signals. That and we ended up in those two days in the election. Signals were naturally received in a different specific, some of them entirely common. I will give you an example: some-where you buy votes, which you yourselves understand that no specifics can be checked, but a check has nevertheless been carried out as to whether additional information can be obtained, to specific signals on which I have introduced you that there are also relevant pre-trial proceedings. Currently, there are also persons with permanent measures, not in Dobrich's territory, of another regional directorate, who are taking a permanent measure by a court in connection with violation of the electoral rights of citizens. In terms of personnel security. In the Ministry of Interior system this is regulated by specific regulations, law and procedures that give objectivity in the selection and growth of personnel in the Ministry of Interior system. The competition's all over. I'll give you the specifics for Dobrich. The following personnel submitted applications for this reason were made at the Regional Directorate of Dobrich. For leaving on grounds of art. 226, para. 1, t. 4 of the Ministry of Interior Act of its own accord, two employees; submitted an application for reassignment within the management positions of the vacant post by one employee "reassignment" in the structure of the district directorate. In view of the changes made to the applications submitted by employees, proposals have been drawn up by the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and by a ministerial order have been temporarily reassigned to the vacant management posts of two employees until a contest has been announced and held by the holders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u175	Head of the precinct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u177	We continue with a question from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov concerning the security of Hall "Arena Armeec" on the election night of 27 versus 28 October 2019. Here you are, Mr. Chukolov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! On October 27, this year, when it was the first round of local elections in the party headquarters, we received numerous reports of violations throughout the day by members of the sectional election committees. Even at the eighth school it was necessary that our representatives and I, including the chairman of our party Mr. Siderov, should visit this section in the eighth school, to witness how a representative of the DPS, a member of a sectary commission, runs along the corridors and creates panicking moods for earlier allowing himself to pull the ballot out of the hand of our candidate for municipal councillor and play with it lightly and put it in the box. Absolutely unacceptable behavior! Those signals are getting heavy. At the end of the election day, after the election day, I, Mr. Siderov, candidate for mayor of Sofia, a number of candidates for municipal councilors from the party "Ataka" and other MPs from our party, headed and visited Hall "Arena Armeec." There we were met by more than 20 police officers, led by Commissioner Nikolay Nikolov, as he presented himself, who turned out to be the Deputy Head of the Department of Police Specialized Police Force for Protection and Restoration of Public Order. There was no disorder of public order, nor was his recovery required. We introduced ourselves to Commissioner Nikolov, explained what we are here for and also what powers we have. No answer followed, no arrogant behavior followed! Arrogant behavior and a statement from him that we have no right, we cannot be admitted to the Arena Armeec Hall. Nor did he ask: "Which one of you has the relevant document for an observer?" Who's the warrant from? The answer to this question was SMS. Who's the text from? Anonymous text. That was his answer, that was his arrogant behavior. Therefore, my questions to you are: who has ordered this illegal conduct of the police and has there been a warrant for this conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u180	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Chukolov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In relation to the competence of the Ministry of Interior with regard to the legal conduct of the electoral process, the President of the Central Election Commission Mrs. Stefka Stoeva and the district governor of Sofia-city Mr. Nikolay Pehlivanov have requested assistance from the Ministry to ensure the security of municipal electoral committees and the Central Election Commission. Security was requested for the period from 7.00 a.m. in the days of the first and second round of local elections until the final acceptance of election papers and materials by municipal electoral committees. On the basis of an order of 11 September 2019, such security was provided in Hall "Arena Armeec" in the capital because there works the Municipal Election Commission for Sofia. The actions of the employees of the Sofia Directorate of Interior for Security of the site were carried out in coordination with the Chairman of the same Municipal Election Commission. For this purpose, the relevant plan has been prepared and validated. According to him, a security area has been established around the hall of Arena Armeec. In accordance with the instructions of the President of the Municipal Election Commission, only representatives of the sectional election committees and vehicles transporting the election papers are allowed in the security area. According to a decision of the Central Election Commission, the delegated by art. 431 of the Election Code of Rights for direct visibility when counting votes do not apply to the presence of candidates, advocates, party representatives, coalitions, initiative committees, the Municipal Election Commission, which accepts election papers from the election committees. Those direct visibility and presence rights shall apply only to the selection committees in which the vote itself takes place. Therefore, candidates and representatives of parties, coalitions and committee initiatives have been denied access to both the premises of the Municipal Election Commission in the Hall of Arena Armeec and to all the premises in which election committees across the country have accepted electoral papers and materials. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of all citizens is a fundamental principle in the activities of the Ministry of Interior, and all the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who have participated in the security of municipal electoral committees and of the Central Election Commission, have fulfilled their obligations in ensuring the proper conduct of the electoral process and the transmission of election papers by the selection committees in accordance with and in continuous coordination with the Central Election Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u181	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u182	Dear Minister, just a few days ago from another candidate mayor of Sofia it became clear from his words that his observers were admitted to the Arena Armeec Hall. Again, it is apparent that such observers were not admitted from the attack. Here the security that your employees exercised, just, how can I say, was unnecessary, because the usual insinuations of the mass public, that "Attack" again wanted to bump into someone or interfere with something, are not true, because we are a party, we are people who want to protect both their interest and the interest of those who voted for us. I'm going to say a few words to you now. From 2005 until now, I have labored these days to consider it, the party "Attack" has participated in 15 national elections for both the National Assembly and local authorities, for presidential elections, for European elections. In total, the campaigns we have worked on are about twenty. Twenty campaigns have taken place in these years and we know the Code of Election very well. Since 2013, I have bothered to count, there have been 15 amendments to the Election Code in which we have participated. Before 2013, there were a lot of changes that I didn't even count. Again I tell you, there were Mr. Siderov, me and Mr. Shopov as MPs who make this Election Code and very well know how to work on it, and there is one thing that is called the Law of the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, voted by this Chamber. It's a rule of law. One hundred and forty-one members of this law say the following: The State and local authorities and their administrations are obliged to cooperate with the National Representative and to provide him with information and documents upon request. The Member of the National Assembly shall have the right of access to state and local authorities and organisations. Today is Arahangelovden and Orthodox Christians honor the memory of St. Aragangel Michael, but today, at your feast, I want to tell you that this is a law. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Tell your employees that this law must be respected. One indication of the member of the Central Election Commission or of the Municipal Election Commission...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u184	...but the law is the law and must be respected. We didn't go there for any pleasure of our own. We've gone to seek justice, like St. Aragangel Michael.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. You're way out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u186	It is very important that I know that I exceeded it, but I must say this: obey this law!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u187	Okay, so we're done. Thank you. Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u188	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Chukolov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Police officers who have performed their duties around the Hall of Arena Armeec and who have done just that they have strictly complied with the law. In this case, as I pointed out in the reply, in continuous coordination with the President of the Municipal Election Commission, with the CEC. Their actions are dictated by the orders of the President of the Municipal Election Commission, who has the authority to give such orders, and police officers are obliged to carry them out. I want to turn to you and say that you shouldn't see intruders in the face of police officers, and then I think things will be better. The police are there to carry out their duties. Any question will be answered as long as they are not attacked and pressured because they are really there to fulfill their duties. They've been working all night, and the next day they've been working again, so there's a good public order. There's not a single person allowed in there who has no right to be inside. This has been strictly observed and reported not to have been committed. Again, all these actions are in coordination with the Central Election Commission and with the President of the Municipal Election Commission. In conclusion, I would also like to congratulate all police officers from the National Assembly on the Day of Bulgarian Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u189	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with a question to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska on the National Program for Accessible Housing and Personal Mobility 2019. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I asked this question at the beginning of October and it is related to the problems and failure of the Programme this year. He has lost his relevance, but I am asking him today because it is important to clarify the problems that have arisen and to prevent this from happening next year. The National Program for Accessible Environment and Personal Mobility is part of the new Law for Disabled People. 56 and it is regulated in the Implementing Rules, which entered into force on 1 April 2019. It is unclear why the Programme was published on the public consultation portal only at the end of June for public consultation, which is unclear why three months later the adoption of documents under this programme was opened on 21 August and why the deadlines set for admission were only 40 days. Ever since the start of the program, dear Minister, you were aware that these short-terms were the basis for her failure. There are opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on this issue. In view of this, the committees to carry out the evaluation of project proposals should be able to do so and conclude contracts at the end of November. Why in the middle of the year, why not April, why weren't the deadlines higher? Many questions why? Two hundred and eight people received letters of support from the Social Assistance Directorates and only 55 people this year or only 55 applications were given the opportunity to be implemented. And they received this opportunity, even though the legal terms under the Law on Construction are much longer and are related to projects related to building permits, things that cannot happen within 40 days. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u192	In this regard, my question is: what did delay the Programme so little, what did the short-terms impose, and what do you plan for next year? Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u193	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, following the adoption of the new Law on Persons with Disabilities and its Implementing Rules, which entered into force on 2 April this year, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy developed and agreed with stakeholders the National Programme for Accessible Living and Personal Mobility. Here, saying 'coherence', I am referring to the entire procedure under the Law on Regulatory Acts, Public Consultations, discussion at the National Council for Disabled People with Other Interests. The programme was established by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy from August 14th and immediately began its implementation. In the period 21 August, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy conducted a campaign to raise project proposals under Component 1 "Accessive residential environment" and under Component 2 "Personal mobility" of the National Program for Accessible Housing and Personal Mobility. 55 applications were submitted during the campaign with proposals for financing projects worth 2 million. 304 thousand. BGN 835. Component 1 and seven applications with proposals for financing projects of a total of 25 thousand. BGN 991. component 2 or 62 project proposals for the territory of 18 municipalities of the country. The period of the campaign was really short one month and ten days due to the very little time, during which a series of specific activities and practical implementation of the National Programme were to be carried out from 30 September to the end of the year. These specific activities include: firstly, eligibility, evaluation and ranking of project proposals. The work was completed by mid-October by the Committees specifically appointed for this purpose. Secondly, validation of the minutes of the work of the expert committees and determination of the amount of funding of each approved and assessed project proposal. The activity ended with two of my orders from 16 and 17 October, approved for financing 43 proposals worth a total of 1 million. 840,000. BGN 343, including 1 million. 827 thousand. £83. for 39 proposals under Component 1 and BGN 14 260 for four proposals under Component 2. Thirdly, written notification to candidates with approved project proposals, as well as to any unsuccessful candidate on the specific reasons why the proposal concerned cannot be financed, the activity was completed immediately after the two orders for approval of the proposals were issued. Fourth, the conclusion of financing contracts between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and approved candidates. The activity was completed by signing 39 contracts on both components. Next, the conclusion of Component 1 contracts between beneficiaries and their selected contractors for construction works. The activity ended on 25 October with the signing of the contracts for construction works, as the actual implementation of the subject matter under contracts, accounting and payment under this activity started and will end in December. I have listed all these activities to justify why a longer period than 30 September was not possible so that the approved project proposals could be implemented accordingly. However, the above facts, I think, clearly show that despite the later announcement of the campaign and its short term, the objectives set are being achieved. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In practice, almost the total amount of 2 million. BGN planned in the budget of the Ministry for 2019 for the financing of this activity will be used. During this year, the actual preparation of the National Programme on the basis of important provisions resulting from a significant volume of legal and regulatory provisions, its subsequent adoption, validation and promulgation required the necessary technological time, resulting in the later announcement of the campaign and its very short term. In this regard, I can assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will announce a new campaign on the two components of the Programme by the end of the first quarter of 2020 at the latest, and the period for the recruitment of project proposals will last at least three months so that more people with difficulty in moving, including those who already have letters of support from the territorial social assistance directorates, can submit application documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u196	Dear Minister, in view of what you have said and the procedural obstacles to start the program earlier, my ambiguity is related to one thing: how and why, after the Rules of the Law on People with Disabilities came into force on 2 April, set this long coordination with the Programme, which was uploaded only on 28 June three months later? Couldn't things have happened at the same time to happen earlier at the beginning of the year? I am pleased with your reply that this year you will start the Programme in the first quarter, that the deadline for applying will be three months, but many questions remain and many problems remain. The way you introduced the Programme and the texts in this programme are related to designing, issuing the relevant building permits, visas. Under the Local Taxes and Fees Act, you know that each person who is interested in receiving such a document must pay the corresponding fee. Accordingly, the design documentation and the preparation of this project, respectively the drawing up of the quantitative-value accounts, are linked to significant costs which many people with disabilities could not afford. At the moment, in the way in which you introduce and the need for a decision on floor property, when this is going to happen in a residential building, there are texts in the Law on Construction in the territory that determine not the need to issue the relevant opinion on floor property, because this is an accessible environment. There are texts that contradict the Law on Construction in the Area and the Law on Floor Property, which means that the Programme must be revised and synchronized with the legislation. I hope you will see right now all these problems that have arisen with regard to the Programme, they will be cleared and the state will also provide some opportunity for people with disabilities to receive this documentation free of charge or in any way be secured by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Only in this way will people with disabilities receive a really affordable environment, which I hope they will receive in 2020. I hope that the budget for next year will be fully used and not as this year, in view of the short deadlines that you have introduced within forty days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Klisurska! I would like to stress that this programme was first included in the Bulgarian legislation, for the first time it was organized and a large amount of work was done, because the Ministry was engaged in the preparation of many regulations resulting from the law on people with disabilities, the Law on personal assistance and so on. So we did our best to develop the Programme as quickly as possible, co-ordinated with interested ministries with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Transport and so on. Yes, I have already said, it announced later than the time we wanted, but I cannot in any case agree with qualifications that the Programme has failed this year because this qualification is disproved by the data.. 43 approved proposals worth 1 million. 841 thousand, round, at 2 million resources, which is set aside in the budget. I would like to thank the mayors of these municipalities, who really helped citizens, individuals and floor owners for obtaining the necessary documents within shorter time limits and thus made it possible for them to participate in their project proposals. Surely the Programme needs to be improved, we are working on its improvement, as well as next year, after we have adopted the legal base, once we have a first pilot year, I am sure that there will be much greater interest and we will make the candidates most easier in this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To Minister Petkov there is a request from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on policies to promote longer working lives. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, my question is really about policies to promote longer working lives. This issue is dictated by this because the problem is serious and because it is the ageing of the population, which emerged as a long-term trend that began several decades ago in Europe. The fact is that the process of ageing is underway throughout the world, the fact is that Bulgaria is in a very advanced phase. According to statistics in Bulgaria, the ratio between working and pensioners is currently 3 to 1. Forecasts go so far that in about forty years this ratio will be 1.7 to 1. I will not comment on the causes of this state of demographic crisis, immigration, low birth rate, high mortality and so on. We have repeatedly debated these issues in this Chamber, commented on these topics without visible results and any changes in the situation. I would point out that this process of ageing the population is changing the social structure of society and there is no way that it will not raise concern and put challenges to the economy, to the pension system, to the health insurance system, through the social support system, to national security as a whole. Today, the social partners are faced with the lack of labour in quantitative and qualitative terms. While quantitatively there are easier solutions, such as education programmes, qualifications, including adult trainings, for the quality aspect of labour is not so simple. Employers have an interest in encouraging longer stay on the labour market in the labour process of people over a certain age, but they do not have serious tools to deal with these challenges, although there are serious signals for projects to promote longer work life and ability to work and serious requests for the realization of these projects. One solution to labour deficit problems is to really increase the share of employed people by promoting longer working lives, but this cannot happen without state support through consistent and targeted policies. The state must play a leading role in this process and even provide the appropriate funding for it. In this regard, Minister, it is my question to you: what will be the policies undertaken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and in general by this government to promote longer work life in a short and longer term? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u202	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the development of demographic processes, changes in the number and structures of the population have a strong impact on the main systems of society. Therefore, taking action to adapt sectoral policies to the ageing of the population is an important condition for the future economic and social development of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Bulgarian Government seeks to take a balanced approach to ageing and, on the one hand, promotes the activity of elderly people and at the same time provides conditions for their full participation in the social and economic plan. The main strategic documents to meet the demographic challenges in the Republic of Bulgaria, including ageing, are the updated National Strategy for Demographic Development of the Population in the Republic of Bulgaria with a horizon up to 2030 and the National Strategy for Active Ageing in Bulgaria 2019. The long-term strategic goal in terms of ageing is aimed at creating conditions for active and dignified adult life by providing equal opportunities for their full participation in the economic and social life of society. The strategy for active life was adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria this year on 15 March. The National Strategy for Active Ageing in Bulgaria with Horizon 2019 " 2030" contains four priorities, among which is the promotion of active adult life in the field of employment. Specific measures are described to each of the priorities to be followed through two-year plans and two-year reports for the implementation of the Strategy. The first plan, covering the period 2019 and 2020, has been finalised and is due to be co-ordinated and adopted by the Council of Ministers. Raising employment among older ones is a sustainable trend from 2012 to now. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, employment in people aged 55 to 64 grew by 15 percentage points from 45.7% in 2012 to 60.7% in 2018. In the second quarter of 2019 the employment rate for this group was 65%. It continues to reduce unemployment among older people. For 2018, the unemployment rate for persons aged 55 and over is 4.4%. For the second quarter of this year, the indicator value for this group is 3.5%. Unemployed persons over the age of 50 are one of the priority groups in the employment promotion policy. They are supported by targeted programmes and measures, including the National Programme "Help for Retirement" and measures under the Law to promote employment in support of unemployed persons over 50 years of age and over 55 years of age, by providing funds from the state budget for salaries, social and health insurance. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy launches the development of the National Employment Action Plan in 2020. The document will determine the priority directions, actions, programmes, incentive measures that will be implemented next year with a view to higher and better quality employment. In 2020, active work with unemployed persons over the age of 50 will continue with a special focus on those without qualification and low level of education who have reached pre-retirement age or have a qualification not sought by employers. Support will be focused on several areas. First of all, there is a wide range of services tailored to the personal profile, namely motivation for active behaviour in the labour market, mediation for information and employment, announced in the real sector, participation in a workshop for job search and labour exchanges, inclusion in programs, training and employment measures. As a follow-up measure, participation in lifelong learning to acquire the necessary skills, including digital skills, in order for older people to adapt to change and stay at work longer. In the next place, the provision of incentives for employers who provide employment to older people and support for transitions in the labour market. Long-term priorities, employment policy will be defined in the new employment strategy with a horizon of 2030, which is prepared by an interdepartmental working group of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The strategy is a key document that will direct the integrated efforts of state institutions, social partners and local authorities to improve the functioning of the labour market and ensure quality and productive workforce according to business needs. Special emphasis will be placed on policies to promote, create jobs in key sectors of the Bulgarian economy and increase knowledge and skills, including the digital skills that will prepare people for the changing labour market. The planned measures will contribute to the active work life of the older ones. Persons who have acquired the right to a pension may register at the employment offices and use the following services: information on announced vacancies, mediation on information and employment and psychological assistance. You know that very well. Since 2007, there has been a provision in the Social Security Code which promotes a longer participation in the labour market for persons who have acquired the right to a pension for retirement and age, but continue to work after the date of acquisition of the right, without being granted a personal pension, the percentage for one year of insurance service at a certain amount of the pension is three per cent. From 1 January 2012, he was promoted to four percent at 1.2 percent for the years before his retirement age. In addition, elderly people can complement their income from pensions by working. Bulgarian legislation is liberal enough in this regard, allowing for a salary at the same time with a full pension. As you know, with changes to the Social Security Code, the termination of the employment relationship as a prerequisite for exercising the right to pension. According to the NSI data at the end of 2018, more than 197 thousand pensioners receiving a personal pension for internship and age continue to work and are provided. The successful implementation of longer working life policies should be carried out with the combined efforts of all stakeholders. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy maintains permanent working formats for interdepartmental interaction on employment issues, ageing, for example through the Interdepartmental Working Group on Demographic Issues, Income and Living Level, and representatives of ministries, state agencies, representatives of national institutions such as NSI, NSI, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Bulgarian Red Cross, representatives of municipalities, social partners and others are included in this group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u203	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will trace the information you provided to me and analyze it for myself. I can tell you now that I am pleased with what you have said to me that the problem lies with your attention, with the attention of the government, with the problem of lack of labour and lengthening of work life. It's good that we have a strategy, it's good that we have projects, it's good that we have measures, but besides actions, there must be results. Minister, for this term, when you have completed the mandate or now, could you say that there are visible results from the implementation of these measures? For example, how many people have remained in the labour market? If we can do this and convince people that it is better for them to stay in the labour market for a longer time, even if they do not retire, it will be good. Just to clarify something. Under no circumstances, by raising the issue of promoting longer working lives, I do not mean depriving or hindering access to social security rights, such as increasing the retirement age of the retirement insurance service required. It's not about that at all. I believe that the current retirement conditions, the parameters that are laid down in the Social Security Code for a gradual increase in age and internship, are on the brink of acceptable from the point of view of working and living conditions in Bulgaria and from the point of view of health and life expectancy and from the point of view of tolerance from society. The extension of the duration of work life must be an individual, conscious act and require greater support from the state for older workers who want to remain economically active, such as the state at all, we as legislation and as programmes and measures to encourage longer stay in the labour market, must be flexible working regimes, reduced working hours, a possibility of partial retirement in order to protect elderly people from the need to work outside their powers. One last question, Mr. Minister: with what and with what budget funds for 2020 will you implement the policies for extending labour life and improving the quality of labour?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, taking the lead from your words, I would like to confirm the government's intention to strictly adhere to the parameters set out in the Social Security Code for retirement, conditions and requirements for retirement, which in 2015 were set to increase at the appropriate pace until 2037. Rather, the promotion of the active life of the elderly and their longer stay on the labour market is pursued by appropriate incentive measures, which I spoke about in the answer to my question. What I would say in addition and in response to the additional questions put is that the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2020, labour market policy, including measures to promote the longer stay of elderly people in the labour market, is implemented through the instrument adopted for this, namely the National Employment Action Plan. For actions, programmes and measures under the National Employment Action Plan, the draft budget, as you know, provides 73 million. lv. This is the amount that has been used in recent years for this policy, but the aim is to better focus them, to be used more effectively. Finally, I would like to express the belief that the elderly in the current situation, the labour market situation, the labour market shortage are a reserve that I am sure is being used by employers, the state encourages its inclusion and the elderly become an increasingly valuable asset for the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u207	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u208	I understand the advanced time, but, Minister, I must share this with you as an attitude. You are a professional in the social sphere and for almost three years you have been Minister of Labour and Social Policy and you cannot fail to see the problems that the ageing of the population in Bulgaria brings. You can also be aware of most of the policies to promote longer working lives that are applied in European countries and globally. Another is the issue, however, when it comes to implementing these measures in the short and long term. Here I am no longer convinced that the neoliberal approach that the government that you are a member of will allow the most faithful policies, programmes, measures and actions to be chosen. I'm more convinced that's not gonna happen. I am convinced that the delay in announcing, public consultation and implementation of these measures, whatever they may be, will lead to their introduction after some time of fire, if I may say so, and these measures, such as all these measures taken in a fire, will be late, inadequately adequate and effective and costly. Need I remind you that until recently, we even prohibited people in retirement from working. It was written in the Labour Code that an employer can hire a pensioner only with the permission of the Labour Bureau, provided that there is no candidate in the workplace, we canceled it, but very recently we introduced some changes to the legislation with which we prohibited pensioners from working in the state administration. The need to support citizens to be active in the labour market throughout their life must also be seen through the prism of the sustainability of social protection systems which are under increasing pressure. To promote longer working lives, it is necessary to find new mechanisms for the organisation of rights in providing and adapting jobs to working conditions for people of more advanced age. Bulgaria should in no case miss the moment of large-scale transformations taking place worldwide in the context of the Fourth Industrial Revolution in the context of labour digitization and together with social partners, trade unions and employers should build its national programme to address modern realities that adequately meet the needs of employers and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control today. We are continuing with two questions to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question to Minister Neno Dimov is from Mr. Gjorghi Gokov, Mr. Gokov, perhaps you should have stayed on the stand about the pollution of the Sazlieka river in the section after the waste water discharge coming from the Regional municipal waste depot near the Stara Zagora village of Rakitnitsa, on 18 and 19 September 2019. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the Regional Waste Depot near the village of Rakitnitsa of Stara Zagora was officially opened in July 2016. There are accepted treatment for non-hazardous solid municipal waste from all 11 municipalities in the region, plus the municipality of Tvarditsa. Out of five of the municipalities of Stara Zagora, Opan, Bratia Daskalovi, Chirpan and Radnevo, waste is transported directly and from the rest comes compacted by three overload stations. I hope, I hope, not only in words, that the system of the depot is built so that it meets all modern requirements by protecting not only soil and water, but also air. Without questioning the activities in the depot, I took the liberty of introducing you to a signal of residents of the village of Rakitnitsa, who was submitted to me as a Member of the Parliament from the Twenty-Seventh Multi-Mandote Election Region. Residents of the village of Rakitnitsa are worried and worried about what happened on 18 and 19 September 2019 pollution of the Sazlieka River in the area after the waste water discharge coming from the depot. A little back in time, but due to a coincidence so, the question now has to pass, people have found that about 500 meters after the discharge down the river water is cloudy and there is a dead fish swimming in it. They took pictures immediately, sent a signal to a wire. 112. On 20 September 2019 a complaint was also lodged at RIEW "Stara Zagora." In this regard, Minister, I asked you to order a check on the works of the depot and inform me, and through me and the residents of the village of Rakitnitsa, of the results. Please also answer the questions: is this a single incident, or is it due to technological imperfections or human actions, and what measures will you take to avoid such incidents in the future? I've got a picture of the fish here. [[shows it to the minister]] But you've probably seen it from the Internet releases. Mr. Minister, that's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u212	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, really on September 18, 2019 in connection with a signal received on the phone. 112 for the presence of dead fish in the Sazlieka River in the area of the village of Rakitnitsa was sent an immediate inspection by the Regional Inspection and by the laboratory in Stara Zagora. An on-site inspection was carried out, which she actually checked around the waste water collector. There was no evidence of dead fish as well as discharge of waste water from the Regional Centre. Also checked are the shafts of the Regional Centre itself, as in the last shaft in which the measuring device was in, there was no leakage of waste water and the shaft was dry. On 18 September 2019 again, given the location and length of the extracting collector, it is about two kilometers away from the depot, a new check was made. There were found compromised shafts, a prescription was made to the Municipality of Stara Zagora and on 26 September 2019 it reported that the prescriptions were met and possible places where there may be unauthorised inclusion were removed. On 19 September 2019 in RIEW, Stara Zagora, on the green telephone was received a signal of possible contamination of the water holding of the village of Arnautino and the village of Kaloyanovets. Samples have been taken and sent to the Health Inspection which has carried out the relevant tests, and from the Regional Health Inspectorate we know that drinking water is within the limits of the Water Quality Ordinance for Drinking-Putting Purposes, respectively. On 20 September 2019 in RIEW, Stara Zagora filed a written complaint for pollution on 18 and 19 September 2019 on the Sazleika River and did not complete the implosion of the depot. On 2 October 2019 a re-check of the Regional Centre was carried out and it was again found that there was no water leakage and that a clogging was carried out at the Regional Centre in its working area. We informed the complainant on 3 October 2019 of the results of the checks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u213	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u214	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, I will make sure that your answer reaches the inhabitants of the village of Rakitnitsa. I am not going to ask you the question, but if you are holding, you can answer me why this regional waste depot was built at all and nearly 52 million were spent when it was clear at the beginning of the construction that the disposal of waste after 2020 would not be tolerated by European legislation and there would also be a widespread ban on waste disposal in a slightly more distant horizon? In any case, the Regional Waste Management Centre is a fact. Now the important question is how to convince the people of the surrounding settlements, especially the village of Rakitnitsa, who protest from the very beginning that there is no pollution. I am aware that there will be no protests on this occasion, but these protests need to be very convincingly battled, if I may say so, with the fact that this would not interfere with the people and the inhabitants of their respective settlements for their lives. As we have seen, in many places in other European countries there are even factories for burning junk and solid waste in the city itself. An accident like this on 19 September 2019 and my question and your answer to this incident............................................is helping to calm these people... but they are sure that the polluter is the landfill from where the waste water comes and is drained in the river, and claim that this is happening without being passed through the treatment plant, as they claim to be ficily placed in some small wagon. All of this leads them to insist on taking urgent measures to identify the source of pollution, to impose sanctions and to prevent the contamination of the river; to a thorough and complete check of the operation of the depot, especially of the clogging, which they believe is implemented fictitiously and partially, and the majority of the site of cage 1 is not scattered, leading to pollution of the atmosphere; to make the necessary prescriptions and to monitor their execution and, if not carried out, proceed to partial suspension and removal of violations; to be informed of the results of all checks carried out by the institutions, such as being published on a dashboard in the village mayor. Minister, again on their behalf: do you guarantee that after the measures taken by you and the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, the incident of pollution on the Sazyika River will not happen again? Which, by the way, is protected in the Natura 2000 site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u215	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger. And I could answer Mr. Gokov's questions, he knows perfectly well that I'm a participant there.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u216	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, the fact is that the disposal will decrease, but even in the bravest goals set by the European Union, after 10 years of age, it is estimated about 10% of the deposit. In general, the ceiling currently being aimed at recycling, re-use, which is the most important thing, which is the circular economy, reaches up to 60 So the need for some kind of waste disposal will always be there. All I can say is that modern regional systems are at times-higher than what we are used to over the years back in time, not just because of the requirements of the European Union, but because of the achievements of science and technology at these moments. So what has established the specific check is that there can be no leak in the river, provided that the last revision shaft was absolutely dry. Will it happen and what are the conditions? The area inspection controls twice a year planning and whenever there are signals out of plan, I am convinced that questions such as yours and the answer as mine are at least not useless, so we will continue to jointly monitor these processes and help people there with information and inspections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Dimov is from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev on the construction of a combustion plant for RDF You have the floor, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In a number of Burgas media came out the information which was then confirmed that three investment intentions for the construction of an installation for burning RDF, i.e. solid municipal waste, were received in the territory of the RIEW Burgas. Currently the RIEW Burgas has stopped the procedure and the final decision will be taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water, i.e. by you. The citizens of Burgas are rightly worried that if the burning of such waste starts, our city will follow the fate of Bobov Dol.. Regular air pollution, extremely unpleasant smell and as a result of all this deterioration of living conditions and health problems for Burgas. In this regard, my two questions to you are: Does the Ministry intend to allow a change of the complex permit, i.e. to give the green light for the burning of these garbage waste in Burgas? Will public discussion be made and will the voice and interest of Burgas be taken into account in making the final decision? I dare say that the citizens of Burgas will massively oppose the possible positive opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u219	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u220	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, according to information from RIEW Burgas, in September 2018 there were really three investment proposals received in the Inspectorate from the companies "Valter Company" Ltd., "Koiba" Ltd. and "E-consult 2007" Ltd. for burning of RDF and coal dust, in boilers located at the disposal of the company "Toplafication" Burgas "EAD" with location in the city of Burgas. For all three investment proposals, the Director of RIEW Burgas has delivered a decision to suspend the procedure under Chapter 6 of the Environmental Protection Act, including the joint procedure under art. 31 of the Biodiversity Act until the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment Agency pronounces. In January 2019, the Ministry of Environment and Waters informed the Ministry of Environment and Water that, for the determination of the applicable environmental procedure for authorisation of a change of the Complex permit, it is necessary to provide information under the Environmental Protection Act and the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for issuing a complex permit. Currently, in RIEW, Burgas has not requested the renewal of the procedure by the three companies that I mentioned. There is also no investment intention by the "Topplofication" "Burgas" EAD for renting the boilers mentioned in the investment proposals. "Topplofication" Burgas is the operator of the Complex permit since 2015, with which the operation of the combustion plant is allowed. In accordance with art. 120 of the Environmental Protection Act, the body for issuing, refusing, reviewing, updating or repealing the Complex Authorisation shall be the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency. At the moment, the type of fuel used, authorised in the Complex permit, and the Executive Environment Agency has not received any information about planned changes in the work installation under Chapter Six for the construction of an installation for burning RDF in the territory of the Burgas. Without the conduct of your second question, the procedures under Chapter 6 and Chapter 7 of the Environmental Protection Act, which provide for public access to the documents for expressing opinions no less than 30 days, cannot be implemented the investment proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, there are enough air pollutants in Burgas, so one more extra, no, thank you. On several occasions in the answer you said at the present time, at the present time and my question was: if the relevant documents from the investors, respectively from the "Topplofication" Burgas, what will you do because there are two options? Yes, indeed, the procedure has been stopped at the moment, but it has not been terminated, and the ball is in the Ministry, respectively, literally in your office, at your desk. If you get the relevant documents, will you give the green light for the burning of such waste? I must say clearly that Burgas do not agree with all these poisons that will result from burning these craps, to breathing them both us and our children. We have initiated a petition against the burning of waste and it is said in Burgas that if, following the continuation of the procedure, this burning of this junk and waste is allowed, this signature, which is currently against the burning of waste, can be transformed into a signature for the resignation of the Minister of Environment and Water. And I'm just telling you this so you're aware of the moods of Burgas at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u223	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u224	If you have correctly traced the answer, the ball is not in the Ministry of Environment and Water or at my desk, the ball is that there is currently no stated investment intention. Since there is no investment intention, there is no way to rule out the Minister of Environment and Water or anyone else. If there is an investment intention, it must be carried out under the order of the Environmental and Water Protection Act. So by today we have nothing to talk about from the perspective of the future unknown time. No, there's no stated investment intent and there's nothing to rule on. There was, it was stopped. She has been asked to do so, she has done nothing further. If she decides to proceed, we will decide on what path she will proceed with permission, with EIA, with discretion and so on, the options are several. If she doesn't decide, what answer should I give you? He just doesn't want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-08.u225	Thank you, dear Minister. That was the last question for Minister Dimov. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. That concludes parliamentary control. The next extraordinary plenary session on 12 November 2019 shall be held at 1300 hours. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
