ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period January 30, 2019: "1." Draft decision to hold a solemnly extraordinary plenary session of the National Assembly on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the National Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution. Importer is Tsveta Karayancheva, January 29, 2019. 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 20 November 2018. Adopted in first vote on 13 December 2018. 3. First vote on the Bill on Population and Housing Census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 4 December 2018. 4. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Animal Health. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 17 December 2018. Adopted in first vote on 11 January 2019. Point 1 for Thursday 31 January 2019 5. Project of a decision to rename the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts in Plovdiv, at the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts Prof. Asen Diamandiev. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 17 January 2019. Point 2 for Thursday 31 January 2019 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 10 January 2019. Adopted in first vote on 23 January 2019. Point 3 for Thursday 31 January 2019 7. Second vote on the Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 22 November 2018. Adopted in first vote on 24 January 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 1 February 2019 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed agenda. Vote 157 MPs: 124, none, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. I offer to your attention drafts and resolutions from 23 to 29 January 2019: - A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports; - A bill to amend and supplement the Social Assistance Act. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Education and Science; - Annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union in 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It shall be allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and all other parliamentary committees; - A bill to amend and supplement the Water Act. Importers are Ivan Stefanov Valkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Budget and Finance; - Annual activity report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2018. Importer is the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. Distributed to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; - Draft decision to hold a solemnly extraordinary plenary session of the National Assembly on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly. Importer is Tsveta Karayancheva. Colleagues, a letter has been sent to me by Mrs. Gergana Stefanova, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Volja. "Dear Madam President, please, on the basis of art. 14, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall include changes to the special register of the National Assembly as follows: 1. Change the name of the parliamentary group "Parliamentary group of the Political Party " Volja". Please enter the new name of the parliamentary group, namely: "Volja" "Bulgarian patriots." [[Noise, lines, laughter.]] I shall apply a minutes of a group meeting signed by all Members of the Parliamentary Group. Here is the protocol with the signatures of the MPs. Messages: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of an aircraft with crew of soldiers from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria for the performance of special flights, for the provision of air transport, for the transport of officials by route from Sofia airport to Bucharest airport, the Republic of Romania, on 30 January 2019, and vice versa from Bucharest airport to Lower Metropolitan Airport and Sofia airport, on 31 January 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 29 January 2019 with entry No 903-09-2 and was submitted to the Defence Committee; In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that, in connection with the conduct of joint combat shootings with the formation of the Republic of Serbia of a zenite polygon of the Air Force "Shabla" in the period from 4 to 20 June 2019, Decision No 41 of the Council of Ministers of 2019 authorises the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of aircraft and personnel from the Air Force of the Republic of Serbia. The notification was received on 25 January 2019 with entry No 902-00-4 and was made available to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u2	Coming through. to the first point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DEVELOP THE TRADE-EXCLUSIVE PLENAR MEETING OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF THE 140 YEARS FROM THE EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING AND THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TEMPORARY CONSTITUTION. Dear Ms. Karayancheva, you have the floor to present the Project for solution and reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u3	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! On 16 April 2019 the establishment of the Grand National Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution are 140 years old. Forty-fourth National Assembly is honored to celebrate this holiday, so on 16 April 2019 the meeting will be held in the building of the Constitutional Assembly in Veliko Tarnovo. For this reason, we must adopt a decision today so that we can formalise this meeting. I will tell you in a few words what will include the solemn session, which will be held there, and the accompanying events, which start from February 5 with a concert in Hall. All Members of the National Assembly have invited: Hall "Bulgaria" concert of Sofia Philharmonic with several works to mark the beginning of the celebrations. On February 10, 2016, Sunday, there will be an open-door day. Then we will have the chance to welcome the residents and guests of Sofia, to enter the Chamber, to see the building of the National Assembly. For them there will be a surprise in the couloirs of the National Assembly will be exposed the original of the Tarnovo Constitution, for which I would like to thank the State Agency for providing it to us. We have a traveling exhibition in every district town by program, with a corresponding schedule. Members of Parliament, I call on you to participate in this exhibition, in the presentation in the respective constituency. She's very interesting. It is made of various artifacts that show both scenes from the Founding Assembly and parts of the journals of the plenary sessions that took place in the distant 1879. We also have a discussion of young people - students and students who will make discussion clubs and will compete with each other on modern topics. The finale of this discussion will be here the best two teams will debate in the National Assembly building. Everything that has been done over the years for the celebrations of the anniversaries that connect the National Assembly with the Constitutional Assembly has been more institutional. We decided that they should be more turned towards the people, more Bulgarian citizens to understand exactly what happened in this distant year, exactly what the builders of modern Bulgaria have done with their free spirit to adopt one of the basic laws, which has been extremely progressive for the time being. We proceed to the date of April 16, 2019, when in all schools in Bulgaria, there will be a lecture on Constitution. We have an example lesson that we will post on the website of the National Assembly, together with a power point presentation, so that any teacher who is not even a historian can conduct this lesson on Constitution. It will start as soon as the solemn meeting in the building of the Constitutional Assembly starts, so that the whole of Bulgaria at this hour will talk about the Bulgarian Constitution. The solemn sitting, which we will open with a reconstruction, will continue with solemn speeches by the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. Then, colleagues, each parliamentary group will broadcast its youngest MP and these MPs will read the address to the Bulgarian people, which we will accept. These are the reasons that I can present on the proposed draft decision. I hope that the spirit of the founders will begin to linger today in this hall and continue in the building of the Constitutional Assembly on 16 April 2019. Let's be constructive, let's argue as they have argued, because there were extremely emotional debates there, there was leaving the hall, there was an exchange of slaps [[noise and lines]] , however, this did not ultimately prevent a document from being adopted on 16 April 1879 which, as I said earlier, was one of the most progressive fundamental laws adopted in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u4	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Colleagues, before I give the floor for speeches, I will read you the draft decision: Project! DECISION holding a solemn plenary session of the National Assembly on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the National Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The National Assembly to hold a solemnly extraordinary plenary session on 16 April 2019 in Veliko Tarnovo, in the Museum "Renaissance and Constitutional Assembly" on the following agenda: Adopting the address of the Forty-fourth National Assembly to the Bulgarian people on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the National Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am extremely happy with this initiative as a representative from Veliko Tarnovo and as a professional historian. It is no coincidence that it is in Veliko Tarnovo. It is determined by the decisions of the Berlin Congress, in which it is clearly fixed that a meeting of notabils in Veliko Tarnovo will produce the future Organic Statute of the Principality of Bulgaria. The very convening of the Assembly is preceded by very long meetings whether to open the meeting at all, because this recognizes the division of Bulgaria and the separation of Macedonia and Thrace. These debates prior to the official opening of the Constitutional Assembly are known under the issue of the discussion of the People's Question. On February 10th, however, the Constitutional Assembly meets in Tarnovo and produces a Constitution which, not without reason, we can say, is betting all those fundamental principles of freedom, equality, the rule of law, which are still the value of our political and social life. It is very interesting, but I am still tempted to say that one of the first editions of the Tarnovo Constitution can be seen in our window here, in the couloirs, which was issued by the printery of one of the founders of IMRO in 1893 in Thessaloniki. This constitution becomes a symbol of all Bulgarians, no matter where they live. I take the floor in support of the decision and with a serious argument that we will reaffirm the role of Veliko Tarnovo as the centre of statehood and constitutionalism. In the very decisions of the Constitutional Assembly is arranged this place of Veliko Tarnovo. When discussing the issue of the capital of the Principality of Bulgaria, the Constitutional Assembly decides that Bulgaria has two capitals: Sofia - administrative, and Veliko Tarnovo - historical. In the first in Sofia, the prince resides, that is, the Head of State resides in Sofia and in Veliko Tarnovo takes an oath. For the second time after the opening of the Seventh Grand National Assembly, the National Assembly will meet in Tarnovo. With support, I'll allow myself to make an editorial amendment. I ask you very much to accept my proposal and from the draft decision to drop the title of the National Assembly and to acquire the form of the Constitutional Assembly. My arguments are extremely institutional and historical. If you look at your smartphones, you will see all the publications, diaries and books dedicated to the Constitutional Assembly. The adopted Tarnovo Constitution defines the name of the new parliament, which is called the National Assembly in its two forms. In the historical memory and in the documentary, the Constitutional Assembly is formulated simply as a Constitutional Assembly. The word "people" is rather a reference to the already adopted Constitution and the constitutional norm established to this day that Parliament is called the National Assembly. So, if we have to be correct about the name of the institution, then in both the historical and the national memory, we must discharge a Constitutional Assembly and I ask you to accept this editorial amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u6	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u7	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Just one clarification where exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u8	Both in the Decision and in the title, the expression "The Founding People's Assembly" to be replaced by the wording of only the Constitutional Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u9	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Then we'll proceed to the vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Milen Mihov for editorial amendment in the text of the Decision, as proposed by him. Vote 151 MPs: 131, against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text of the Decision, as presented to you, with the editorial amendments already adopted. Vote 158 MPs: for 157, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we proceed with a second point: The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 13 December 2018. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present to us the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure first to vote in the Chamber of the National Assembly to allow Mrs. Marinela Petrova to be admitted to the House of Finance, and Mr. Stefan Belchev, Director of the Directorate of Control and Internal Audit Methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u11	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 145 MPs: 137, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the representatives admitted to the Chamber. Please continue, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u12	On 20 November 2018, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector, No 802-01-52, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 13 December 2018. The Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Management and Control. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u13	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u15	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1 supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u16	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 2 by proposing that, after the word......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u17	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 with the amendments proposed by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 by proposing in point 3. 1 the words................................................................................................. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 with the proposed editorial amendments by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u20	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "strategic" is added, and the word "strategically" is replaced by "indicators." 2. Points 4 and 7 shall be repealed. 3. point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. the separation of decision-making, enforcement and control responsibilities; 4. Points 9 and 12 are repealed. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 the word "introduction' is replaced by "insuring'. 6. Point 15 is repealed. 7. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 16 the word "creating' is replaced by "acquired'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u23	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5 supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u26	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the 1. In para. 1 the word "input' is replaced by "insuring'. 2. Alinei 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The control activities shall be implemented at all levels within the organisation and at all stages in achieving the objectives. They may be preventive, revealing or corrective, including at least: 1. a double signature system which does not allow the taking of a financial obligation or the making of payment without the signatures of the head of the organization under art. 2 and the person responsible for accounting records; 2. rules for access to assets and information; 3. policies and procedures for preliminary control of legality; 4. policies and procedures for ongoing control of the implementation of financial commitments and concluded contracts; 5. policies and procedures for subsequent implementation assessments; 6. policies and procedures for objective, accurate, complete, reliable and timely accounting of all business operations; 7. policies and procedures for human resources management; 8. policies and procedures for compliance with personal integrity and professional ethics. (4) The order and manner of carrying out the preliminary control of the legality shall be determined by the heads of the organizations under art. 2 on the basis of risk assessment and cost-benefit analysis and in accordance with the instructions of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u27	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 7 by importer. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8 by proposing, in accordance with point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 8 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer under Paragraph 8 with the proposal for editorial amendments by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u31	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 supported by the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u32	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 10 by proposing that the words "in the system of financial management and control in the public sector' be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u33	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10 with the proposal for editorial amendments by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u35	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u36	Under § 12, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with Article 12. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Minister of Finance shall draw up and submit to the Council of Ministers a consolidated annual report on internal control in the public sector by 31 May, which shall include summary information on the state of financial management and control in the public sector received under art. 8 and the state of internal audit received in accordance with art. 40 of the Public Sector Internal Audit Act. Following its adoption by the Council of Ministers, the consolidated report shall be submitted to the National Assembly and to the Court of Auditors. 3. The creation of para. 5. After consideration by the National Assembly, the opinions of the Court of Auditors on the reports under para. 2 and 3 shall be sent to the Council of Ministers and to the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u37	Statements? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain to the Members of the National Assembly what is the point of this proposal that I made during the meeting of the Budget Committee, namely in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As you can see, in § 12, namely in art. 20 amendments are being made which aim to increase control, as well as to create prerequisites for optimising the activities of internal audits and in general the state of management and control throughout the public sector, which we all, as MPs, want to happen. In this regard, the importer has proposed to amend para. 2, by requiring the Minister of Finance to collect the information on the state, by examining and processing the internal audit reports in the various public organisations, to make a summary report, respectively, with analysis and conclusions of these reports which he has collected and received, and to submit it to the Council of Ministers, and to send it to the Court of Auditors and the National Assembly. But thus recorded, this procedure remains somewhat unfinished, that is, the Council of Ministers could take some opinion, make any decision to change the legal documents or issue regulations that would increase the level of these internal control bodies. It is very important to have an outside view of this after all. That is why it is provided in para. 2 this report of the Council of Ministers shall be presented to the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors. The National Assembly, for its part, in the face of the subcommittee in the composition of the Budget and Finance Committee, shall consider this report, may take certain decisions, may make certain recommendations. The Court of Auditors also has the task of examining it and, if necessary, will make any further clarifications and checks. And that's it. We are, in a way, informing two bodies of the National Assembly and the Court of Auditors, and that is why I have made this proposal. It obliges the Court of Auditors to submit to the National Assembly its opinion on this consolidated report, the National Assembly to examine it and to send it accordingly to the Council of Ministers and to the Supreme Judicial Council, as it is not only about para. 2, but also for para. 3, with recommendations and conclusions of their follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u39	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 12. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u40	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 13, proposing that, after the words of the Member State in charge of the fourth, it be added, with art. 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m., 20 a.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u41	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13 with the amendments proposed by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u42	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for § 14, supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15 by proposing, in accordance with paragraph 1. 1 after the words the companies under.......................................................................................................... 2, para. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 11 after the word "organizations" to be added by art. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 15 words to be replaced by an act or document.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u45	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15 with the amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, there is no objection and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u46	'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and proposes to amend it as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u47	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to change the name of the division in "Concluding provisions." Vote 107 MPs: 93, against 12, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u48	Under § 16 by importer, Mr. Chairman, there is a proposal of the MPs Maria Ilieva and Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Internal Audit in the Public Sector (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 16 is The Director of the Organisation shall provide the staff of the Internal Audit Unit with the necessary funds and conditions for ongoing vocational training and development. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 4 the final addition shall be made to the public interest enterprises within the meaning of the Accounting Act, which shall establish audit committees under the terms of the Independent Financial Audit Act. (b) in para. 5, t. 2 the state of financial management and control systems is added after the word. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 19th para is In the event that a public sector internal auditor certificate issued by the Minister of Finance has been acquired more than three years before the appointment of an internal auditor or internal audit manager and that persons have not carried out internal or external audit activities for more than three years before their appointment, the latter must have completed professional trainings and/or been lecturers in the field of internal audit for a total duration of not less than 20 hours prior to their appointment. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 31 is The Director of Internal Audit and Internal Auditors shall participate in at least one vocational training per year. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 the words "ministry and municipalities" shall be replaced by "organizations" under art. 12, para. 2 with internal audit units established with the exception of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Court of Auditors. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 after the words "maintainment of " is added to the public', and after the words...................................................................................................................... is added to the 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) New para. are created. 1 and 2: sc) The heads of the organizations under art. 12, para. 2 failed to fulfil the obligation to build an internal audit unit is punished with a fine from 200 to 1000 BGN. (2) The heads of the organizations under art. 18, para. 1 failed to fulfil the obligation to set up an audit committee, shall be punished with a fine from 200 to 600 BGN (s); (b) The current para. 1, 2 and 3 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5. 8. In § 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is inserted. 9. Nine. The Board shall be independent from the Director of the organisation monitoring the organisation's activities, including the activities of the internal audit, and shall not directly participate in the management and control of the organisation and shall be responsible. The audit committee shall aim to assist the management of the organisation with regard to financial reporting and internal control and to help ensure independence of internal audit in the organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal made by me to amend the text of an importer concerns the qualification necessary for the internal auditors to maintain a valid certificate. The initial proposal does not specify the duration of the required training required in order for the certificate to be valid and it is said that the internal auditors should have undergone three trainings. Since the duration of vocational trainings is different, it can be from two hours, up to three days, up to five days, I believe that this issue needs to be accurately stated and therefore my proposal is those who wish to be appointed as internal auditors, in the last two years before the appointment have passed professional trainings and/or been lecturers in the field of internal audit of a total duration of not less than 20 hours. Another reason or other reason for this proposal is that the Internal Audit Act recognises as a necessary certificate for the exercise of this profession, other than the internal audit certificate in the public sector and two internationally recognised certificates: one CIA certificate, one CIA certificate, one internal auditor, and the other CCAP, which is its analogue for the public sector. Those certificates shall be issued by the International Institute of Internal Audit and they shall require compulsory professional qualifications per year in order to be able to be maintained and to demonstrate their professional competence. On the one hand, there is a difference between the hours of vocational training required for practitioners auditors there are 20 hours for holders of CCAP certificate and 40 for CIA, and for non-practitioners this value is half. Since the Law, as I said, aligns these certificates and the internal auditor certificate in the public sector, which is issued by the Ministry of Finance and the two certificates referred to by me, which are issued by the International Institute of Internal Audit, I believe that it is logical and appropriate to have an equivalence with the requirements for maintaining this certificate, which actually proves the professional competence of auditors required by the standards of internal audit, for the exercise of this profession in the public sector. What I also propose as a supplement is that professional qualifications should also be recognized in the field of auditing. They shall be recognised by the International Internal Audit Institute and shall also be considered as vocational training points relating to the maintenance of the professional competence of persons. As it is assumed that persons who do not exercise the profession have a much lower risk of contributing any risk to the professional competence they will exercise, the proposal is to maintain certificates by persons who have not exercised the profession to be half the requirement of compulsory vocational training for the existing internal auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. A line? A line, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, you well explained your proposals, but I would like to ask you for a more detailed argument about the need to have external internal control auditors and to convince your colleagues that this is not an attempt to seek to create work for a category of people to receive funds from the public sector. Here I would also ask for a ban: to prohibit all these auditors from carrying out acts under the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I think it is undeniable for all of us that the professional competence of the internal auditors involves effective management of the activities and processes in the public sector, because one of the ideas of the internal audit is precisely to ensure the effectiveness of management, to ensure the effectiveness of management, to ensure the legality, efficiency and economy of all processes and activities that take place in the public sector. In order for the auditor to really ensure all this, he must be competent, have the necessary education, experience, but also qualification. It is common to prove this qualification by holding a certificate in the first place. In Bulgaria, however, a certificate of activity as an internal auditor in the public sector, issued by the Ministry of Finance, received about 2000 people. Only 500 of them are really active internal auditors. It is normal, over time, that people who do not exercise this profession and have never exercised it, need to remind themselves, refresh, update their knowledge of internal audit, so that they can, if they want to start working as an internal auditor in the public sector, really be at the necessary level of professional competence and achieve the results that, as I said, aim to ensure efficiency, efficiency, economy and the legality of all management activities, actions, processes in public administration. This is precisely the purpose of this amendment, which requires maintaining the professional competence of these people or passing a certain number of certain hours of vocational training, so that they can prove their professional competence and really be useful in their work in the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Any other speeches? You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, outside the proposal made by colleagues Ilieva and Angelova, I would like to draw attention to another point in § 16, which has not been paid as much attention so far, which is a novelty: the obligation of the heads of organizations, which are regulated in art. 12, para. 2 and in art. 18, para. 1, namely to set up such internal audit units, and the importance of their establishment, the new § 16 regulates to carry sanctions in the event of failure to comply with this requirement. So far, even with this regulation in the previous law, there have been no clearly mentioned sanctions for the heads of these units if they do not fulfil their legal obligation. It is with the imposition of a sanction, which is in the case of art. 12, para. 2 - from 200 to 1000 BGN, and in art. 18, para. 1 From 200 to 600 BGN, motivates the need and makes the leaders of these units to formulate, refine and carry out such internal audit activities, as well as the coworkers have made this proposal of their own in these internal audit units to work people who are adequately prepared and comply with the competences required by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u58	Mr. President, honourable Members, I take the floor briefly to clarify, in view of the duplicate of my colleague Maria Ilieva and the speech of my colleague Ivanov, I take it that this is not about external internal auditors, but about internal auditors who are appointed in compliance with the requirements of this law, so I withdraw my question, which had other logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 16. They voted 71 MPs: 70 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u60	For the procedure please come in, Mr. Tarnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u61	Mr. President, honourable Members, according to our Rules of Procedure, art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, Members of the National Assembly may make written proposals for amendment and addition to the bills adopted at the first vote. In accordance with art. 84, para. 1, last sentence, proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote are not discussed, no votes are not voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u62	How many times do you break that rule? Why a point of order?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u63	It's a point of order. Mr President, here I am not proposing that they be cancelled or not voted on, and I urge you not to put the next four paragraphs to a vote. Mr. President, I do not know whether I need to explain here why this is a bad practice and it is unacceptable, because at second reading, bills which have not been seen at first reading cannot be changed substantially, have not gone through the procedure that is necessary. In the end, if the National Assembly will accept everything that is being tabled by the government, then we should not have the Rules, we should not have a procedure for adoption and submission of the bills. This is also one of the reasons why the rating of the National Assembly is so low. The way we do the bill is vicious. Of course, this affects our rating as MPs, and I don't want to be a part of it. I therefore appeal, Mr President, on the basis of the Law, to our Rules, that you do not allow the next four paragraphs to be discussed and voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u64	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Welcome back to your position, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u65	Mr. President, honourable Members, I would like to give back an opinion on what my colleague Turnovalyski has presented to your attention, with the following arguments and considerations. The Constitutional Court, in many decisions, has taken the view that discussing proposals between first and second readings, i.e. what counterpart Turnovalyski says, that represents adopting one reading, is not a violation of the constitutional requirement. This is because the opposite would mean that the whole process of proposals between first and second reading would be meaningless. This procedure is in fact a manifestation of the legislative initiative in two directions: to express, to propose an alternative legislative solution or to supplement it. In this case, the Member shall object to provisions discussed by the committee responsible. They have been admitted to discussion by the committee responsible. We have had such precedents in which the committee itself, during the discussion, evaluates and says, for example, that these four provisions go beyond the scope of the basic bill. The House is in a position to confirm the non-conflict, but it still has the opportunity to be a corrective and to say to the committee responsible: "You did not allow them to be discussed, but we will discuss them. In this situation, and since the committee responsible has taken the view that these rules are related to the Bill, do not contradict its subject matter and do not alter its content, and, in the present case, as far as I understand it, it is also a matter of settling the effects of the Constitutional Court judgment in a constitutional case in which we are obliged to do so on another basis, both under Constitution and under the Rules of Procedure, to comply with this decision and the National Assembly has a deadline to do so. So if, in these four provisions, we reflect the consequences, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, what is more natural than that? We fulfill our duty, follow the instructions of the Constitutional Court and accordingly regulate matter within an optimal period, as provided for in the law. Dear Mr. President, I would suggest, if my colleague Turnovalyski insists, that we put his procedure to a full vote, an bloc in terms of eligibility or inadmissibility of the discussion of these four norms, but they are already in the Report. We can't skip over, ignore their discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u67	It's procedure, what line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u68	There was a reverse opinion. Let me get this straight. In my opinion, Mr Turnovalyski specifically addressed me in the statement under the procedure and not to the voting room for his proposal..................... that these texts should not be put to the vote. We've also heard the opposite opinion. I see no reason to change a constant practice, Mr. Turnovallisky, on which you have also examined that it is not good practice, but it is a practice imposed in the work of the Assembly. I'm not going to vote on this proposal. There's no such request. We continue with the Report and vote on the texts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u69	Proposal by the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Alexander Ivanov, Daniela Saveklieva and Evgenia Angelova for the creation of § 17, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In the National Revenue Agency Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5 para. 3 and 4 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u70	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u71	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to introduce you to the reasons why we have made this proposal, and it is for the annulment of para. Art. 3 and 4 5 of the Law on the National Revenue Agency, namely that the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Act are to be repealed para. 3 and 4 in art. 5 because the norms are inaccurate, incomplete and are not in line with the provisions of the related legislation adopted subsequently and in force at the time. The state budget revenue plan shall be determined by art. 1 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for each year. It is in this regard that there is no basis for presenting to the Board of Directors of the National Revenue Agency a plan or forecast of revenue from public claims and of private public claims collected by the National Revenue Agency before submitting such a bill for the state budget for the relevant year to the Council of Ministers. This is also the current requirement for the current provision in art. 5, para. 4 and para. 3 in the National Revenue Agency Act. In accordance with art. 16 of the Public Finance Act, taxation and non-tax revenue shall be collected by natural and legal persons on the basis of a law or other regulatory act, administrative act or contract. The collection of tax and non-tax revenue from the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency are regulated in the special laws governing the activities of these income agencies, namely the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency. The laws governing the activities of these revenue agencies, namely in art. 14, para. 1 of the Customs Act, the revenue of which is the Customs Agency is indicated, among which are the excise duties and the value added tax for imports of goods under art. 16 of the Law on Value Added Tax, and in art. 3 of the Law on the National Revenue Agency.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It should be borne in mind that on the basis of art. 12, para. 2 of the Public Finance Act, the central budget, the part of the state budget, where tax revenues are taken into account, is administered by the Minister of Finance in accordance with the requirements of this Act, the State Budget Act for the year concerned and in the implementation of the acts of the Council of Ministers. At the same time, the general management and control over the activities of the National Revenue Agency shall be carried out by the Minister of Finance or by a Deputy Minister appointed by him, again on the basis of art. 4, para. 3 of the National Revenue Agency Act. The Minister of Finance and appointed by him Deputy Minister of Finance are members of the Management Board of the National Revenue Agency and the Minister of Finance is Chairman of the Management Board. This is regulated in art. 5, para. 1 and 2 of the National Revenue Agency Act. In view of these obligations of the Minister of Finance and its powers in drawing up the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria and controlling the current implementation of the same budget in accordance with the annual laws on the state budget, the planning of the collection, the funds collected by the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency in the state budget, the current operational activity of the Minister of Finance and in so far as the general budget plan is set out in the Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year, and the revenue agency responsible for the collection is determined by law. It is on this basis that we propose these two...... 3 and 4 of art. 5 of the National Revenue Agency Act, drop out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have already stated from this platform that we will not support these texts, first of all, because of their conflict with our Rules in the way they have been tabled. Either way, you are starting a debate on these issues and, Mr. President, for the second time you are violating the Rules of Procedure, allowing this to happen in this House because the proposed texts for amendments to the National Revenue Agency Act have nothing to do with the philosophy and scope of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act to which they are included. In terms of motives. I cannot agree in any way that these two paragraphs are inaccurate, incomplete and are not in line with the provisions of the related legislation, as stated just now here by the proposer. These texts are in the National Revenue Agency Act, since the law exists, I think it is 2002. The requirement to present an expected implementation, the Revenue Plan of the National Revenue Agency is completely understandable and necessary, but this has nothing to do with that the revenue plan, you see, was reflected in art. 1 in the State Budget Act. In the end, in art. 1 is the revenue, but to get to art. 1 and until the introduction and adoption of the state budget, we have a very long budgetary procedure, part of which is the presentation of the Revenue Plan as seen by the revenue agencies, and not for nothing in 2009. You, as a majority, have made changes to these texts, and the public claims are also included in the private ones. My fellow Members, it is incomprehensible to me why the information that the National Revenue Agency gives for the expected implementation of revenue and expected revenue is to be dropped for the year in question. After all, in recent years, we have seen that planning is getting away with reality and that the government is trying to present itself as better implementation and better work of the revenue agencies. If we do not have information on what is the view of revenue administrations on revenue, we will not be able to conclude where the problem is, because more revenue collected is not always the better work of administrations. In many cases, and in most of them, it is improper planning, and it is quite often completely deliberate for certain reasons that we all know here. The reasons say that this is part of the operational activity of the Minister of Finance and, see, there is no need for the NRA and the Customs Agency to provide information about the Revenue Plan. If the Minister of Finance does not have this information from the NRA, how will the budget be drawn up for the year in question? That's impossible! What are we saying here? The Minister of Finance will take his information, but the public and the National Assembly must not know what the revenue agencies, the administrations to which we all pay to carry out this activity. I consider the proposals inadmissible, even more in the way they were tabled, without the opinion of the Minister of Finance, without the opinion of the National Revenue Agency. Once again, this is a vicious way of making legislation! We very soon expect in this direction a decision of the Constitutional Court relating to the complaint lodged under the Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u74	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u75	Mr. Turnovallisky, you said these were old texts from 2002. Here is the first argument. From 2002 to 2019 we have a serious development in the Revenue Agency and in terms of optimizing and focusing its functions on the main subject of activity, namely control, collection and service of taxpayers. I must tell you that part of administrative reform is also clearing up the duplication of units in different structures. The Ministry of Finance has, meanwhile, established a tax policy as a directorate that has its own direction, namely forecasting, planning, analysis of revenue from tax, non-tax revenue and so on. You want the Revenue Agency to continue to have such a duplicate unit. The 2002 Revenue Agency has developed a very comprehensive information system in which there are extremely many data databases. On the basis of these databases, different incisions and references are made, which are also available to the revenue forecasting unit of the Ministry of Finance. The right thing is for the National Revenue Agency to focus on its operational work on revenue collection, not to plan how much revenue it itself will collect. You understand the nonsense? And from its information system, from sufficient data and opportunities to generate any incision from references, namely the specialized unit in the Ministry of Finance, can and makes this forecast, which is not to be approved by the Supervisory Board of the National Revenue Agency for the simple reason, firstly, that the President of the Supervisory Board is the Minister himself, and, secondly, I say again: it is not possible for the Revenue Agency to plan its own revenue and then carry it out. It's not like that anywhere in the world! You've been studying in different countries, you have an idea from different revenue administrations. There is a division everywhere between the operational activity of collecting revenue, serving taxpayers, processing their tax returns from the planning and forecasting of the revenue that these agencies need to collect. Mr. Turnover, don't live with the reality of 2002.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u76	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague of Tarnovalyski, I cannot agree with your motives because at least I am one of the importers of the proposal, but continuing what Mrs. Stoyanova said, the Bulgarian taxpayer should not pay for duplication of activities in separate ministries and offices. At least what you said in art. 1 of the State Budget Act, this information is visible for the forecast that the revenue agencies, the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency, are doing for what funds will be collected in the state budget, I think it is sufficiently detailed, accurate and correct. If such a forecast is exceeded or not fulfilled, it is relevant, as you said, not only from the forecast, but also from the work of the economy itself or from the work of the revenue agencies. You said it wasn't always a tight relationship. That is true, in this part of the speech I agree with you, namely that sometimes this can happen from the better economic environment and the development of the economy in the country. I ask you to reconsider your opinion and support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here's a third line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr Turnovalyski, since in your speech you referred, although not very specifically, but I think it has become clear to everyone that you are referring to the request you have submitted against certain provisions of the Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, I have made a search in the Constitutional Court's practice and I would like to object to your claim and even speculation that by the Constitutional Court's decision we will see how wicked our legislative practice is. Not on the contrary. I am convinced that with the Constitutional Court's decision, we will see confirmation that in the discussion of both the National Health Insurance Fund's Budget Act and this Act, we respect the legislative procedure as it was not only in the 44th, 43th, 42nd, 41st National Assembly, but also the 39th and 40th National Assembly. I will refer to Decision No 6 of 29 March 2001, commenting on the legislation of the National Assembly concerning the rules governing budgetary relations. In addition to your thesis that you are passing here, that such laws cannot discuss proposals between first and second readings, you will see that the Constitutional Court has also confirmed this right of the National Assembly, as well as another right What you keep saying: on one day the Council of Ministers spends a million levs. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u80	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u81	Read them these solutions. Thank you for your attention. I need your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u82	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there gonna be an asshole? There were three lines. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u83	Dear Mr. Kirilov, what the Constitutional Court will say, we will see when we have a solution. Since you have and so well motivated the correctness of this legislative initiative, then change the two Rules of Procedure I cited. Why should we, contrary to our Rules today, accept these... I am adamant that this is contrary to the rules. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, since 2002 is the entire Law. If he's that old, archaic, change the National Revenue Agency Act. If those were your motives, it was nice to have them discharged. [[Replication by rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] Now you've thought about it. You see how units are duplicated in the NRA and the Ministry of Finance. [[Replication by rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you know better than I do that the Department of Tax Policy in the Ministry of Finance has had it for many years. Since you've been ruling for almost 10 years, why didn't you change it before? You've had your chance. [[Replication by rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] The strange thing is that January, after the Law has acted so many years after you have had so many opportunities, this has not changed and is done in this way without having the opinion of the Agency and the Ministry, of course. We can't accept that as normal. We won't support him. It is clear that you will accept it and vote it out. Again I say: these vicious practices affect the attitude of the Bulgarian business, of the Bulgarian citizens to our work. I do not want this to be an attitude towards me and even less this is a way to reduce the administrative burden on business by making such small and small repairs in this way. This definitely affects the work and the business, which expects us to do other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 17 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 69, against 22, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u85	There is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Alexander Ivanov, Daniela Saveklieva and Evgenia Angelova to create § 18. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words issued in accordance with the Decree on the terms and conditions for printing and control of securities (prom., SG No. ...) shall be replaced by "printed" according to the order provided for the printing of securities. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The Council of Ministers shall determine by regulation the terms and conditions for printing and control of securities. Persons wishing to print securities shall submit a notification to the Ministry of Finance. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The amendment of § 18 aims to align the Ordinance on the terms and conditions of printing and control of securities with the provisions of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of the business relating to the introduction of a regulatory regime, as well as to maintain the control of the fiscal correctness of persons interested in printing securities. In support of the above, it is also the fact that, in certain cases, the securities to which the current regime under the Regulations applies At the same time, along with ensuring effective protection of the financial interest of the state, the proposed texts lead to a reduction of the administrative burden for citizens and businesses by easing the existing regime for printing securities from a confirmatory to a notification. The amendments provided for do not require any additional funds. The expected results of the implementation of the proposed change are alignment of the Ordinance with the provisions of the Law on limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business and reducing the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by easing the existing regime for printing securities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u88	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u89	I would agree with her motives and with everything you've said, because this change is good if everything was done accordingly. I think that only less than two months ago we made changes to the Accounting Act, and if that change had been made there, it would indeed have been a reduction in administrative burden. In doing so, it is an administrative burden, it is a confusing legislation and I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u90	Thank you. Is there another line? I don't see any desire for another line. A hole? There won't be. Any other speeches? There are no requests for other speeches. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 18 in the version proposed in the Commission Report. Vote 87 MPs: 63 against 24 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u91	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Alexander Ivanov, Daniela Saveklieva and Evgenia Angelova for the creation of § 19. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on Private Security Activities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 2, para. 3, p. 2 the Bulgarian National Bank and the companies in which it participates are added after the word "Financials."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u92	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In connection with the proposed newly created § 19, I would like to give a little more detailed information about what the thought behind our proposal was. Here is proposed a change in the Law on Private Security Activities, namely to add the Bulgarian National Bank and the companies in which it participates. The Bulgarian National Bank is a body established by law and entrusted with certain functions, objectives, tasks 2 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank. The main goal of the Bulgarian National Bank as Central Bank is to maintain price stability by ensuring the stability of the national currency. In the exercise of the statutory functions and duties of the Bulgarian National Bank at the sites which are owned or used by it in connection with the implementation of its legal powers, money is constantly stored. They are necessary to ensure the available monetary circulation of the country. The assurance of their security is, of course, of paramount importance. In accordance with the repealed Private Security Act, the Bulgarian National Bank implements self-security through its own unit, which is responsible for its security and security of buildings and parts of buildings used by the Bulgarian National Bank. Under the law in force on private security activity, the Bulgarian National Bank does not fall within the specified entities under art. 2, para. 3 of this law, which have the right to continue to carry out self-preservation activities. The current license to carry out the security activities of the Bulgarian National Bank's self-guarding unit will be terminated within one year of the entry into force of this law. After this deadline, the Bulgarian National Bank will not have the right to carry out self-security, such as activity is imperative, I think we all realize, with a view to ensuring the security of the bank itself. In relation to everything I have put forward so far, it is necessary and, of course, justified that the Bulgarian National Bank as a body entrusted with important functions of national importance, as well as the companies in which it is involved, should be included in the circle of bodies and institutions referred to in art. 2, para. 3 of the Law on Private Security Activities, which are entitled to carry out self-security of their own or used property. I trust that this newly formed paragraph in the Law will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u95	Dear colleagues! The text that is being offered to us is probably important, but this shows again the frivolous attitude, unfortunately, and the Bulgarian National Bank, because you see that this law has entered into force with No. 10 of 2018. To solve this problem, today we are in this situation, once again stressing to violate our rules, which is also a law. We will not support this text. Yes, it may really be important, but by 31 March, there is plenty of time to make a separate VID to be tabled and voted in the appropriate order. I believe that the Bulgarian National Bank would like to do its legislation in this way, because I do not see the connection between private security activities and the Law to which this is included, namely the Internal Control Act. Colleagues, we will not support this. I understand that whatever is tabled by the majority, it will be supported. Again, I say that this does not look like an institution such as the Bulgarian National Bank and thus change its legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. A line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Turnovalliski, I understand from your speech the following: you know that this text is generally important, you are willing to support it, but slightly, referring to you as well, the wrong way of bringing about the change, you will not support it. I take that a little bit stubborn. Accept, the text is important! It can really be worked in the context of the Law and this supplement, which is for the Bulgarian National Bank, albeit in the Private Security Act, is important for the functioning of the Bulgarian National Bank and its related companies. I therefore urge you to reconsider your view of not supporting this text and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other lines? There are no requests for a second line. Here you go, Mr. Turnovalyski, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u99	Dear Mr. Ivanov, you surprised me very much. I believe that with your cue, you called on the hall and us on the left to disregard the law. I believe that we are in this room and that is why we are sent here to be the first to comply with and comply with legislation. So we don't do it stubbornly, but just because we want there to be legality and the first to obey the laws, it's us. I urge you not to support it, even if it is your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u100	Thank you. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There are no requests to make a statement. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal for the creation of § 19 in the version proposed and recorded in the Commission Report. They voted 102 MPs: for 76, against 26, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, honourable Members, I propose a re-voting procedure, as there was a movement in the Chamber, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov came in and out, other colleagues entered and could not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u102	Thank you. I will re-vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19. They voted 106 MPs: for 76, against 29, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u103	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Alexander Ivanov, Daniela Saveklieva and Evgenia Angelova for the creation of § 20. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." periodically prepare an impartial and comprehensive assessment of the macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, including a follow-up assessment. b) Previous t. 7, 8 and 9 are respectively t. 8, 9 and 10. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, p. 3 words.............................................................................. 6, para. 1, t. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u104	Thank you. Are there any speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Ilieva, to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, to point out the reasons which lead to amendments to the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms, I would like to give a little background to this amendment. In 2011, in the framework of a comprehensive reform to strengthen economic governance in the European Union, Council Directive 2011/85 of 8 November 2011 on requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks was adopted. This Directive introduces certain requirements for national budgetary forecasts, medium-term budgetary frameworks and national numerical and fiscal rules. To comply with the latter, the Directive provides that there must be effective and timely monitoring carried out by independent institutions with functional autonomy in relation to the fiscal authorities of the Member States. On 28 November 2013, the National Assembly adopted a Law on ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden. According to the Declaration on Art. 14, § 5 of the Treaty, Bulgaria undertakes to apply, with effect from 1 January 2014, Title III of the Treaty, which builds and further strengthens the rules on enhanced economic governance in the European Union adopted in 2011. The provisions of the Treaty state that compliance with the fiscal rules laid down therein must be respected by independent national institutions. In the light of the above, the establishment of an independent fiscal authority and the establishment of corrective mechanisms are commitments arising for the Republic of Bulgaria from the legislation in the European Union on budgetary management. The Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms give the Council powers to monitor compliance with the numerical fiscal rules set out in the Public Finance Act and relating to the public administration sector and the consolidated fiscal programme. Among the Council's functions are the preparation of opinions on the spring and autumn macroeconomic forecasts of the Minister of Finance, based on them the medium-term budgetary forecast and the public provision for the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and the budget of the Ministry of Health. In addition, the Council should draw up a reasoned opinion on the accounts for the implementation of the state budget, the budget of the DEA and other social security funds administered by the National Insurance Institute and the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Fiscal Council and automatic corrective mechanisms has for the main purpose an addition of art. 6, para. 1 in view of the full transposition of the Directive which I have pointed out to you "Council Directive 2011/5 of 8 November 2011 on the requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States. With the adoption of the changes, the Fiscal Council will carry out a periodic assessment of the macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts of the Ministry of Finance as well as a subsequent ex post evaluation. The ex post evaluation will be drawn up periodically, for example once every one to three years, and will cover a period of at least four consecutive years. As regards the envisaged amendment in § 2, it has a technical nature and is related to a change of numbering in the previous points in the Law. The amendments to the Fiscal Council Act and automatic corrective mechanisms aim at fulfilling the obligation laid down in Council Directive 2011/85 to carry out periodic ex post evaluations, and this addition to the texts in the Fiscal Council Act will strengthen the national fiscal framework and confirm the role of the Fiscal Council as an independent observer of fiscal rules. The additional objective of the proposal is to improve the quality of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. If I can summarize what I have said briefly, the amendments to the said Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms will not lead to an increase in additional public expenditure, will increase fiscal and budgetary transparency, will ensure the stability and long-term sustainability of public finances, will increase the quality of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. It concerns supplementing the powers of the Fiscal Board to carry out a periodic ex-post evaluation of macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts. It will also strengthen the role of the Fiscal Council as an independent observer of fiscal rules. All this will result in the full alignment of the requirements of Council Directive 2011/85 of 8 November 2011 on requirements for the budgetary frameworks of the Member States.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Are there any lines? I don't see any line requests. For your statement, Mr. Turnover, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A well-motivated proposal, but not in the way it had to be made. This is another fifth opinion that the Fiscal Council will have to draw up. Colleagues, I do not know who is familiar with and who is following these opinions, but in relation to the changes you have adopted in the National Revenue Agency Act, in relation to the opinions they give by the Fiscal Council, I want to tell you that I feel that this is purely formal, because in the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the State Budget 2017 the conclusions show that the assessment and planning of macroeconomic indicators are insufficient. Also in the opinion of the Fiscal Council on the 2018 budget, there is a proposal regarding the planning of revenue and expenditure, which I have not understood to have been taken into account when drawing up, when voting, when debating budgets for the relevant years. I am under the impression that this is purely formal to implement a directive, to have such a Fiscal Council in order to be equal to foreigners. I think there should be more weight on the documents that are drawn up in the Fiscal Council, and that burden should be given to us. In this regard, we are debtors to this procedure and this so important Council. These opinions should be commented. However, since we are not having a debate and we are not discussing the report on the implementation of the budget for the year in question, there is no way to expect that any opinions of some Fiscal Council will be submitted in this House, which is not good. Thank you. We will not support the text for the reasons I have said now and for the previous ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? There are no lines to the statement. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 20 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 68 against 27, no abstentions. The proposal was adopted, and with this at second reading and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act with an importer, the Council of Ministers adopted on 20 November 2018 on the first vote on 13 December 2018. Dear MPs, after the holiday we will continue our work with the first vote of the Bill on Population Census and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u109	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, continue the sitting with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR REFUNTING THE SETTLEMENT AND LIVE FUND IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2021 No 802-01-56, implemented by the MINISTER COUNCIL OF 4 DECEMBER 2018 We begin with a Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Alexandrov, you're welcome to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe under the Law on Population and Housing Census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 23 January 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Population and Housing in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021. The meeting was attended by: Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister; Sergey Tsvetarski, Chairman of the National Statistical Institute; Silvia Georgieva, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria; experts. The bill was presented by Tomislav Donchev. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed Draft is to collect comprehensive, reliable, detailed and comparable data on the population and housing fund in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The data will be collected in accordance with the principles of professional independence, transparency, impartiality, objectivity, reliability and statistical efficiency. 17 censuses of the population have been conducted so far, the latter being in 2011. The periodicity is about 10 years old. The next one is intended for 2021. The European Commission needs reliable, detailed and comparable data on the population and the main family, social, economic and housing characteristics of individuals to determine social and regional policies. In this context, the development of the Bill and the provision of the necessary information take into account the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on population and housing censuses and Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/543, Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/712 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/881. The census in 2021 should not be considered as purely statistical activity. It will serve the information needs of a wide range of specialists in and outside the government, who in their activities need rich and accurate information. The Bill establishes the general rules of preparation, conduct, processing and dissemination of census data. When selecting a reference date for the census (22 January 2021) the possible foreseeable events have been taken into account for the preparation and conduct of the census. The bill provides for the necessary data for the census to be collected directly by the natural persons of the census, as well as by the administrative units where necessary. There is an obligation of public and local authorities, supporting information systems, registers and other sources of information created on the basis of law, to provide them free of charge to the National Statistical Institute. The same obligation is laid down for legal entities that maintain information systems and registers in the exercise of powers on behalf of public or local authorities on the basis of a regulatory act. The necessary data on persons and dwellings subject to surveillance will be collected by counting cards and a censuser or via the Internet by filling in an electronic form and the data on residential buildings by counting cards and counting agent. The draft regulation regulates counting bodies directly involved in the preparation, organisation and conduct of elections, indicating their composition, functions and duties. The bill regulates the trial census, the preliminary field tour, the country's zoning of control areas and counting sections, the drawing up of the counting lists, and the census itself. The data confidentiality policy, access to information and dissemination of final results is clearly defined. The bill regulates the provision of the funds needed for the census in all its stages. The cost of the census will be 38,262 thousand. BGN, including the development of a new electronic counting platform. Administrative criminal provisions are provided for in the failure to comply with the obligations under this law. In the Additional Provisions only within the meaning of this Law, a definition of a number of categories used is given. The Bill shall be subject to a comprehensive preliminary impact assessment as well as to the required references under art. 76, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After the end of the discussion and vote, with results of 17 votes for the House, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: it proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Population Census and the Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u111	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Following is a Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who will present the report? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on Population and Housing Census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 13 December 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Law on Population Census and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2018. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Mr. Sergey Tsvetarski, Chairman of the National Statistical Institute, Mrs. Diana Yancheva, Vice-President, Mrs. Magdalena Kostova, Director of the Department of Demographic and Social Statistics and Mrs. Silvia Georgieva, Executive Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Sergey Tsvetarski. The population and housing census is the largest comprehensive statistical survey and one of the main sources for data collection on the number and characteristics of the population and housing fund in the country. The Republic of Bulgaria, as a Member State of the European Union, is obliged under Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 on population and housing censuses to apply its provisions directly and to provide detailed data to the Commission (Eurostat) covering certain demographic, social and economic characteristics of persons, families and households, as well as to the housing fund at national, regional and local level. Pursuant to Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/712 laying down the reference year and the statistical and metadata programme for population and housing censuses, the Republic of Bulgaria is to conduct a population and housing census in 2021. The census data are also needed in the decision-making process at national level for the allocation of public finances in different areas, such as education, health, social protection, investment, as well as in the development of national and regional policies and in the classification of the Community regions for the implementation of the Cohesion Policy and the allocation of European funds to Member States. The main objective of the Law is to ensure the collection, processing and provision of up-to-date, reliable, comprehensive and detailed statistical information in three main directions: - number of population and housing in the Republic of Bulgaria (total for the country and for administrative and territorial units); - structure of the population by gender, age, education, economic activity and other demographic and ethnocultural signs; - characteristics of the residential fund in the country. The proposed bill governs the preparation, organisation and conduct of the census in 2021. The Law lays down the general rules for collection, processing and dissemination of data on the population and housing fund received from the census. The bill shall set 22 January 2021 for the reference date to which the data collected during the census will relate. The period for preparing and carrying out the census shall be consistent with the preparation and conduct of two electoral processes in 2021. For MPs, and for President and Vice President, in view of the commitments of municipal administrations in the electoral and counting process. The census will take place from 22 January to 15 February 2021. The draft sets out the authorities of the census, the National Statistical Institute, the Central Commission for the census, the territorial statistical offices, the district and municipal census committees, their powers are regulated, and with regard to the committees the composition, formation and organisation of their activities. The Bill explicitly specifies the information to be collected for the population, households, buildings and dwellings. In addition to the information required under European law, additional information will be collected for national purposes: - in relation to persons.................................................................................... - as regards housing/buildings, energy efficiency, material security, services and others. The provision of art. 21, para. 2 of the Statistics Act for the voluntary provision of information on ethnicity, religion and health. The bill provides for the adoption of a census programme to be submitted by the Council of Ministers within three months of the promulgation of the law. The Bill clearly defines the data confidentiality policy, access to information and dissemination of final results in accordance with national and European legislation. It is explicitly stated that the subject of personal data collected and processed during the census cannot benefit from the rights under art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The impact assessment carried out found that the difference between the regulatory benefits of 54 555,07 thousand. BGN, and regulatory expenses BGN, for the period from the adoption of the Law to the next census is 1 217.90 thousand. lv. The necessary funds shall be made available from the central budget and allocated in four consecutive years from 2019 to 2022. The representatives of the National Association of Municipalities expressed their opinion in support of the Bill, readiness to work together with the National Statistical Institute and made recommendations for the clarification of certain specific requirements when carrying out the census with a view to securing the data for the implementation of the changes in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees on the Fee for Domestic Waste. During the discussion the MPs supported the need to draw up and adopt the Law. On specific questions asked by the members of the Commission concerning the collection of information on ethnicity and belief of individuals in view of the upcoming changes to the Religions Act, the representatives of the National Statistical Institute made clarifications on the possibilities for the lawful collection of such data on a voluntary basis. The organisation and technical implementation of the activities provided for in the Bill were also clarified. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Bill on Population Census and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u113	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! In the proposed bill, no one sees any problem, but when we return the situation in 2011, when the previous census, then we had long talks with the National Statistical Institute on mandatory and optional graphs in the census, and also with the listing of certain ethnic groups, which are rather ethnographic groups than ethnic groups. After long disputes we were able to solve some of these problems then, but the main problem remained that in the columns for ethnicity of the census and in the columns for religious affiliation was actually done so that both the respondents and the census over the Internet gave a large part of the Bulgarian citizens the opportunity not to indicate their ethnic or religious affiliation which is their right and no one obliges them. But the methodology itself, the way it's done, you see two pages where it says it's not mandatory, and they don't even read it. Our idea is to make a person enter these graphs and point out that he does not wish to point out ethnic or religious origin, rather than simply pass them. Because what did you get on the previous count? Totally distorted data! In fact, Bulgaria ethnically turned out to be with a much smaller proportion of ethnic Bulgarians than before. In Bulgaria, approximately one million people did not indicate their ethnicity. Only four million and something have indicated that they are Orthodox Christians, which we all know is not the case. The same applies to Muslims who are in Bulgaria because the percentage is quite low there too. In other words, this data is distorted and does not correspond to reality and truth. It is true that there are international treaties and conventions that allow people not to be harassed on religious or ethnic grounds, and therefore they are not obliged to point it out. Yes, it is, everyone has the right not to point out their ethnic or religious affiliation. But we have to make sure that when this census is carried out, so do the methodology, the maps themselves and the website itself, that people still read what they can indicate if they want to indicate it. Because this insanity, which was the last time, we actually turned out to be the country where the Christian population suddenly fell sharply from all over the world, didn't we? But it's totally falling by a million and a half, which is insane! Separately, the same is true, if you will, of the ethnic Bulgarians, of the ethnic Turks and of the ethnic gypsies, all of a sudden fell sharply. It's like these people don't exist, but we have to count the fridge or the color TV, which is just funny, right? Our request is that all the parliamentary groups pay attention to these problems, whether this National Assembly will then act or not, yet a part of the people who are here will still be in politics, and let us make sure that we really get a real idea of the Bulgarian population. Let us not in any way allow these data to be distorted and then abused on the back of the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u115	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the first time, I will agree with what Mr. Angelov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u117	The line is still a disagreement, but let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u118	No, I have only a remark that these graphs, which are referred to under the European directive of 2008, are really not mandatory. We can point out to fit in with these graphs: I do not wish to indicate what ethnic group or what religious group I am. This will also reflect on this law, which we adopted for religion, because there, relative to the number of people of the believers in the Republic of Bulgaria, certain subsidies will be allocated and the statistical study should indicate this number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u119	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u120	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ali! Two miracles have happened. One is that we have an agreement on a topic with representatives of the DPS, and, secondly, two representatives of the DPS argued here - Mrs. Jeffer and Mr. Ali, which is also nice. This is democracy on speeches. I also agree that this is the way. It may be considered, Mr. Ali, whether there is any need to change the Law on Statistics and whether it is admissible by what we have had as talks and whether it will really comply with international conventions and agreements should be assessed. But most of all, the way this can happen is through the methodology itself and naturally by instructing and correct information to all people who will count and participate in the census itself, so maybe that's where we need to focus our efforts. Otherwise, any proposal that will solve these problems, we would support it because we believe that there should be real and objective information about the population of Bulgaria and not distorted data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-30.u121	Thank you. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We're going to vote. I put to the first vote the Bill on Population and Housing Census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2018. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposal and the bill have been passed. With this, honourable Members, we have finished the work for today. We will proceed tomorrow in accordance with the adopted agenda. Abandoning session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
