ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period 9 October 2019: "1." Second vote on the Bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. A joint draft, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote on 25 September 2019 with importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 2 September 2019; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 September 2019; Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs on 5 September 2019. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019. Adopted in first vote on 26 September 2019. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 September 2019. Adopted at first vote on 26 September 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 10 October 2019 4. Draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency (importers: Krasimir Tsipov, Alexander Ivanov, Manoil Manev, Valentin Kasabov, Halil Letifov, Rumen Gechev, Zhelio Boychev and Emil Dimitrov on 3 October 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 11 October 2019 5. Parliamentary control. I put to the vote the proposed Work Programme for the period 9 October 2019. They voted 137 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 24. Program accepted. I will introduce you to the following drafts and resolutions for the period 2 "October 8, 2019: Draft extension decision for the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. People's representatives Krasimir Tsipov, Alexander Ivanov, Manoil Manev, Valentin Kasabov, Halil Letifov, Rumen Gechev, Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Dimitrov are involved. Draft amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, Report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018; Annual Report and Report on the activity of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system for 2018 and Annual Report on the state debt for 2018. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. We have four bills in total. Let's start with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, dear Mrs. Alexandrova, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote a procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Justice Evgeni Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u3	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. They voted 129 MPs: 126, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u4	"Report on the General Law, No 953-03-68 from 1 October 2019, of the first vote adopted on 25 September 2019: Bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-60, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 2 September 2019; Bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-61, submitted by Iskren Vassilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 September 2019 and Bill supplementing the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-01-63, submitted by Veselin Naydenov Mareshki and a group of MPs on 5 September 2019. The Criminal Procedure Code is attached to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Commission supports the wording of the importers on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importers to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 138 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u6	According to paragraph, the only one has a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Tzipov and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... A "Acceptances in which an abridged judicial investigation is not permitted Art. 369a. A shortened judicial investigation in the cases referred to in art. 371, t. 2 shall not be allowed to cause death intentionally.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u7	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u8	Dear MPs, severe bodily harm leads to permanent disorder of human health. Damage caused irreversibly affects health and hence the life of damage. They affect not only his physical status, but also his psychological status, because the damaged person does not feel a full citizen. It is not fair for these crimes to remain within the circle of crimes to which the abridged judicial investigation applies. We face the following dilemma: speed or justice? Since law is an art of justice, justice is a priority. These are also public expectations. People expect a court order to be fair and give retribution, but that justice must be given in the acts within reasonable time limits. The very speed of the criminal trial does not guarantee that. I would like to respond to some of the arguments of our opponents yesterday in the Legal Committee that the examination of such cases in general order will result in their delay and delay for years. However, the examination of these cases in general can also end with a fair verdict in cases in which there are numerous extenuating circumstances. Then the court will deliver its act under the terms of Article. 55 of the Penal Code, that is to say, it can go below the minimum of what is foreseen for this punishment. We therefore believe that the remaining serious bodily damage in the procedure under Chapter Twenty-Seven of the Code of Criminal Procedure is not fair. I would like to point out that the prosecution's opinion is in that direction as well. It appears from yesterday's reference to the Legal Commission's meeting that, for the period 2015 to 2019, 567 convicted and sanctioned persons under these texts of Law 156 of them were imposed in the order of the abridged judicial investigation, i.e. one third of the sanctioned persons. Therefore, honourable Members, we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a pity that once we have reached a consensus not only between us, but to a large extent between law enforcement authorities and the expert community, we are once again entering into contradictions that do not meet either the public reasons that caused this debate or the professional reasoning that we have expressed and which seem to have brought us together at first reading. It is clear from the public's perspective what caused these changes. All summer there was talk about them to such an extent that pό last week had broaches. And thanks to the initiative of BSP and our President Cornelia Ninova, we have assembled the Conference of Presidents, on which I am wrong, we agreed that before we go on vacation this problem will be resolved in the way it was proposed then by three parliamentary groups. Today, it is proposed that this text be seriously mutilated and that severe bodily damage be dropped as a criterion for not carrying out the abridged judicial investigation. On a professional level, I believe that this proposal is not supported. It is obvious that the basis of the question is in the principle of consistency between the punishment and the offence, a principle which is under pressure both from the procedure for a shortened judicial investigation and from other procedures for speeding up the process, such as the agreement. This pressure can be justified and unwarranted. A political issue, a question of proper definition of public expectations, of the public dangers of acts, is that we, as legislator, set the limit. Since BSP for years, we have argued that this limit is where crime leads to the most serious damage to the fundamental good placed highest in the hierarchy of our understandings, namely human life and physical integrity. That's where the border stands! All the arguments that explain that this will lead to longer trials, possible difficulties, are true, but they apply to any crime! We cannot leave in this case, as the colleague Niva said a moment ago, the idea of speed, of speed to be at the expense of the idea of achieving the objectives of punishment, one of which is the punishment in itself, another of which is prevention, individual and general. And here it seemed to me that we had an understanding, I say once again, and I don't see why you're exciting this debate, all the more so than yesterday's statistics show that these cases aren't so much. Moreover, in your so-called alternative proposal, certain crimes have also been identified, which must also, in your opinion, be subject to different treatment in the abridged judicial investigation or its consequences. In public policy, that's also wrong. Why? Because the severe sense of inadequacy of punishment will manifest itself tomorrow in connection with a crime that will result in severe bodily damage and cause people to react! And we, instead of solving this issue today and giving some simple sustainability of the legislative process, will find ourselves in the same situation in just a few months, with the same debate and with the same reactions! From the whole procedure that today had to end with the categorical termination of the possibility of a shortened judicial investigation for crimes that lead to death or severe bodily harm, I was under the impression that the big problem is that the ruling majority does not understand and does not know exactly what it wants! It puts us in front of a decision that they adopted; you started stalling for reasons that remain unclear to this day. First, by opening the Penal Code, which, by the way, you have tried to insert here again. [[the President signals that time has run out]] ; and, secondly, with these decisions that seem to want to show that you do not fall on your back. This isn't about falling on your back...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u12	...it's up to us to do our job, ladies and gentlemen of the House. So please, especially those who initially supported the text...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u13	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u14	...let's stay on the option we agreed on. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I'm taking a cue because you speak very widely of the ruling majority. The United Patriarchs Group continues to stand behind the text it originally submitted. We believe that we should not exclude from the text the cases of severe bodily harm, as indeed these are cases of extremely severe health damage. However, we shouldn't thicken the frescoes as much as we should, because after a nearly four-year struggle to rule out at least severe, scandalous, terrifying cases, if you will, of murders that have stunned the entire nation, I think that's a good step. But in any case, we continue to stand in the position that severe bodily harm must be excluded from the scope of the abridged judicial investigation for a number of reasons, much of which you have listed. So please be more careful with the address of your criticism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Second line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, I share your arguments regarding serious bodily harm, but I regret that yesterday at the meeting of the Legal Commission there were too few colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria. If more colleagues were present, it is not at all certain that the result would be the one recorded in the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen Vesselinov and Mitev! First of all, thank you for supporting the right decision, what you have brought in after us, because it is good to talk for a long time, but it also needs to be written, and importing, or else it will not come to this room. With regard to the fact that you are part of the ruling majority, you are making the right decision in this case and I hope you will defend it. It is not a question of who has done how much in committee we have done our work, we have written the text, we have provoked the debate, thanks to us he is here today and not in a month, two or three. So we did our job. Please do your job now. Look, when you're in charge, you can't just have honey on the honey stinger. You are responsible for any decision that makes this ruling majority, of which you are part. Otherwise, there is another limit, other than the one we are talking about under the Penal Code, and it is how far a compromise goes in order to participate in power. You are also facing this issue today, my respects.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Shopov, you wanted the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u22	It has been mentioned that the change has been made under public pressure and discontent for several months now. No, honourable Members, not a few months ago, this tension has been smoldering for years and society has suffered from the change made since 2006. Then this ridiculous institute of rapid production has been introduced into the vortex of liberal vakhanalia and since then a number of problems have been created in the administration of justice. We of Ataka then took a stand against him! As always, this position we stand for in the decades and we have come to this point. During the first reading from the tribune of Ataka, we expressed our position that we are to drop this entire Institute of Fast Production................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What are we witnessing? At the moment, the Commission presents us with its decision the softest option - not even for serious crimes, but only for murders! I predict that a year or two or three will pass and a new proposal will be tabled in this Chamber, public tension will continue on various occasions, there will continue to be a sense of frustration, a sense of unpunishedness, because this institute has exactly this task to caress criminals! And it's been going on for all these 13 years. And he fell into law enforcement in a way that caress criminals, in a softening indictment, let's call it that! Because there's an indictment, and he's the opposite when the prosecution does it and when everything is more severely punishable. But, colleagues, here in the genesis of the problem lies the fact, notice, there is a way that is called the It shall be applied in any case at the discretion of the court where there are mitigating circumstances All we're talking about is rapid production, it's just an exit from this basic situation, it's maiming penal repression, and I'm telling you, for ideological, liberal reasons. If it was a positive step to do something in this direction, then this step is absolutely insufficient with what we are taking and which we are striving to deal with today only with the killings. There are so many serious crimes in which this institute is implemented that this action will be absolutely insufficient, this step and in a couple of years you will see that not the satisfaction in society, but the thrilling, bitter taste of the unpunishedness of the people, the criminals will remain in the Bulgarian society. We're barely doing anything today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow Members! Mr. Zarkov, you are Krum Zarkov. You are not Khan Krum. Introducing old legislation: eye for eye, tooth for tooth, tooth for jaw, white nails to elbow, cutting heads to the waist is something that is absolutely in the past. You're asking for life without exchange for any other convictions. If you were in the Commission yesterday, this proposal, which is both ours and yours, would have passed you. I abstained. But I have something else to say. Statistics were presented to the Commission yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, out of 156 crimes, we have eliminated those connected to the deliberate killings, both of them, removed 146 and left 10 cases in five years! Do you know how many of these cases are for severe bodily harm? The huge number of a case.. a case in which this person took advantage, but it is not clear whether he received a reduction in the sentence. And we are now commenting on this case. The colleague from Ataka is wonderful idea to change and cancel this whole tool. With statistics language: if we only had one case of severe bodily harm and he took advantage, it turns out that 100% of those who have committed severe bodily harm in the last five years have benefited. And it's a case! With the same language of statistics, we can say that from the MPs in this National Assembly, everyone who has been accused has taken 100% advantage of this measure because a leader of yours is taking advantage of this measure to reduce the punishment that you now want to drop! I can in his defense say that he not only made an agreement, but the court did not acknowledge his agreement and doubled his punishment. If we go into statistics because it is something like the swimsuits, it shows almost everything, but hides the most important, should we now say that all who have committed bodily harm in Bulgaria in the last five years have taken advantage of this tool? And it was only one case - it is not clear whether he received a reduction or that all MPs also benefited, and it was only one, and instead of getting a reduction, they received a double sentence, which is also unprecedented. Here, we have a Bulgarian MP, he has made an agreement, he has made for one year the court said: "I don't give you credit for that. Yes, but two. " - In my opinion, it was not fair at the time that this agreement was not recognised. Statistics is something everyone plays with. The truth is that in this room we have gathered and 240 people have been sitting for months for the last five years for the fact that a person who has caused severe bodily harm has benefited from this measure, but it is not certain that he has received it. And yesterday, by rejecting half of our offer, only for the murders, of 156 cases in the last five years, 146 rejected them, they will receive full punishment. I would like to recall the words of the Prosecutor General: In the court it is decided by.................................. Volen Siderov, he received a double punishment, but he took advantage of this instrument, you now want to remove him as well. He got double-crossed incredibly unfair! In the same way, not all of these 146 have received, but of the other 10, which are different types of crimes... And yesterday the Justice Minister explicitly said that he wanted this debate to be after the elections, because now under pressure, with the desire to please the voters, we are in a hurry to resolve it. My fellow Members, the entire room here, however, has been dealing with one case for the past five years! This man probably didn't even get a sentence relief or a reduction. What we took to the Commission as a decision, because you would not have had a majority, is to drop only the killings. The heavy body couldn't get through. We will abstain. If you were there, they'd have gone both ways. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you are a reviewer, but your style is far from Gogol. Your understanding of criminal law and the way you read statistics shows only two things: firstly, you have no idea of the things you are talking about, secondly, you have no idea of the position of your parliamentary group. The heavy bodily damage and even what they say from "Attack" about the complete cancellation of the abridged consequence, which I think would be a mistake, is a long-standing position of your group. The group you're a member of. I don't know how many of you were yesterday, what were you talking about? You have mentioned the Attorney General, he supports the proposal in his first version, as we have submitted it. As well as the judges, by the way, put forward the alternative options, chose the one we propose. There is no doubt that the situation in which we are put is the right thing to do in relation to the decisions that we are going to make. From now on, who was yesterday I don't know, let's see who he is and how he voted, because you are part of this majority, not us. What we do is we do our job, and as an opposition, we gave you the text you've been talking about for three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u27	Thank you. Second line Mr. Notev and third line Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one sentence to confirm that Mr. Dimitrov doesn't know what we're talking about in this room. We are talking about another, different procedure than the one that you referred to when you gave the example with the party president. An agreement with the prosecution and its approval by the court is something radically different, very different from what we're talking about today. Not only on the subject we're discussing murder and bodily damage, because it's technology. You know, it's about recognition of the facts and a professional reduction of the penalty by a third. Such a procedure has not been carried out. Please be correct and accurate, especially when quoting specific cases and addressing the national representation with examples from our circles. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. Mr. Vesselinoff, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u30	Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I disagree, and I dispute the claim that this case has not received its reduction in the sentence. He got it because there's automation at this institute, and that's one of the main problems of attacking him. I can add that I do not agree with the thesis that the BSP prepared this text because they simply took our text, which we submitted in 2015. Only we then supported it from the Patriotic Front when it was viewed in the Chamber, it was a proposal between first and second reading, and we then submitted it again as a separate bill. Unfortunately, he never saw a review of the Legal Commission, respectively entering the Chamber. So these are the things I want to add. True, now that years of our attack in the media have created that public wave that we've been aiming for, there are many heroes who want to wear this thesis, but the truth is that only we Patriots have been fighting consecutively for four years to revise this institute. The truth is that this change is very important to drop the killings is a good step forward, but justice also requires severe bodily harm to be dropped from the Institute's shortened judicial investigation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zarkov, the statistic I was quoting is not mine. It was presented yesterday when you were absent by Deputy Prosecutor General Shishkova at the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Whatever your claims to statistics, interpretation of statistics, turn to the Prosecutor's Office! If it were yesterday, you'd hear them yourself. You do! Regarding my colleague, Notev. You have declared yourself against this opportunity. Concentrate on which part of yourself! However, you have taken this opportunity once and I see nothing wrong with it. Whether you like it or not, my speech is taking advantage of your leader. I think it was right, I think it was right, and I think it was wrong to double the penalty. But if you're against this instrument, it's your right, I'm not against it. With regard to our conduct yesterday in the Commission. We declared ourselves against the GERB proposal and did not support it. If it were you there, the result would be different. Don't tell us your own guilt, responsibility and explanation that the statistics didn't understand it, and you're the only one who understands it, the entire prosecution doesn't understand anything, the whole trial! Of course, today everyone makes their dividends to please the voter. The fact is, however, that yesterday there was undisputed evidence, undisputed statistics and allegations of all concerned in this round, and the Minister of Justice, was also the Prosecutor's Office, and there were colleagues who spoke. Some remembered the past and said that there was this Penal Code among our ancestors, and there was murder in it. Now he's gone. So let us be clear: we have not supported this text and in full composition our parliamentary group was there. Neither I nor Mr. Christian Mitev have supported the loss of severe bodily harm. So if there's a problem, he's with you. Don't try to hide behind anyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. We are continuing with speeches by Mr. Ermenkov and Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Genesis of the problem you remember him in the cruel crime of Sotiya. It escalated the tension, it caused the protests, it made us finally address the problem we are currently discussing. You remember that little Christine was found in a severe state, barely breathing at the entrance to the village. [[Noise and lines.]] And I'm asking you... [[Noise and lines.]] And I ask you, if doctors had shown miracles of heroism by accident, although past tense wouldn't, and saved that girl's life, would this crime be less of a crime and deserve less punishment? I'm asking you not to do anything else, I'm asking you because the crime has been committed, the actions have been done, and only thanks to the doctors, I would say, once again conditionally, this child could remain alive. And you, with your decision, which you propose to remove the heavy bodily damage from this text, would have made this person justified or unjustly reduced his punishment. That doesn't make sense! That's not human! And I'm asking you to come to your senses! Accept that when it comes to violence over the highest human benefit of his life, and physical abuse of his health, leading to severe consequences, there can be no compromise with the verdict! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u36	Dear Bulgarian citizens, today's debate has become too expert and a little confused because we have confused several legal institutions. That is why I would like to speak differently. What's this about? If today someone rapes and kills a child and confesses to his guilt, his sentence is reduced by a third. Then it can be reduced again because he has improved in prison, he can also be pardoned. This is the actual state at the moment. The Bulgarian Socialist Party proposed that in the event of severe bodily damage and murder or severe bodily damage leading to death there should be no such shortened production in recognition. To have a life sentence without parole. We think that's fair. Colleagues from GERB mutilated this text and left only murders without the other serious crimes. And now, to try to explain what that means. Dear Bulgarians, if someone does this to you: causes you to have a continuous disorder of consciousness, permanent blindness with one or both eyes, permanent deafness, loss of speech, childbearing inability, disfigurement, which causes permanent speech disorder or sensory organ, loss of one kidney, spleen or lung wing, loss or mutilation of a leg or arm, permanent general health disorder, dangerous to your life, that is, severe bodily damage if someone causes you this and leaves you for life in danger of you due to general health disorder, gone and admitted it, according to GERB, this person should be subject to a reduced sentence by one third. And if he's good in prison, he could be reduced to more parole, he could be pardoned. That's heavy bodily harm! That's what we're talking about today. And the following arguments are made: little was the statistics of such crimes committed or if we eliminate the abridged production, the process will become very slow and very expensive. Imagine what someone can do to you and walk free on the street tomorrow while you spend your whole life in a hospital with a life-threatening danger, against which you are told: "Ama, the statistics are small. " - Statistics or justice and retribution?! Speed of trial or justice and retribution?! I thank the Prosecutor's Office and the judges in Bulgaria, who in this case stood unanimously behind BSP's proposal, although they will be the victims because they will complicate the process. However, dignified and professionally they said: "It is a need for justice. " Once upon a time, we had the debate about the minor cases because of the huge domestic crime. As you know, in such cases in the villages, the procedure is special. In order for justice to be done, we said let's discuss, consider, change the minor case. Well, no! This side. [[shows right]] No, no, no, Now we say: let's discuss, let's discuss, let's remove the abridged production of the worst crimes and murder. No, on the right, by GERB [[shows right]] No, no, no, no, no, no, My conclusion is only one: as long as GERB rules the country, there will be no justice, honourable Bulgarians. Change is in your hands. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The debate we are leading after these bills have been submitted is whether there should be a fair punishment. However, honourable Members, whether to have a fair punishment is not decided in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The texts are in the penal code. We heard speculation: GERB was guilty of this or that of lack of justice. Let us recall that when the first limitation of the abridged judicial investigation was introduced, honourable Members, this happened because of the fact that there were sentences under the minimum. So, when you are talking about fair punishment, then, when the scope of the abridged judicial investigation is limited, have the courage to respond to the victims and victims, can we guarantee with the changes to the Criminal Procedure Code, not the Criminal Code, that we will not have a minimum sentence. Let's be honest. We can't give this guarantee that's the answer. Even if we limit the abridged prosecution for all serious crimes, that is 95% of the Penal Code, we still cannot give this guarantee what the relatives of victims and victims expect. Let us have the debate as it should be and conduct it professionally. What do we want to achieve? Solve the issue when there is a serious murder, there is no possibility that the perpetrator, recognizing the facts and circumstances, is constantly talking about recognition of guilt, and when there is recognition of guilt, this can be considered a mitigating circumstance, and it can still come to unfair punishment. Is that right, honourable MPs from BSP for Bulgaria? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No, that's not it"]] No! Answer me in a line, if you like. No! What is our goal today? To meet public expectations, and these public expectations are precisely to have such a fair punishment. Yesterday in the debate at the Legal Committee, there was talk about the fact that there was no full investigation in the abridged judicial investigation. This is a trial phase of the criminal trial. If we need to recall what was going on in the years back before this institute existed, we need to remind ourselves that the cases took place five, six, ten, fifteen years ago, experts were lost, witnesses forgot their testimony in pre-trial proceedings. And what was the result? What was the result?! Have we achieved fair punishment?! The answer is simple. No, we didn't. After we received the European Commission's instructions, the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg for slow justice after several hundred thousand criminal cases were suspended in 2006 and resulted in results. And do not be fooled by this high tribune that in any case there is a reduction of the imposed penalties by a third. The text of the Penal Code is currently clear. What the public wants from us is not to be able to impose a severe punishment for life without a replacement to replace it with a life imprisonment and a life imprisonment of 20 to 30 years. That's the hypothesis of deliberately causing death. The position yesterday and the D.A.'s office was clear enough. So when we talk about these things, let's talk about what they are, not speculate. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. A line from Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I'll start from where you came from, not to speculate, but to speak specifically. You are well aware that the case we are discussing is directly related to the penalty under the Criminal Code, as it is the only case in which an automatic reduction of the penalty is required, and not by accident in the text that we have written, we have fixed that hypothesis of the judgment a shortened consequence which, in recognition of facts and circumstances, as you correctly say: leads to the application of the common part of the Criminal Code and in particular of art. 58a. It is about automation and it is not for a reason that automation is necessary to work this procedure. And for a reason, since 2006, we have argued that these crimes, which lead to murder and serious bodily harm, should not be subject to this procedure. Clear, clear, simple solution, that is, adopted decision. What do you say to people: Can't we do both? Can't we have a quick and fair trial? And couldn't it be quick knowledge, a quality organization of court work, new court cards, a judicial reform that guarantees both a quick trial and a fair enough punishment?! I've heard that in some countries they've achieved it. Why can't we? What's with the fatalism? Furthermore, I remind you that in this National Assembly, your majority adopted a series of changes to speed up the penalty process and that the situation is not at all what it was before. Some changes are controversial, some not. Some of us have argued, in a year or two we'll see who was right, but about the criminal trial, about its development, especially in a judicial phase, it's been done a lot over the years. And now the question is very clear and specific and it is: consider it or not, say it once and for all, because for two or three weeks we have been listening to how both the judicial investigation is very good, but it can be for a little while, but it can not be so, but... Say it plainly, plainly and clearly! [[The President gives a signal that time has run out.]] You'll have time, we only have two items on the agenda. Clear, just...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u41	Still, stick to the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u42	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm asking the question and I'm done. Do you agree to adjourn, cancel the prosecution...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u43	Finish your thought, Mr. Zarkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u44	...for severe bodily damage or not? If not, why? Say it once and for all, so we can find out! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u45	Thank you. Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u46	Mr. Tzipov, I have a request to you, because here to colleagues who are passionately speaking from the stands, it is very difficult for them to explain what criminal law is and that politics and criminal law have nothing to do with it, to say that what they read to us from the stands are results, and in the criminal law determining is the meaning and guilt and you cannot talk about the results of a brick falling from the third floor of your apartment, if there is no intent and guilt. Please, just a little lecture on criminal law enforcement!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Mrs. Alexandrova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u48	Dear Mr. Tzipov, my line to you is to explain to colleagues on the left when we say the statistics of 2007. With 275 000 suspended files and released criminals on the loose, to walk among the people whose children were killed, would you tell the colleagues on the left, currently Bulgaria is in which place in Europe is faster in the criminal process.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Tzipov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me start with you, Mr. Manev. I cannot allow myself to answer your question in such a way, because my humble legal knowledge cannot lead me to lecture people with extremely serious, long practical and legal experience. This is about you. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, there is always something to be desired to achieve speed in the process, only today's debate is about fair punishment. But this month, during which we are having the debate, dear Mr. Zarkov, we have obviously come this far not to debate whether fair punishment can be achieved, but to debate whether there can be any punishment at all. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, this text, which we are looking at now, has not been submitted a month ago, is not only related to the recent tragic cases of killings, but it is a struggle that we are fighting from the "United Patriarchs" from the previous National Assembly. As early as 2015, the first bill was introduced, with this editing. There were cases of serious crimes committed following the use of alcohol and tranquilizers. Then this text was rejected. Now, unfortunately, yesterday in the Legal Commission, because of the absence of colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP), instead of considering the option that was submitted by us and by them and is identical, we are ultimately faced with the choice of whether to support in this case the dropping of the abridged judicial result in the deliberate death, or, otherwise, of the deliberate killings. With this dilemma for me, the solution is clear. The removal of deliberate murders from the scope of the abridged judicial investigation is a decisive step forward in achieving justice in criminal justice. From now on, what needs to be done with regard to severe bodily damage, and we are committed to doing so, is to re-submit a bill with which severe bodily damage will also be excluded from the scope of the abridged judicial investigation. For us, this fight is not over. We'll keep it going. We will continue to put our arguments in this direction, but we cannot help but support the huge step forward that is being taken by dropping the deliberate death from the scope of the abridged judicial investigation. On the one hand, because we have fought for so many years, we have not fought for a month, for more than four years for this. On the other hand, because we will continue to act in the same way in terms of dropping out of the scope of the abridged judicial consequence of severe bodily damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. First line, Ms. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u54	Dear Mr. Mitev, I would like to ask you a question: excuse me, from your spatial statement I could not understand how you would vote? Which bill will you support our submitted by BSP or GERB, as yesterday there was such a question about the speech of Deputy Prosecutor Shishkova? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u55	Thank you. Is there another line? Mr. Mitev, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Niva, first of all, no one has ours, no one has yours. We are currently voting on a joint bill. Secondly, what will be put to the vote now is the version that the Commission has adopted. There is no GERB bill in this case. There is a proposal that was tabled between first and second readings and which could have been rejected if your group were in the House yesterday in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u57	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to Paragraph only by importer which becomes § 1. Please vote. Vote 165 MPs: 92 against 62, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Tsipov and Iglika Ivanova-Supreme for the creation of § 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 4. (4) The specialized criminal court shall also have cases of jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u59	Statements? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u60	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! This text creates the conviction and determines the conviction of future cases that the European Prosecutor's Office will conduct when it starts functioning. I think we're getting ahead of ourselves on this. The reasons for this are that the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union under criminal order and all the rules that will determine the competence and work of the European Prosecutor's Office are not yet transposed into the Bulgarian legislation. And the fact that we use this law to say that we apply them is not enough. Evidence of this is that, and at the moment, as far as I know and read in the press, the Ministry of Justice is working on a working group that should stick the compositions of the Penal Code to write new ones, if necessary, to fix the old ones so that they can be transposed into a materially legal aspect of this prosecution. Agree that it is normal, first, to see which cases will be watched, and then to determine where they will be viewed. So far, the jurisdiction of the Specialized Criminal Court has been determined by two types of the one being substantively correct, so it began as a court specializing in certain compositions of the Criminal Code. The other is in terms of the quality of the defendants. It is not clear here exactly what we continue to do with this Criminal Court and with specialized criminal justice. How many cases are there going to be? How many are there going to be? Is there any collateral to look at there? Why is it rushing with this text instead of being part of the common draft of the Penal Code on transposition of the Directive, for me remains a mystery. I also asked the Legal Committee, and I couldn't find an answer. I thought that this issue, being not as urgent as the previous one we discussed, would be the subject of a deeper and more comprehensive discussion in both the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers and in the expert community before coming to us to decide at the end. What's the rush, though? Why does he find his place here? This is an answer I expect from the importers Mrs. Alexandrova, Krasimir Tzipov and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva? I hope we get a lot of that to know what we're doing, otherwise we kind of put the wagon in front of the horse again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u62	Dear governors, I have more questions for you! You are suing the Specialized Court of the cases of the European Prosecutor's Office and I ask you: when will we have rules, when will we vote the order in which those delegated Bulgarian prosecutors will be elected who will be responsible for Bulgaria under the European Prosecutor's Office and European penal policy? You are in a hurry to determine the defendant, but you are in no hurry to clarify when and how we will choose these people. And don't even think, quietly and without rules, somewhere in the Council of Ministers to decide and choose them without criteria defined in the National Assembly, without debate and without nominations. I'm just warning you. The European Prosecutor's Office is an extremely important Institute for Justice in Europe, but also in Bulgaria, of course. We expect, in addition to the conviction, very soon you will submit the way to elect the European prosecutors for Bulgaria. We are prepared to do so, and if you do not do so soon, we will amend the Law on the Judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u63	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! So far, the question has been raised as to why we are rushing, why so early is it necessary, is it necessary? Nowhere here in the imported documents has it been shown who we are first, are we second, were there other countries from all 27 countries in the European Union, have they already done it? I remember in the early 1980s, because the Soviet comrades had then decided and there were indications that the investigation would be transferred to the Ministry of Interior in Bulgaria to be the first one before it even happened there. Then in the Soviet Union, that didn't happen, didn't happen. The intention was terminated for reasonable reasons, however, in Bulgaria remained. What we're doing right now seems like such a rush. We need to be aware that this is an act which once again transmits part of our sovereignty, as long as it remains, because very little sovereignty of Bulgaria, of the Republic of Bulgaria, has remained. In this direction another blow, another nail in the coffin of Bulgarian sovereignty. We are doing this with a mighty gesture, just because there, in the European Union, it is decided and let us be the first. Looks like some of us are trying to get a little tight here. There is no other reason, and I answer that question why we are in such a hurry before other actions and acts are carried out. This is the easiest, but some want us to be the first and report cheerfully to the Brussels masters in Bulgaria we did it, and even to say and say in other countries:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall close the debate and put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 2 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 139 MPs: 92 against 46, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u66	Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Tsipov and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish an additional provision with § 3: "Additional provision' § 3. Article 201, para. 2 of the Penal Code and Art. 83a, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u67	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a new division with the name of the additional provision and the text of § 3 in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: 95, none, abstention 35. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u68	A proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Tsipov and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva is created "Concluding provisions." The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov, Krasimir Tzipov and Yavor Notev under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a name "Concluding provisions' ............................................ In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The punishment referred to in paragraph 2 shall be as follows: 1 is also required when the act was committed by a foreign official. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 260c, para. 1 after the word "trade" is added "or performs another type of activity or action." § 5. In the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments in Art. 83a, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words. 172 (a) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u69	Are there any speeches? Speaking, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It has repeatedly been said that in this legislation and in Parliament as a whole the text of Article is abused. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of This is that text that allows MPs and at second reading, after the deadlines for making proposals have expired, to make accidental ones. In this way, of course, there is no possibility of any deep reflection on the project or for who knows what motivation. It is usually done with motives that it should happen quickly for one reason or another. This wicked practice is particularly dangerous when it applies to the Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, with this book, which we gently change, people go to jail, lose their freedom, others who deserve, go unpunished. It's completely irresponsible. If we look carefully at the three points that are offered to us on our knees, the first is related to that directive that we talked about and some of the requirements that we transpose have already said about this. The second is related to art. 251 of the Penal Code, which concerns those who do not fulfil obligations to declare money, precious metals and other valuable goods. I draw attention to this text not only because it is practically important, but also because two years ago, namely on 22 November 2017, it was discussed in the Legal Commission, only then it was introduced as a normal proposal and could not get a debate. Back then, importers, again pressed by international jurisdiction, offered a completely different approach. It is currently proposed to abolish the confiscation penalty of those funds which have not been duly declared or have been concealed in any way. Then there was something more balanced, where some punishments were reduced, others were increasing. However, after a debate in the Commission, we decided that this was not the right approach and that further correspondence with the relevant institutions was needed. I now understand that there is a criminal procedure again on this text and we are offered to react again as pinched bunnies to respond to it, risking, on the one hand, making the text ineffective and, on the other, not even meeting the requirements that the European institutions have asked of us. There's no reason for such a hurry. One such text, which is supported by international jurisdiction, recommendations, a preliminary debate from two years ago in the Legal Committee, opinions can be submitted normally, to be considered normally, to be adopted effectively in order to be effective. I can't understand it, once again, and I'm sorry about how we can treat one of the most important laws in the country, the one who decides who is free and who isn't, in this way?! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. I close the debates and put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Concluding provisions' by paragraphs 4 and 5 and a text according to the Commission report. Vote 131 MPs: 95 against 36 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TABACCO LAW, TOUCHUNEWS AND RELATED ARTICLES. A report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food, you have the floor, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote to be granted to the meeting of the National Assembly on persons: Lachezar Borisov. Deputy Minister of Economy; Slavi Kralev. Director of the Directorate of Agriculture and Organic Production. at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Simonetta Boneva. Head of the Department of Trade Mechanisms......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u73	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the admitted persons to the Chamber. Please continue, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u74	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act, No 902-01-43, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 19 August 2019, adopted on the first vote on 26 September 2019. The draft for the second vote. The Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products is amended and supplemented by the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and the related articles. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u75	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u76	A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) The order to deal with tobacco classification disputes shall be governed by a regulation issued by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u77	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1. 88 MPs voted: 68, none, 20 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u78	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u79	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 1 to become § 2. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u80	Under § 2, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 new The persons referred to in paragraph 4 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 and research organisations and universities carrying out research, scientific application and innovative activities in the field of tobacco and/or tobacco products may possess technical equipment intended for cutting tobacco. (5) Within 14 days of acquisition or disposal of a technical facility intended for cutting tobacco, persons and organisations under para. 4 submit a notification to the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u81	Are there any statements on the text? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of Maria Belova and a group of MPs, with the version of the text by the Commission of § 2, which becomes § 3. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u82	Proposal by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs to create new § 4 and 5: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1 the word "proposal' is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u83	Are there any speeches? I won't. Announce a vote on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 4 and 5. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u84	Under § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26a The following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/2186', provide, through the European Union General Electronic Portal (EU-CEG): 1. information on ingredients and emissions according to art. 35b, para. 1; 2. the available studies on toxicity, the risk of addiction and the attractiveness of the new tobacco product, in particular with regard to its ingredients and emissions; 3. available studies, summary assessments of the new tobacco product and market studies on the preferences of different consumer groups, including young people and smokers; 4. other available and relevant information, including a risk analysis and the benefit of the new tobacco product, the expected effects when starting and stopping the use of tobacco products, as well as predictions related to consumer perception. 3. In para. 3: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The notice under para. 1 shall be presented in electronic form 6 months before the placing on the market of the device concerned and shall contain: (b) To be created t. 3: "3." date of submission of the information under para. 2. 4. In para. 4 t. Three, four, five and six are canceled. 5. In para. 8 the words "importers or persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 6. Alinei 9 and 10 are amended as follows: The manufacturer and importers of new tobacco products shall provide, under the conditions and in accordance with Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/2186, by means of the European Union General Electronic Portal (EU-CEG) any new or updated information on research, research and other information which has become known to them after the notification under para. 1. (10) Manufacturers, importers or persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, new tobacco products shall inform the Ministry of Economy in electronic form of the information under para. 9 and indicate the date of its delivery through the European Union General Electronic Portal (EU-CEG).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u85	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3 by importer which shall become § 6. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u86	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The public register shall record: 1. the manufacturer of the device; 2. the importer or the person entering the device on the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union; 3. the trademark of the product; 4. the variety of the product; 5. the information under art. 26a, para. 2, p. 1, except for information which constitutes commercial secrecy. 2. The creation of para. 3: The administrative authorities, the judicial authorities, the public authorities and the bodies providing public services shall not require citizens and organisations to provide evidence of information entered in the public register under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u87	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 4 by importer which shall become § 7. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u88	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 after the word "packages', the words "for labelling and packing' shall be replaced by the words "for labelling and packing'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Point 17 (d) is repealed. 3. A t is created. 20: It's 20. tobacco smoking products containing additives to facilitate the inhalation or absorption of nicotine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u89	Statements? I won't. It shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 5 by importer which shall become § 8. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u90	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u91	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 9. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u92	Under § 7, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 31c: Art. 31c. It shall be prohibited to place on the market: 1. tobacco products for which the data and information under art. 35b, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 35d, para. 1; 2. new tobacco products which have not been notified under art. 26a, para. 1 and the annexes referred to in Article 1. 26a, para. 4; 3. electronic cigarettes and refill containers for which no notification under art. 43a, para. 1 and the data and information referred to in Article 1 are not provided. 43b; 4. smoking products other than tobacco products for which the information under art. 43k, para. 1, t. 1 and the declaration referred to in Article 1. 43k, para. 1, t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u93	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 7 by importer which shall become § 10. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u94	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 2. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 3. In para. 3 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by the "importers" or "importers." 4. Alinei 4 and 5 are amended as follows: The manufacturers and importers of new and/or modified cigarettes, cigars, cigars, hand-crinkling tobacco, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, snorting tobacco, oral tobacco and water pipe tobacco shall provide the data and information under para. 1 and 2 for the products concerned before they are placed on the market. (5) The data and information under para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5. Alinea 6 is canceled. 6. In para. 7. (a) points 1 and 3 are repealed; (b) c. 7 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 7. In para. 8 the words................................................................................................. 7, p. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): One and two. 8. The creation of para. 10: Council Decision (EU) No 231/2014 of 11 December 2014 on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Union, of the Agreement between the European Union, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis (OJ L 77, 25.3.2014, p. 1).), including the provision of the necessary laboratory equipment, is financed by the budget of the Agricultural Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u95	Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again, with the change in the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, functions are assigned to the Tobacco Institute, which are related to the implementation of the directive. In this case, a directive of 2014. These functions, which should be carried out by the Institute, are far from what is financially provided by the Agricultural Academy. The Agricultural Academy is a scientific organization and its budget is formed on the basis of scientific projects that are implemented in the structure of the Academy. While these functions, which are assigned to this is the only institute where certain implementation activities of the Directive are legally awarded, are not included in the budget of the Agricultural Academy. Our proposal was to finance this activity from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. A compromise option was adopted, which stated that the Agricultural Academy is obliged to carry out the financing of activities related to laboratory equipment and also to the activities to be carried out under the Directive. To tell you the truth, I am not very convinced that this will happen, even more so if there is no control by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as to how the budget will be allocated and such funds will be provided. Therefore, I would very much like, by accepting this compromise option, the Agricultural Academy to finance these activities, to have further control by the Ministry, because otherwise it will be so that the Academy will not allocate targeted funds for the implementation of activities that are extremely important and which are respectively not only in Bulgaria, but also in the European Commission on the implementation of the Directive. I suppose we will not dispute this proposal, but we would like, when the budget is adopted, this issue to be put and, accordingly, to find its solution and financial statement in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively at the Agricultural Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 8 by importer which shall become § 11. Vote 82 MPs: 65, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u98	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35c the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 2. In para. 2 sentence third, the words "importers' and the persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by the "importers' or "importers'. 3. In para. 3 sentence first, the words "importers' and the persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by the "importers' or "importers'. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The report under para. 4 shall be submitted by the manufacturers or importers of cigarettes and hand-crinkled tobacco. 3 of the European Commission and of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products no later than 18 months after the inclusion of the additive under para. 1 in the priority list referred to in Article 2. 35b, para. 2, p. 2. The report shall be submitted in accordance with the terms and conditions of Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/2186 by the European Union Common Electronic Portal (EU-CEG). 5. In para. 6 The words shall be verified in the reports under para. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 to be subjected to peer review by an independent research authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u99	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9 by importer which shall become § 12. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u100	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35d the words "importer' or person entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union' shall be replaced by "exporter's'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u101	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 10 by importer which shall become § 13. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u102	Under § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35e the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The data and information referred to in paragraph 2 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be submitted in accordance with the
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u103	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11 by importer, which shall become § 14. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u104	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35e is created The images of consumer packaging and any external packaging of tobacco to consumers must comply with the requirements of this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u105	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 12 by importer, which shall become § 15. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u106	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u107	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 13 by importer. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u108	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35p words participating in the trade in tobacco products from the manufacturer to the last economic operator prior to the first retail outlet (economic operators in the supply chain)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u109	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14 by importer which shall become § 16. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u110	A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 17 and 18: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 with the words "in the chain of supply of tobacco products before the first retail outlet' are deleted. § 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words in the chain of supply of tobacco products before the first retail outlet shall be deleted. 2. In para. 9 words in the chain of supply of tobacco products before the first retail outlet shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u111	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 17 and 18 with a text, according to the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u112	Under §15 there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "and persons' shall be replaced by "or persons'. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to supplement this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Depending on the type of device, they shall provide via the European Union General Electronic Portal (EU-CEG): 1. a list of the ingredients contained in the product and the emissions resulting from its use, for each brand and for each type, including their quantities; 2. the toxicological data available on the ingredients and emissions of the device, including heating, specifying in particular their effects on consumer health by inhalation and their possible addiction effects; 3. information on the doses of nicotine and its absorption when consumed under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions; 4. a description of the components of the device; where applicable, a description of the mechanism for opening and loading the device; 5. a description of the production process, including whether it includes serial production, and a declaration that the production process ensures conformity of the product with the requirements of this Chapter; 6. a declaration that the manufacturer and the importer are fully responsible for the quality and safety of the device when marketed and used under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions. 3. In para. 3: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The notice under para. 1 shall be presented in electronic form 6 months before the placing on the market of the device concerned and shall contain: (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." date of submission of the information under para. 2. (c) points 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 are repealed. 4. In para. 6 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers," the words "al." 1..4................................................................................................ 1.. 3............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 5. Alinei 8 and 9 are amended as follows: The Ministry of Economy shall maintain a public register of electronic cigarettes and refill containers. The public register shall record: 1. the manufacturer of the device; 2. the importer or the person entering the device on the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union; 3. the trademark of the product; 4. the variety of the product; 5. the information under para. 2, except for information which is commercial secrecy. (9) Upon request by the European Commission or a Member State of the European Union, the Ministry of Economy shall provide the information under para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 436, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 6. The creation of para. 10: The administrative authorities, the judicial authorities, the public authorities and the bodies providing public services shall not require citizens and organisations to provide evidence of information entered in the public register under para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15 by importer, which shall become § 19. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u114	Under § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "importers." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: For the purposes of analysing whether the use of electronic cigarettes and refill containers leads to nicotine addiction and use of tobacco products among young people and non-smoking persons, the Ministry of Economy may provide information under para. 1 of the Ministry of Health and of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products and to request a reasoned opinion from them. 3. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 16, which shall become § 20. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u116	Under Paragraph 17, there is a proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Article 43c is amended as follows: Art. 43c. Economic operators shall establish and maintain a system to collect information on any adverse effects on human health from the use of electronic cigarettes and/or refill containers they offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u117	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17 by importer which shall become § 21. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u118	A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43d, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 43a, para. 3, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u119	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 22 with a text according to the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u120	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43k the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by the Union is replaced by (b) To be created t. 3: "3." the date of submission of the information referred to in paragraph 1. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Alinei 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The manufacturer, importers or persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union other than tobacco products shall inform the Ministry of Economy of any change in the composition of an article for which information under para. 1, t. 1 indicating the date of its delivery through the European Union Common Electronic Portal (EU-CEG). (3) The information under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 shall be submitted before the placing on the market of a new or modified smoking product other than tobacco products, subject to the conditions laid down in Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/2186 by the European Union Common Electronic Portal (EU-CEG). (4) The Ministry of Economy shall maintain a public register of smoking products other than tobacco products. The public register shall record: 1. the manufacturer of the device; 2. the importer or the person entering the device on the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union; 3. the trademark of the product; 4. the variety of the product; 5. the information under para. 1, t. 1 except for the information which constitutes a business secret. 3. The creation of para. 6: The administrative authorities, the judicial authorities, public functions persons and bodies providing public services shall not require citizens and organisations to provide evidence of information recorded in the public register under para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u121	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 18, which shall become § 23. 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u122	According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words from 50 to 500 BGN and tobacco is replaced by 200 to 2000 BGN and finally added not less than 30 percent of the value of tobacco, and tobacco is taken for the benefit of the state. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: In the event of a repeated infringement, the penalty corresponding to the penalty shall be equal to three times the fine, respectively, of the penalty referred to in para. 1. (3) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall publish on its website information on the fines and property penalties imposed under para. 1 and 2 in criminal decrees entered into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u123	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 19 by importer which shall become § 24. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u124	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and finally added to it not less than 30 percent of the value of tobacco, and tobacco is taken for the benefit of the State. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: In the event of a repeated infringement, the penalty corresponding to the penalty shall be equal to three times the fine, respectively, of the penalty referred to in para. 1. (3) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall publish on its website information on the fines and property penalties imposed under para. 1 and 2 in criminal decrees entered into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u125	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20, which shall become § 25. Vote 87 MPs: for 87 against and abstentions there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u126	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss A new article shall be created. 45: Art. 45. In cases referred to in art. 44, 44a and 44b the tobacco seized in favour of the State shall be disposed of under conditions and in order laid down by the rules of application of the law. The cost of the destruction is at the expense of the intruder.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u127	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 21 which shall become § 26. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u128	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1 words................................................................................. Art. 10, Art. 18, Art. 31, 31a Art. 10 - 20, Art. 31, 31a, 31c
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u129	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 22 by importer, which shall become § 27. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u130	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51b, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 43a, para 1, 2 and 6 43a, para. 1... 3 and para. 6 and the words................................................................................................ 43k, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 43k, para. 1.?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u131	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 23 by importer, which shall become § 28. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u132	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words.............................................................................. 44a and 44b 44, 44a and 44b. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 26a, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 26a, para. 1? 3, the words? r. 43a, para. 1, 2 and 6 and shall be replaced by the following: 43a, para. 1... 3 and para. 6 and the 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words. Art. 10, Art. 18, Art. 31, 31a Art. 10 - 20, Art. 31, 31a, 31c
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u133	Statements? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 24 by importer which shall become § 29. They voted 98 MPs: 98 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u134	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 26a, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 26a, para. The words.......................................................................................... Art. 10, Art. 18, Art. 31, 31a Art. 10 - 20, Art. 31, 31a, 31c. 43a, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 43a, para. 1..3 and para. 6 and the words................................................................................................ 43c "43i" is replaced by "chl." 43c "43k," para. 1..3............................................................................... 2. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 30, para. 2, p. 17 and 18s shall be replaced by the following: 30, para. 2, p. 18 and 20. 3. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 26a, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 26a, para. 1? 3? and the words??. 43e.. 43i.............................................................................................. 43c "43i ". 4. In para. 5 words................................................................................. 26a, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 26a, para. 1.. 3................................................................................ 43a, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 43a, para. 1... 3 and para. 6 and the words................................................................................................ Art. 43c, 43d and Art. 43 (i) and (ii) are replaced by (iii) and (iv) are replaced by (v) and (v) are replaced by (v) and (v) and (v) are replaced by 5. In para. 8 words. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u135	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 25 by importer, which shall become § 30. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u136	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become §31.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u137	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 31. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u138	According to § 26a there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 11. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs for the establishment of § 31. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In § 35 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products (SG No. 28 of 2016) the words "for tobacco products of characteristic taste-flavoured qualities' shall be deleted and the words "of tobacco products of characteristic taste-flavoured qualities' shall be replaced by the words of the tobacco products of art. 30, para. 2, p. 18°C - 10°C - 10°C - 10°C - 10°C - 10°C - 10°C - 10°C
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u139	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 32 with a text according to the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u140	'Concluding provision'. There is a proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u141	Statements? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, what do we want to do with this proposal? We want to have a law, but it does not apply to all those who sell illegally vague fuels, sell to unregistered and without measuring facilities, use villages and cities over 20-year-old tanks, which should have gone for scrap long ago. We are discussing how to have a law that exists both in front of Europe and potential investors, while not affecting any of the unregistered traders and any other domestic entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u143	Mr. Dimitrov, if you'll excuse me, we're discussing the creation and the name of a division.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u144	I'll wait. No problem, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u145	Yeah. Thank you for understanding. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions." They voted 93 MPs: for 92, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u146	There is a proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs to create paragraphs 33 and 34. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 33 and 34: ................................................ Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the persons referred to in art. 21, para. 4 which own technical equipment for cutting tobacco shall notify the Ministry of Economy. § 34. (1) Until the entry into force of § 2 of this Law, the provisional authorisations under art. 16a, para. 6 shall remain in force until 31 March 2024. By 1 June 2020, the Chairs of the relevant Tobacco Committees at the (2) The issue of the new authorisations under para. 1 is a service and no public charges are paid for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u147	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs 33 and 34, with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u148	There is a proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs to create a new § 27. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. In the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products (prom., SG No. 62 from 2018; amend. and dop. No. 13 and 17 from 2019) in § 7, para. 1 of the transitional and final provisions, the word "three months' is replaced by "six months' and "six months'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u149	Statements? Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues of GERB, perhaps I should remind you that in the third term we have only come to the courage to start working on this law, which we are now putting off again. Personally, I had all the talks of the prime minister with gassians, oil workers, farmers. Whatever they want, it promised them and fulfilled the Prime Minister. I say this not only because they publicly thanked him to the journalists in the Council of Ministers, but also because I personally contributed to change all the commitments he made. Because of the Prime Minister, we have authorised posthumously illegal objects to be licensed and to work; in the Law on Structure of the Area............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There was no norm we didn't break. But we agreed, because the prime minister decided that again under pressure or do it, or strike, to retreat: not to have level-based systems, not to have computers, to keep records of notebooks, not to have contact with the NRA and customs, to carry their fuel out of control wherever they wanted. And we, colleagues, voted it out. Thank you for supporting him. New Year's Eve has come. New ultimatums: either exclude us from the same law that we wrote, approved and thanked, or strike! October's here. It's been a year and a half since we passed this law, but it can't work because it doesn't have a register yet. Out of 15,000 potential registration sites under this law, 260 registered to date. The answer is: No, we need three more months. No, it's not like that. They'll never register. Two hundred thousand leva was for registration of a gas station. They asked for $20,000, we accepted it, we accepted it, we reduced the capital. We made the free registration of free, zero leva, of the government gas stations, of transport, of the internal objects. By the way, the registration of farmers is free, no registration. There's no registration! Those outside now who wanted to strike, kept no education, no guarantees, no free. All he wanted was a driver's license, an ADR and a metrology certificate. That's how we accepted it. They didn't register! The exercise today is that all unregistered so far remain unregistered and uncontrolled in the future. This will follow. Any newly elected government can reform the first six months, maximum one year of its rule, then hold the mandate. If you're asking how you sit on the balcony and throw money at those who shout the loudest! Whether it will hold the pressure GERB, I can't guess. I want a full and successful mandate, and I'm helping as much as I can get this thing to happen. There's a budget coming up. How can we tolerate new and new rules for investment in control for only half of the sector "Forest" and legitimize and tolerate the iniquities of the other half? We want collections, we want to be liked for children's mothers, salaries, sisters, pensions, and at the same time we give indulgences: from this one don't collect, the third one don't register it, the fourth one whatever it does, don't touch it. That's what we do. Politics is made with money. You got money, you got collection, you got policy. So far, we have a lot to throw off the balcony, but there is a recession coming, and it's costing, and it's still income. Are we going to do a reduction and redistribution of misery then, because it's too late next year? We are trying to make sure that voters, who one day want special rights, and the next day, will increase the subsidies in their favor. Reforms before elections are not made for you to explain it, so we postponed it twice. We've passed the law. Six months later, the elections were set. Then, come on, six months from now, they're gonna ask the locals. Now three more, and I don't know how much longer for the parliamentary elections to come. Each new government is a hostage to the financial policy before it. Whoever comes or stays in power will not be able to change the rules for at least one year. The only source of revenue for the budget remained the fuels. If you don't have the money, you've failed. Regardless of what we want, which grandmother, nurse, mother, or teacher we have promised, or whether we regret that we deliberately closed our eyes to one or another irregularity, or whether we rejoice in someone's failure. Colleagues, vote for a vote! I call on you to vote on the issue and postpone once again the regulation to enter into force. Help the Prime Minister because, using the elections, they racketeering him even for what he did and retreated to a particular group, industry, people, terms. There's no good left unpunished. If he stepped down and agreed to blackmail once, then blackmail to the end. That's how he's doing with him right now, and that's why I'm asking you to help him. If he backs down and agrees once, he'll take it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finished, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is currently paying the price of the discount in the desire for a coalition, the desire to have a full mandate. By going down this path, we will get to where other people have gone before us for the younger: the 2001 elections reference, Ivan Kostov. I don't know who's going where, but I think we're going the wrong way. Vote for a vote! Help the Prime Minister and perhaps get baptized not to get to this result, which before us some who think of as very big politicians have achieved. This law should have come into force and been forgotten long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, in principle I take a remark not to make a major objection or to reject, to express a complete disagreement with the statement of a colleague of mine, but to the contrary. With regard to his call to support this bill, I do not object to that and should do so. I have an objection to Factology itself and to the rest of the speech that drew an astrofic, creepy picture of almost a public disintegration because we have to postpone by three months the operation of a regulation that should have entered before.. somewhere on 26 August, I think it should have entered, July, yes. What's this about? In principle, we already have a bill that has been working for more than six months. This bill is referred to as: a draft administrative regulation for oil and oil related activities. There is already one text that is agreed with all participants in the process of supply, distribution, trade of fuels, the working group at the Ministry of Economy works and I have the assurance by Minister Karaniklov that all views and opinions have been taken into account. In other words, there is a consensus on this bill. It should be adopted today at the Council of Ministers, on the grounds that we are going on leave for two weeks because of the elections, there will be no possibility to be adopted and to enter into force before the entry of the Ordinance on the adopted month of January, a bill that is lobbyist and draconian everywhere. That's the reason we're asking for a three-month delay today and nothing more. So I also call on you to support the bill. It's about a technical delay that can't be extended any longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u154	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, from this tribune you said scary things about the Prime Minister that he motivated you to accept situations in the Law that are against the law. [[Noise and lines.]] That's what he said, you can check it in the transcript, that the prime minister is being blackmailed and is being blackmailed, which is why once he is blackmailed, he will continue to tolerate it. Mr. Dimitrov, I ask you: is this the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't draw any tragic or bad pictures. There was a group of people who went to the Prime Minister, set their terms, and everything they put was accepted. They solemnly read in the Council of Ministers before journalists and in the cabinet of the Prime Minister their gratitude to all farmers, builders, gas, oil and so on. It's a fact. It's on TV, it's on TV, and the press is covering it. We've taken it all in here, I've brought it in myself. With regard to the Law. He came in last year. Once again, let's give six months right before the elections so that they can prepare for the election, let's extend it for another six months. They will certainly prepare, they are not. Now we're practically asking for a three-month increase, because during that time there was some kind of law. Shall I tell you what would happen from this moment on? So far, all legal traders in Bulgaria have been registered. They are registered and every day we impose new and new appliances, new and new systems, new video surveillance, level-based systems, computer and so on because they were stupid to register. These are all foreign investors and all the big chains. All unregistered to date the aim is to remain unregistered, although for a large part it is free for farmers is free, for transport is free, for the office sites is free. They wanted 200,000, the gas stations said it was too much for them to be 20, we accepted it! They wanted no education, we accepted it! They wanted there to be no price for drivers, we accepted everything, and last year everyone was grateful. Something is happening right now and everyone who hasn't checked in has suddenly decided that they shouldn't register. That's why I'm saying there are two standards. To those who have registered, we will continue to impose on them. Here today is the Law on Oil and Oil Stocks, and we are imposing on this business, which has had the indiscretion to register, new and new obligations, because Europe wants it. Who? Well, the registered ones. At the same time, those who have not registered do not want to register. What are the motives, I don't want to guess, but we have two standards - half the sector is in the light, the other one doesn't want to register, even though it's free. There could certainly be more concessions, but everything they asked for, the honourable Prime Minister accepted it, I brought it in myself. Now it's been a year and a half and suddenly they've forgotten everything they wanted, and they want a new one. That's what I'm saying. There are no apocalyptic paintings, the state is not in disintegration, but the fact is that some people go to his office, they start to want and threaten before the elections in any way. Last time it was over, now it's over, we're waiting for the next election. This is not supposed to happen in this industry. I don't have a conflict of interest. I don't have a gas station or a gas station, so I don't care if this law goes in or not, but the revenue part is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 35 with a text, according to the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u158	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 2 which shall enter into force from 1 April 2020. 2 para. 11, p. 8 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020. 3. paragraph 35, which shall enter into force from 25 October 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-09.u159	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 27, which shall become § 36. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. That's what we're done with today. Dear colleagues, I will read you a message. A charity exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. Children paint for children. The initiative is part of the charity campaign of the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The initiative is part of the charity campaign of the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. All MPs are invited to the event. The next regular plenary session shall be on 10 October 2019 at 9.00 p.m. with an agenda under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
