ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Let's continue with: SECOND READING OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2020 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please come in for a statement under art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr Minister! There are several points on which we will make our proposals to raise funds in the sector "Middle education" in budget 2020. We hope to be understood and supported because our responsibility to education is common. The fact is the funding in the secondary education system, but it is only in the part about the widely advertised percentage increase in teachers' salaries. The fact is that in many schools this increase cannot reach the notorious 20%, but this fact remains neglected in the entire information flow with at least two or three times a year warming up news for an increase in teacher's salaries. This loud proclamation is causing damage to the entire teaching community and, if the aim is to make the profession attractive to young people, this does not happen because the rates increase cannot compensate for the huge amount of paperwork and administration with which the teachers are charged in the educational process, and the results will become more frightening and terrifying for the level of literacy of the Bulgarian students. This is not necessary to tell us PISA research, we see ourselves the level of preparation for the new philosophy, the new policy for the system the money follow the student with this formula and thus. The first accent is the lack of care for prominent children. Fact is the funding of programs for undergraduate students, as well as the financing of the mechanisms for returning dropouts to school through teams in which only teachers travel again. He's putting aside the care of successful and talented children and students. The state remains deaf to the financial provision of students with national and international awards. On the back of each family remains the funding of their children to appear in competitions, Olympiads or competitions in the country and abroad. This very often leads to disappointments and denial of participation, and proof of the talent of the Bulgarian students. The lack of enough money deprives our country of prestigious awards, awards and awards. A second accent again has to comment on the damage that the Preschool and School Education Act is doing. In the pursuit of integration and removal from the institutions of children with SPO (special educational needs) we come to ridiculous examples and situations where the education system cannot be useful. She's infirm. She can't help the child or the family. The truth is one thing and it is clear the system has not been prepared, it is not ready now and will continue not to be prepared to support the children with SOP if the funding does not increase. There are insufficient numbers of resource teachers, methodical elementary visual resources for resource offices. Teachers purchase by their own means from increased salaries of visual resources, materials and equipment for offices. Third focus is on the lack of work on a common platform for schools abroad. The so-called Sunday schools, i.e. the schools of Bulgarian communities abroad. Working with the education of more and more Bulgarians born abroad is difficult. About 400 are the open Sunday schools abroad and this is due to the efforts, enthusiasm and free labor of Bulgarians abroad, but still lacks the care, the strong care of the state for fast and sufficient funding of the opening schools every year outside our borders...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u3	The weather, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u4	...at the expense of the prisoners here in Bulgaria. It takes 20 million for all of these. Our request is 50 million for a free textbook from I to XII grade. This is possible because until the 7th grade are free anyway, all this is grounds for our proposal under art. 16: The policy in the area of comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school education and lifelong learning, the number 650 million to be replaced by 720.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u5	The weather, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u6	Bulgarian education needs your support and we rely on it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u8	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I'll put a positive start to today. Only for education in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the next year are nearly 5 billion. lv. An increase of 14.5% in education costs to 4 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is 3.8% of gross domestic product for 2020. This is an increase of 610 million compared to 2019. From the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science in the area of comprehensive accessible and quality pre-school and school education and lifelong learning will target 653,421 million. lv. Other over 90 million lv. are planned for policies in the field of equal access to quality higher education and development of scientific potential. More funds, the state plans for science.. 571 million. BGN, which is 0.5% of gross domestic product compared to 0.4% of gross domestic product this year. Investments in research and development increased from 1.3% to 1.5%, and in the next two years will exceed 1.6% of gross domestic product. For 2020 an agreement is signed between the remuneration of the pedagogical specialists to become between 17 and 18% increase, where the minimum teacher's salary will become BGN 1085 and the average of BGN 1540. Therefore, an additional 360 million are planned. BGN, or 30 million. lv. more than this year. The same growth is envisaged for 2021. The aim is to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession and more young specialists in it. At present young pedagogical specialists are 11% of the total number, and in the next 8 years the retirement of about 36% of Bulgarian teachers is due. In the implementation of policies to ensure comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school and school education, it is intended to continue activities under the scope mechanism in which 44 thousand children and students have been returned to the education system so far. The share of early leavers should decrease from 11.6% in 2019 to 11% next year, and in the next two years it should be up to 10.6%. Particular attention shall be paid to measures to expand vocational education. Some of them include a larger number of students in a dual form of training. 3 million are planned. lv. improving the conditions in the student dormitories of professional high schools. Two million more. lv. will be invested in educational resources for professional training. 3 million are planned. lv. for additional funding of vocational schools, training students in protected professions and those with a future shortage of specialists and 2 million for scholarships of such students. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for the transportation of students, over 3 million lv. keep scholarship funds in schools. A short time ago, a non-truth was said for scholarships of schools based on the achieved and preserved results of national external assessments. For the financing of the Programme for the Promotion of Innovative Methods of Teaching, Exchange of Practices and Changes in the Educational Environment 4 million are provided. lv. With 1.2 million. lv. A programme will be implemented to improve housing conditions; 20 million. lv. will be invested next year in improving the equipment of innovative rooms, STEM offices and innovative practices. In the field of higher education, reforms will continue to specialise in state universities and their profile optimization, restructuring the adoption with expected higher demand in the labour market, promoting the efforts of autonomous universities to continuously develop the quality of the training offered. For the first year there will be a National Programme in Higher Education of 9 million. BGN, with which funds will be stimulated effective policies in these areas. For the period 2020, additional funds in the amount of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u9	Mrs. Todorova, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u11	Thank you. And Mrs. Nencheva, we've given so much. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would also like to take account of the education budget envisaged for 2020. My speech will be concentrated in the higher education part. I wish I could start with a thesis that we from BSP for Bulgaria are constantly saying, but no one still hears us, that when we talk about reforms in the educational system, we should think together about all systems because they are interrelated and preschool, and school education, and higher education. Higher education is the last degree of education that actually affects school and pre-school education. The secondary education also influences, on the other hand, higher education with potential students, with candidates entering the higher education system. I've heard a lot of good things here, we've put on the pink glasses when we talk about the education system, but, esteemed rulers, higher education under the good words that we reform it, we systematically don't finance it. We have no incentive, no motivation through the policies we offer in higher education. For next year, only 47 million are available. lv. to raise the money for higher education. And, notice, I think it's emblematic that student dorms that are directly related to student living conditions are the most important and the budget contains some minimal means of maintenance and repair of these dorms. This is still the means, the base, which also does not matter when we talk about students and their motivation. We are constantly talking about the quality of education, but, on the other hand, the reform is so done that once again the accent is the student, but not the quality of students, but again the number of students comes to the fore. Here to remind you that there is a ratio that is seen in the number of enrolled in the state higher schools and the number of graduates. Then why do we want and how do we want it to have quality? We offer in art. 16 to be allocated more funds to state universities of 25 million. BGN, which, by the way, is not enough. Here we should also talk about the resources for science, which should also be increased. The state there has long been absent from the development of research and this is also shown in the budget for next year, from the attitude of the state. We also offer 15 million. lv. be set up for the establishment of a specialized fund to be dedicated to research institutes abroad. Obviously, in a great competition with European, with universities from other continents, we must somehow achieve a higher quality. This can be done through cooperation with other universities in the common European scientific area.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u13	The weather, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u14	I'm graduating, Madam President. So please don't underestimate higher education again. It's very important. Give more money for higher education, otherwise there is no way to motivate young teachers who are just starting to work in the higher education system and develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u16	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Allow me to return the debate on education to preschool and school education again, because I cannot ignore the untruths that have been expressed by this tribune. Firstly, on the subject of students with prominent gifts, I would like to emphasise that 1.3 million are provided for their support, for example in the field of music, to standards for funding support for the education and education of students. lv. They will be provided through a new, complementary standard for a student with an extended study of music. These funds will ensure the education and training activities of 123 192 children in kindergartens, 108 164 children in compulsory pre-school training, 665 173 in non-specialized schools, 14 887 in specialized schools of art, culture and sports schools, 2042 children in special schools and 25 500 students in evening, completed, independent and individual form. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for protected schools, 2 million lv. for differentiated remuneration of directors in the pre-school and school education system. With regard to the policies of the government for students with SPOs (special educational needs) " for children and students with SPOs are provided 76.4 million. BGN, of which 65,5 million lv. are for resource support for children and students integrated in mass schools and kindergartens. For activities for the development of interests, abilities and competences, children and students' participation in the fields of science, technology, arts and sport, carried out in the centers of personal development support and special service units in the budget, 17.2 million were allocated. lv. We are all proud to share the world achievements of our students in various international Olympiads, tournaments and competitions, but additional funds are needed in order for additional individual work to be possible with them. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. for students with prominent gifts, for interest activities. 24.7 million lv. It was also mentioned about the Bulgarian language training in Bulgarian communities abroad. The numbers for which the education budget must be supported are also those 12.5 million. BGN, which are designed for the preservation and development of the cultural identity of children and students in Bulgarian communities abroad by supporting the education in Bulgarian language and literature, history and geography in their part, which refers to the education in history and geography of Bulgaria, organized in Sunday schools abroad. That's why 12.5 million people are accounted for. lv. The increasing number of Bulgarian Sunday schools and children and students from Bulgarian communities abroad, wishing to study Bulgarian language and literature, history and geography of Bulgaria, sets growth for 2020 by 4.5 million. lv. for the funds provided by the Bulgarian State to finance Sunday schools abroad. Under the National Program, the number of schools, the number of students' scope, the activities are expanded, more students are financed at a high school stage. This started a trend for promotion of the Bulgarian higher education system and motivated the children to continue higher education in Bulgaria. This is also part of the government's policy to support the return of young families to Bulgaria. In the budget, the planned good policies for detention of children in school are the activities of interest "24.7 million." For career consultants, BGN 1.7 million. BGN, for equal access to personal development...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u17	The weather, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u18	Thanks, I'm done. The education budget, on the one hand, continues to launch policies that need to be supported and, on the other, launches new policies that need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Peeva. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Peeva, both you and Mrs. Petrova have tried to present the amounts and specific policies that we will be implementing in the designated direction next year in the field of education, but I would very much like to, provoked by the further speeches and the return of the ball, and I would like to ask you to share it here in front of the Chamber, and to remind you where we were in 2007 and how deaf or how hearing the state was back then to the education system. Where were we in the time they like to reheat the food? Does telling each time about the increase in wages not make our opposition angry enough to think it's reheating? No, it's not reheating! This is a fact that we are obliged to repeat and say because, honourable Members, there has never been such an attitude of the state to the education system in the last ten years. There has never been so much money to cover the salaries, remuneration of colleagues providing the educational process in all schools and educational institutions. Another question is that if there are exceptions and there are places where some irregularities occur, then I would not say that it is a matter of state treatment, but it is a question of management and staff preparation, but there is also money available in the new budget, so that, Commissioner Peeva, if you wish, you can share with your colleagues what was going on in the years back and what will happen from now on, because for us it is clear that we will continue to give enough funds for education, we will continue to prioritize the sector because the care for every Bulgarian child is a special focus in the GERB Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Mrs. Nencheva, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u22	Dear Madam President, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! Dear colleagues, it is wonderful that you have made a retrospect of everything that the Ministry is doing. Let us once again hear the large amounts, the large figures with which you parade, to increase the finances specifically in the field of secondary education. That's great! I didn't know where the gap was. In this case, we want an additional 70 million. lv. What didn't you understand? You might want to support him, but the accent you put on is important to hear from the stands. Okay, we've heard a lot of money in education. However, the results are lamentable, unfortunately, so I see no problem in supporting our 70 million-dollar offer. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u23	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Based on this particular system of education, I must tell you that there is really no government in recent years that has spent so much money on education. That's an indisputable fact. But I have to tell you, we also have some gaps. For example, yesterday we rejected 3 million. 200,000. lv. for sports accessories for children from kindergartens and schools. Do you know how much the budget would have cost that amount of 3 million? 200,000. lv.? 000068%! I hope after this mistake we made yesterday, the government finds a way to secure that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mrs. Peeva, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! With my opportunity to speak here, I will draw attention to the request for an increase in student textbook funds after the 7th grade. So far, it's free students' textbooks, but for those who study to the 7th grade. The support of education for students in the stages after the 7th grade is expressed not only in the possibility of using free textbooks. There are more scholarships, dormitories, transportation of students to schools where they can study in professions, and not only. What Mrs. Zaharieva has touched on for 30 years has not been renewed the curriculum for many professional directions, and there are even no new textbooks in professions, which in this budget this government is betting to provide new textbooks, and in the professional directions. So the detention policy and the promotion of vocational education, the preparation of staff for the labour market is more than clear, including with this budget. For the funds earmarked for sport, there are additional programmes to finance this, as well as interest activities, and other national programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Peeva. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! As Mrs. Zaharieva and Mrs. Peeva said, from now on, let's see what happens. I will quote again a colleague who said: more than the same. As in the last 10 years, we will get more than the same budget with numbers and numbers, but a budget without politics. I will use in the field of inclusive education to give you a statistic which I received 10 days ago from Minister Valchev. For children with special educational needs, only registered because there are many who are not yet registered as children with SOP, and this is seen by all parents whose children are in kindergartens and schools, so what is the statistics? 35 resource teachers average for district center, or one resource teacher for 20 children, one psychologist for 27 children and one logoped for 39 children with SOP. This is policy in the field of inclusive education. What is the policy for a kindergarten teacher who deals with 30 children, and in most of the groups at least two or three children are with SPO? A psychologist and a resource teacher are sent, who for one or two times a week deals with this child half an hour, but again everything is thrown on the teacher's shoulders. His teacher was asked to deal with the children with special educational needs, the teacher was asked to go to the houses to bring the children back to school instead of the relevant institutions that are obliged to do so, to do their job. And then we wonder why we get on the charts, why teachers can't do their job, for which they are really called to teach children in schools and gardens. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, many of you are teachers. Remember that once you stop being MPs, you will return to the classrooms where you will obey the laws that you have forged yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Mehmet, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! A lot of numbers and numbers came out of this tribune. They should normally be sealed, they should also have value. We are people who say white is white, but life is colorful, and in the field of education there are other colors. I would not like to abuse what is at stake as a budget and what is very visible as a sustainable policy for increasing funds in the field of education. However, there is an interesting question that has not received its interesting answer, and it seems to have dangled at that interesting time in which we live: do quantitative accumulations lead to qualitative changes? [[Noise and lines.]] Connect it to the education system. For an evil fate in this budget marathon in which we are present in recent days, an international study on the quality of education proves some poor results. It is shameful for Bulgaria, it is shameful for the Bulgarian school, but that does not mean that we will not recognize them. The question is: what efforts are we going to make to change things in order to raise the level with these funds that have been allocated? My colleagues, almost everyone, affected the financing of Bulgarian schools abroad. Is that a good policy? Yeah, of course it's a good policy. We are all talking about Bulgarianity and we all understand it in the best sense of this word. But I will give you a bad example, Minister. Maybe you'll remember what this is about, because last year there was enough money set aside, my colleagues talked about publishing textbooks abroad. The bad example of us will be that you refused to finance the textbooks in mother tongue, but at the same time the Bulgarian Ministry of Education issued and funded textbooks in French, English textbooks, German textbooks. Fact! When we talk about earmarked funds in the field of education, it is also nice to think about the conditions in the contemporary Bulgarian school. I'm glad you set aside funds to repair professional high schools. It's about time, because, as much as we don't want to admit, municipal schools seem to be at a better level, as if municipalities were able to prepare better projects and as if they were better owners. But what do I mean? Outside is winter, and in 2019 there are schools that are still heating on wood and coal, and in the Ministry there should be a list of such schools. My question is: isn't it high time to develop a program, find money, organize a special fund, and not continue this thing because it's anachronism? When we talk about new technologies, when we talk about modern education with modern didactic tools and good European conditions, it turns out that in the middle of the classroom, during school the cleaning lady comes to put a cumur in the oven. It's not a good picture. At the same time, when there is a good sustainability in terms of increasing funds, and not only for raising teachers' salaries, there is no way that this will not get our support. Let this be a good incentive and indeed all MPs to appreciate this policy and this part of the budget to receive our common support. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Stanilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u32	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I will not sing dithirams for the funding of education in Bulgaria, but I will point out some weaknesses that I have talked about in the Commission and talked to the Minister many times. First, in recent years, the ruling GERB party has devoted really the most money to education. This is commendable, and as you can see, everyone welcomes it, regardless of the notes. Secondly, do not view it as my personal attitude, but such an education minister we have not had since the changes so far. There is really good money and understanding, but the question is: what will we get against it? What are the weaknesses of the current education, what should be done? First of all, in the 1990s, which few people think of, only the selected specialists know about it, the primary and secondary education in mathematics, physics, biology and chemistry are the basic fundamental natural disciplines, with the constant abbreviation of the programs being reduced by times from what was in communism. We have fallen behind in teaching mathematics and those children who are now winning awards outside represent only one, not to say pathetic but very small remnants of that high education in these disciplines. We concentrated on the fact that from literature and history the classics were dropped, some historical truths were distorted and so on, but the main damage we suffered was the natural sciences. Somewhere in the late '70s and '80s with a lot of understanding, many politics and many funds Bulgarian students had caught up and surpassed the average world level of education in natural disciplines. Now we're close to the bottom. This has to end, and it's not just a matter of money, it's a matter of time. The Minister is right when, in one statement, I don't remember where, he said that the current funding, the current measures would produce results in a few years, we can't have these results now. My next note is about the elite education in Bulgaria, which also declines and very few people think about what it is about. It's about schools that have to have special, separate relationships and are subject to higher education programmes that have a high rating in research science. There's a technician, what to call it, a professional high school, I don't really remember the name that's at the Technical University. In the Commission came the five lecturers from the Technical University who were responsible for this knowledge, and from them for the first time I was surprised to learn that 90% of the students in this secondary school remain to study at the MEI and 90% of the graduates of the Technical University remain to work in Bulgaria. This relationship will give us a result if we pay particular attention to the fact that among the unions who are in the portfolio, there are many opponents to this theory, but that does not matter, we either go with the world elite, or we give up at all ourselves. We are an enlightened state, in our country there is writing in the poorest villages even in the early Middle Ages, when the aristocracy in Western Europe does not know to read and write. I can give you countless examples of my own profession, but it's unnecessary, there's no point in talking. And last but not least, although it is the last thing I will talk about, we lose the connection between research science, teaching in higher schools and teaching in secondary schools. Many times I've said it, I'll say it once again: the weak researcher is a weak teacher and can't attract students to follow those students who have to follow everything else. He knows that very well both the Minister and Mr. Finance Minister and so on. If you don't put an accent on all this, there's no use in putting money into it. The money being given should work, not satisfy someone's needs. At the bottom of our failures in education is the deep disintegration of Bulgarian society. From the family begins the school, from the family, from the first four, five, six, seven years! That's where it starts so it can go up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gechev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! I allow myself, based on 39 years of experience in our and foreign universities, to make some recommendations. It is wonderful that, by coincidence, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Finance are here. Dear colleagues, we are all proud that our children win, in small Bulgaria, our students and students win Olympics in chemistry, physics, mathematics, computers, right?! What did it cost the Bulgarian state to form a specialized fund for these children, to finance their education in leading universities? Foreign nations are very happy with Bulgarian children who win Olympics, finance them, they stay and work for them. Is it so difficult to systematize and form a fund to finance these children, to finance their return to Bulgaria, to have a specialized fund to continue their contacts with leading universities for specialization and participation in conferences? Such a fund does not have the best of our children, which we finance with the last leva we properly increase funding, are for the joy of foreign universities, for the joy of foreign economies. Secondly, what do we do for our young researchers? They're low wages, they don't have enough incentives. Dear colleagues of the government, is that so difficult? The Bulgarian state can afford to make specialized funds for these people. Is it difficult to build several dozen apartments a year to provide promising young researchers? There is a system of criteria and indicators for their assessment and this can be extremely useful. Thirdly, whoever is in charge, we do not have the opportunity for three or four years to catch up with the leading universities - the first three hundred - not to mention the first hundred. We suggested that there is nothing party in creating Bulgarian export centers in leading universities to finance. The Greeks have made at the London Economic School the Ellinis Center, where PhD students, lecturers, residents at the most developed economic school in the European Union pass. Bulgaria could start with one, two, three centers. It may not be in economics, it may be in engineering sciences, but we can give impetus and opportunity to leading Bulgarian faculties and specialties to go forward, because we do not have the resources to invest and catch up to the world standards in all universities in Bulgaria, in all faculties and in all majors. Finally, a practical recommendation. Correctly, colleague Velchev, you noted that the attendance of students at lectures is not great. You know perfectly well that for many of our students the second semester is practically ruined. What do you mean? Since the beginning of April, many of our students have gone to pick strawberries in Britain or in the United States. I want to be understood correctly. It is wonderful that our young people can have touch with foreign cultures, see other countries. But isn't it wrong, in my opinion, for the Bulgarian state to silently agree to break our second semesters in higher education institutions to go to our students to pick strawberries? Are there students from Germany, France or the US during their second semester to pick strawberries in Bulgaria or Albania? I probably won't. These are things related to the organization of the learning process and its effectiveness. I conclude with this: we can increase the effectiveness of higher education as well, because it is related to my profession. We can sit down and solve problems together, not with a lot of resources, which will benefit most of all our young and promising people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u36	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! I'll start with a comparison. Yesterday I was metaphorically designated as a militarian, but now I'm going to make an explanation, which has already been said, but to be taken out. In this budget, the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs gave twice and a half more for education than for defence. Two and a half more for education than for defense! I do not accept the opposition colleagues' thesis that, in this part of it, the budget is the epitome of the maxim more than the same. I can argue for a long time, and the impartial opinion will appreciate that in the field of education in the last few years this government and Minister Valchev have made significant changes, I do not want to use the word "reforms" because it has already acquired negative significance. I hope at the end of the debate, and I appeal to Minister Valchev to show some of these reforms. I remember I was a witness and a participant in a meeting of the Education Committee in Veliko Tarnovo when the draft budget 2018 was first presented and the reforms that were proposed at the time in the system for financing secondary education. I remember, as I have left, the enthusiastic assessments of the opposition representatives in this committee. They were enthusiastic with such impressions I have remained, perhaps I am mistaken in my memories that this, if it happens, will be very good for education. Of course, in the Chamber the assessments were quite different and different. I'm going to say a few things: what happened and what's still going on. We have forgotten that the system of funding institutions in pre-school and school education has been substantially changed. The maximum money follows the student is already quite difficult to protect. The increase in wages and wages in this system is unnecessary to repeat, for a third consecutive year is a fact. As a historian, I can't think of at least my experience of life, which is over 30 years in education, that this has ever happened in the time of transition, whether in the past time, which for some is better, for some not so good. There is no other case in the coming years of such a policy in the education system. And if this is not a manifestation of the policy that education is a priority, a real priority, I do not see what else it can be. I do not accept the thesis that the government and the majority do not care and do not pursue a policy for the development of Bulgarian schools abroad. I absolutely don't accept it! I do not even personally accept it because our relations with the Association of Bulgarian Schools abroad exceed the limits of this mandate. And in the previous, do not take it as a compliment to Minister Valchev, then he was a senior official as Secretary General of the Ministry, he showed personal commitment and support, and now as a minister he is pursuing an active policy with which we do not simply agree, we actively support it for the development of this, let's call it an education system abroad. The development of the system, which was correctly noted by you, is due precisely to the care of the state and government. On the subject of higher education. For the first time, we will have to note that higher education funds exceed half a billion over 500 million. lv. I do not accept the general thesis that salaries in higher education are lower than in average because they are a function of the work of one and the other universities. There are universities where the pay is lower, but there are also universities that give very good salaries to their teachers, and I hope in discussing the Law on Higher Education, once again I say it, to active and positive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Anastasova, come in for a statement. Are there any other speeches after Mrs. Anastasova? I'll close the debate after Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! I'm not going in the tone of Mrs. Zaharieva or Mr. Mihov, I'm not going back in time. Everyone who knows me knows that I have always stood up for the position that Bulgarian education will be what we deserve to have only if there is a national consensus on education issues, including a party education. I didn't say anything different in the Commission or in this House. I have no impression that we have appreciated the endlessly enthusiastic budgets. We've just commented on the problems and appreciated the positives. This budget for education is also positive. I say this with full awareness that more funds are being allocated and that in the last three years, this is really the policy. However, I am expressing my concerns, I said this in the Commission, because for schools the single cost standard is increasing by 16%. This was stated as early as April 2018 and teachers' salaries increased by a minimum of 17%. That's what happened last year. One cost standard was increased by 17% and teachers' salaries by 20%. We know that the main part of the single cost standard is wages. This led school directors to comply with the demand for wage increases, to use as much as possible, to squeeze out school budgets, and thus they were deprived of funds for other costs. In this sense, I say that schools that will not be able to reach this wage increase should be helped in another way in order to eventually reach this increase without other feathers suffering. And now: where does the education money go? In the system. Are they effectively used? Our answer is a little different here. Yes, it is good that the funds are increasing, but the results of the latest PISA study prove that we are far from effective use of these funds. I will not comment on all six studies, and a thorough analysis should also be carried out here, but the following conclusions are drawn that relate to budgeting. The first conclusion of these results is that the reform of education has completely failed... [[(Noise and lines from GERB and OP:]] You haven't heard from me since the year 2000, when the management was of the UDF and Minister was Veselin Metodiev. These results show a complete failure of this reform! The second that they show: we have a sharp difference and this is very disturbing between the quality of education in different schools, the so-called schools with the best achievements, and those with the lowest, the difference is 54%. This speaks not only of a distorted funding model. I want to be properly understood not only. The distorted funding model in the years has also led to this, and I welcome the last two years' efforts of the Ministry of Education to correct the so-called formula of delegated budgets, but we see that there are still a lot of problems and these efforts must continue, because this is already scary when we talk that good children, if they get into such schools, will not receive the appropriate quality education. The next very disturbing conclusion: that the number is reduced between children with very good educational results and children with very low, but is reduced at the expense of the decrease in the results of good children, not vice versa. Why am I saying all this?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u39	The weather, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u40	Because, among other things, the level of a system and the quality of the results achieved is also the result of the budgeting, by which I would like to say that the more effective use of the resources allocated to the education system should be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Mrs. Damyanova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I had no intention of speaking, but I will allow myself, as we have also addressed the results of the Bulgarian students from the last International Study PISA, to say a few sentences. Let us say clearly from this tribune and not only that, as long as the trend continues, not all of us are working deliberately for changes in the educational system, we should not even hope that we will have better results in these studies. Ms. Anastasova is right that this study has checked the results of the students studying under the old system. The skills of students who study by models are checked, too different from those who check and evaluate international research. It's a matter of principle. We can't ask for high results from students, we can't ask for new skills in the already open labour market and we can't ask for better performance in practical and other situations if we continue to teach according to a model that is no longer relevant. We have extremely good practices in kindergartens and schools already. We have schools that work well, but while these practices are implemented schematically, halves and not of all, the results will be again. And here the problem is not the teachers, dear colleagues. The problem is in our overall understanding that the model from the end of the last century and from the beginning of this one is actually no longer working. Until we ask ourselves the question: why is this model not working, we can't have a change. In the various speeches there were actually a number of opinions about children with special educational needs, about the material base. I'll only allow myself to quote a few numbers. For example, regarding the material base. The Operational Programme "Regional Development" has been renovated by 2013 with measures for energy efficiency 450 schools, 400 kindergartens and 43 universities. For 2018 and 2019 only we have invested in the material base nearly 700 million. BGN, which allows and allows for repairs in more than 500 kindergartens and schools. With regard to inclusive education, yes, we are debtors here in general to children, although inclusive education does not concern only children with special educational needs. The foundation of inclusive education is understanding and philosophy that every child has talent and the system must make it supported and developed. For children with special educational needs and resource support for this year, we have 65,5 million. lv. I'm not going to go on, there are really many numbers said, but I'm going to add something else, since it's also about wages. Teacher's work and his reward. Colleagues, let us say something clearly: the social and professional status of the Bulgarian teacher is an exceptional state and public responsibility. We, as a majority leader, are showing this very clearly as the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. Let's also say that the teacher for decades has been placed at the bottom of the social ladder and this is the worst mistake of the politicians of that time and yes, it is now necessary time for the teacher to show that the quality of his work is related to the results of future generations. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I agree with the previous colleagues from the BSP parliamentary group who advocated that more funds does not mean more quality. When you pour funds into an unreformed system, they don't always work. I make it clear that I'm not an expert in education, but I turn around... [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u45	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u46	...to colleagues from Veliko Tarnovo region, especially to this part of the government. Are you satisfied with the state of higher education institutions on the territory of Veliko Tarnovo district? Let's take the VUM in Svishtov as an example. If anyone wants to, let him come out and replicate me, has the VUM ever been in such a difficult state as the one in which he is currently in, despite all the funds you're talking about investing in higher education? University of Veliko Tarnovo. Are you satisfied, colleagues, with the condition he is in right now? And when you say that you pay a lot of attention to the higher education institutions, I am taking my next words carefully, my colleagues, you are paying attention, but in the wrong direction. Veliko Tarnovo University is an example of this: for two or three years there has been a fierce political battle in it, although the VUM must be a territory free from politics, politically neutral. And this battle with the government does not lead her BSP, this battle I say it categorically, she leads GERB with the United Patriarchs in a political struggle are involved political entities involved...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u47	What does that have to do with the budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u48	This is for first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u49	What does that have to do with the budget, Mr. Bojankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u50	...even student advice and students. Here's your attitude towards higher education - fighting for power even in the territory of the VUMs! Well, there's no way, despite all the means you're talking about, that there's any outcome, because everything you're doing right now is headed in the wrong direction, namely strengthening your power positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I thank all those who have taken account of art. 16 and gave an opinion on the funding of education. The education system is the largest public system. There are nearly 4,000 institutions in it, nearly 150,000 working, simultaneously probably 200 processes, activities happen daily. If I'm in your shoes, I'll certainly find not five, not ten, but probably 50 unfunded activities. Each of these institutions has probably dozens of needs. Under no circumstances can we finance all these needs with a single budget. The funds are never enough and have never been, and so much 600 million is the real increase for next year, without the increase of EU funds. Here I add the 70 million, which are additionally laid down for the construction of kindergartens, the completion of schools. The biggest increase is actually for teachers. You're talking about results, but let's see how the teachers' funding is linked to the results. Here we cannot apply the principle that we will finance what has worked. It's like saying, we're going to water this tree that gave good fruit. Here the logic is the opposite.. first we have to drink and then wait for fruit. Therefore, the results of education are long-term, so today we are picking the fruits of saving in previous decades of education. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is the logic of funding education. The best PISA countries with the highest results are those in which the best students become teachers. But they became teachers because their budget policy was not subject to the principle of first showing results, then giving. They invested with the blind faith as they did our ancestors decades ago, because the teacher was, is and will remain the main factor in the education system. We must first invest, motivate the best students to become teachers and then expect results. The increase in remuneration is not sufficient, but is a mandatory condition for improving the results. The other mandatory condition was to adopt the Preschool and School Education Act. The problem isn't the adopted law, it's his late adoption. Because if we had accepted it earlier, today we would have been a few years ahead of the effective introduction of the competence approach. Under these two words, we summarize the change that needs to happen in the system, the transition that the system must make from a knowledge-based system to a system that manages to transform knowledge into skills. In other studies such as Perse, we are in the eighth-nineth place in Europe, even in front of the most developed European countries, but in PISA, which is oriented towards measuring skills, we remain with low results. Nothing new in PISA is confirming our analysis of the previous years, confirming our analysis of the national external assessments. Ms. Anastasova called for consensus. It is very important to have the political consensus that teachers' salaries are above the country's average in the long term, at least 120% of the country's average. If we succeed in maintaining this political consensus, we will also have good education in the long term. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u53	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're going to vote on art. 16. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Jevdet Chakarov and a group of MPs. They voted 210 MPs: 88, against 34, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 213 MPs: for 92, against 57, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 16 on the Commission report. They voted 211 MPs: 133, against 75, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u54	Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MPs Julian Angelov and Georgi Yordanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: I. In para. 1: (a) in Section II - in line II. The cost of the number..217 050,5....217 - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 10.2. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit corporate entities the number - create rows 1.2.2.3., 1.2.2.4. and 1.2.2.5: supposed to meet the Union of Thracian Companies in Bulgaria 120.0 supposed to meet the Macedonian Institute of Science 120.0 "1.2.2.5. Bulgarian association of the generas from Macedonia 60.0 (b) in Section III, in row III. "Budget relationships (transfers) " and row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. In para. 2: - on line one. A policy on the conservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage is replaced by a policy on the conservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage. - in line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Maria Tsvetkova, Boris Borisov and Krasimir Bogdanov. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in Section II (a) in row II. The cost of the number..217 050,5....217 (b) of row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number (c) of row 10.2. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit corporate entities the number (d) Row 1.2.2.3 shall be created: supposed to meet the Bulgarian association of the generas from Macedonia 55.0 2. in Section III: (a) in row III. Budgetary relations (transfers) and row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..184 050,5...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) In para. 2: - on line one. Policy in the field of protection of movable and immovable cultural heritage the number - in line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II - in line II. The cost of the number..217 - on line one. Current costs the number - in row 1.1. Staff number (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - in row III, budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 2. Policy in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u55	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Tsvetkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to argue the proposal that we have tabled with our fellow Members from the European Union, which concerns the funding of 55 thousand. lv. from the state budget of the Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia. Why is it important that we do this? The Association is a member of the descendants of great Bulgarians. Among them are Colonel Boris Drangov's granddaughter, Rayna Dragova; the granddaughter and grandson of the legendary leader of VMRO Todor Alexandrov, Evelina and Todor Alexandrov; the grandson of the voivod, Michela Razvegorov; the granddaughter of the Bulgarian folklorist and the scribe from Ohrid Kuzman Shapkarev, as well as the scientists, Professor Todor Petrov, Associate Professor Alexander Grebenarov, Naum Kaichev, Hristo Grigorov, as well as relatives of Mile Popdordanov. These are the descendants of Bulgarians who died for the unification and liberation of Bulgaria. What is their activity? Every year on the territory of the Republic of Northern Macedonia they participate in events such as: the anniversaries of the Ilinden-Preobrazhian uprising in the Bitola village of Smilevo, in the pilgrimages organized in memory of Mara Buneva at Vardar's pier in Skopje, as well as in the worships related to the memory of Colonel Kavarnaliev at Doyran. They participate in the military rituals and panihids, which are organized at the Bulgarian military cemeteries in Tsapari, in Novo selo, of course, and in many events organized on the territory of Bulgaria. In addition, the Bulgarian Association of the Generations of Macedonia publishes books, including books about the Miladinov brothers, books about the Macedonian-Audrin militia, about the Balkan wars, about Colonel Boris Dragov, about the poet revolutionary Peyo Yavorov and many others. Why are these people valuable? They are valuable because they are an example of the growing generation here, on the territory of Bulgaria, and they have the very important task and mission to preserve Bulgarianity in Macedonia, to help the growing generation in the Republic of Northern Macedonia to learn more about its root, its identity and the history of its ancestors. The Bulgarian association of the families from Macedonia is important and we are obliged to support its work, as they are a bridge between the generations of the two branches of a brotherly people. Here, from this tribune, over the last few days many people, many fellow MPs have identified themselves as patriots and patriots, and I invite them now to show their patriotism and support our proposal. As I, of course, call not only on my fellow Members from the European Union to support this proposal, but also all my fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups. It's about the modest amount of $55,000. BGN, because these people deserve it, they give meaning to the words family, homeland, homeland, national memory. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsvetkova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Yotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u58	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister, Madam Minister! I would like to speak with regard to this. 2, para. 2 "Policy in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education. Here I have an offer for an extra 15 million. I'll tell you what they're connected to. Since I have been in this Parliament, I would very much like the salaries of artists to be promoted in some way, because they are indeed insultingly small in our country. Everyone knows that. Watching many films not only American, many others, I see how in many countries in schools there are theater compositions. In my opinion, many of the artists who go out are blurting out of the Academy every year. Not everyone can get a job, not everyone can have this luck to become very famous, to work for them and so on. There are those who are in a good theater, play a lot, but their salary is not enough. I think it's a chance for an extra half a salary, for example, that can get an actor, leading a theater group to school. On the other hand, for the students, for the young people who very well know that they do not read much about the common culture, which is quite low level, a young person, when dealing with theater and entering the world of the theater, touch the world of Shakespeare and of Yavorov, this means that this young person will start reading.. to read plays, to read poems, to read literature. In addition to reading it, it will be necessary if he plays in a performance and memorizes it, and that means further developing the intellectual abilities of young people. So this proposal has two things to do with the better intellectual education of adolescents and an opportunity for additional income of very much of Bulgarian artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yotova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues and ministers! The proposals made by the BSP in the column "Custody" are related in general to two things - one, of course, and the most important are the salaries of people working in the field of culture. In point (a), point (a) We have proposed an increase of 10 million. lv. the salary money. I do not believe that the Minister of Culture is opposed to increasing money for salaries and that everyone would like, if possible, to give better wages. The question is, is there a reason? Naturally, in all areas everyone yells: "Abe, give more money!" This is the situation, this is the way the budget works and this will be the normal situation everyone will say: "Give more! However, I am going out to justify that this makes sense, and that after all other requests to raise wages and costs, this is precisely the demand when it comes to raising salaries in culture, it is extremely important. And it is important because, unfortunately, over the last 30 years, this sector has been extremely underestimated with small ups sometimes, in the end we have come to a situation where these salaries are insulting. We can't ask intellectuals, people who carry a charge, people who have to have extraordinary training and have thinking beyond everyday problems, to receive salaries that much of the sector gets. It's just not normal. The result of this whole thing directly reflects on our nation and on how we perceive things around us. If our people are increasingly buried in everyday life and in the thought of how to survive by tomorrow, as the poet said, this is largely due to the lack of funds, to the misery in which these people live. So the increase in wages in the field of culture, if we want to have adequate people against ourselves, not only the people who receive these salaries, but entirely our people and our nation in some way to have some light and vision, this is the way. I am convinced that raising money, wages and incomes in the field of culture is of many times more important than education, perhaps, than other areas. Because this is about an area that can't support itself. Because whatever we're talking about, the vast majority of culture in a country, really looking at six or eight million people, depending on how you count it, in an extremely narrow market, there's no way that all of this stuff can stand itself and bring up big opportunities. It's not Russian, it's not English-speaking, it's not a Spanish-speaking market. For me, the issue of wages is extremely important. And the second thing we propose is what Nona Yotova is talking about in part and in para. 2 of the second row: the policy in the area of creation and focus of contemporary art, where we offer a significant increase in costs. Many things can be covered, including what Nona Yotova was talking about. However, for me one of the major problems is the state of Bulgarian cinema. By the way, I have enjoyed watching wonderful Bulgarian films for the last 10 years. Unfortunately, not all of them, but some of them are really remarkable, including here two or three weeks ago were some premieres that were extremely good cinema. However, we all know that cinema is an extremely expensive art and yet it comes down to this sad six-million-dollar market. There's no way a good and very expensive art, like cinema, can support itself on our six-million-dollar market. It's just impossible. The idea that we're gonna get this movie out on the Hollywood level is not gonna happen. However, what we can do is put in the elementary money, because 10 million or 11 million, as different as what the Ministry of Culture currently grants, I think that about 14 million in total for cinema, up to the 25 million claimed by filmmakers' organisations, this is not some colossal sum for this country at all. And we can't support this art if that doesn't happen. So in this column we also mean to increase the money for cinema because, again, I say, such an art left on the market will simply die and Bulgaria has traditions in this art. Bulgaria has wonderful filmmakers, we have wonderful directors and actors, including many of them young people who are currently starting and working with extremely much passion and talent. For me, this support specifically "first," salaries and second, in the field of cinema to increase the money in order to be able to become somewhat possible to support Bulgarian cinema and to be able to create a product, it is absolutely necessary. Given that, in fact, European cinematographs for me, European cinema is what gives quality productions to the state... [[the President signals that time has run out]] massively support their industries. There is no way without the support of this industry, and it is supported by French for example, and France has a much larger population, culture and alimony. We have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? Next statement Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! I am sure that in this House we have no doubt that it is culture that distinguishes us from all nations and nations. Our culture, history, traditions, folklore, art makes us different from the nations and this is part of our national identity. Today, because we are talking about a budget for culture, I will draw attention to one aspect of this budget, which forms our policy in terms of preservation and preservation of real cultural heritage monuments, one would say an extremely important policy which also has an impact in the economy.. Since a short time ago there was also the Minister of Tourism, a major share in the economy, which concerns cultural heritage and cultural and historical tourism. I therefore appeal to the Members of the National Assembly to support our proposal for an increase in the funds that concern the preservation and preservation of the real monuments of cultural heritage. Because here is also the Minister of Culture I would like to share a concern regarding the preservation of these monuments and I would say that very few are left the architectural and museum reserves in Bulgaria, left in the way our ancestors left them, what they have created. I would like to say an example with a village that is close to Veliko Tarnovo, an architectural museum reserve that they reserve, I would say is already outside of this characteristic. The village is Arbanassi, known to all Bulgarians, an infinitely valuable national capital. It's all written down that there are 140 houses left. Unfortunately, very few houses. The museum exhibits, the museum houses that are left, are only two of which one has not worked for 12 years. Not to say that in Veliko Tarnovo there is part of Kolyo Ficheto's legacy, an indisputable artist who has bequeathed his heritage and we in these years, when European funds work, when there is also an opportunity to finance the storage of these monuments, cannot allocate funds. I am aware of how modest the funds with which we want to complement the Ministry's budget and that we cannot satisfy all those other monuments are thousands, but let us start somewhere. I know the Ministry is taking care of this, but let's start somewhere and somewhere in normalism, because I know how much chaos there is. I know there's a big problem with the ownership of these buildings, but let's put an emphasis on this policy! Because after years, there is nothing to show to the Bulgarians, not only to the Bulgarians, but also to foreign tourists, because this is part of the economy of this country. Let's start because our and foreign tourists do not want to see the new neighborhoods, they want to see the cultural, historical heritage of our country. I therefore hope that you will support us in this idea and desire to pursue a meaningful policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! In the Law on Bulgarian Cinema, the famous art. 17, which is an imperative norm, the following is indicated: "Each year Bulgaria must spend funds for seven films featured, for 10 films documentary and 180 minutes of animation. " - I repeat, this article. 17 is imperative. Unfortunately, for ten years this article in the Law has not been implemented and here it does the honour of Minister Banov that now the budget is estimated around 14,5 million, but the truth is that according to the norms for the realization of this film production, a minimum of 19 million are needed. So once again, we, in our budget, will not implement an imperative norm of one of the main laws in culture "The Law of Bulgarian Cinema." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u66	Dear Mr. Atanasov, as I have already said, in the proposals tabled by our parliamentary group, this money is foreseen, so I hope, if not all, at least part of the Patriots will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u67	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! I would just like to say a few sentences to support the proposal made by colleague Nona Yotova. In recent years of the long transition, some may have been under the impression that performing arts are mainly entertainment. That's not true. If we go back to the roots of the Bulgarian theatre, say, we will see that it was born exactly as an enlightenment society that it was the only mass phenomenon that enlightened and enlightened the Bulgarian population. If we remember the beginning of the theatre in Lom, in Shumen, even if you remember a recent novel that's so chaotic, the recent novel of Vazov and remember the chapter of the show, it would be very unnecessary to explain why Bulgarian performing arts, education and education go hand in hand and that culture can only only increase the moral virtues of students, show them the good, educate them, show them works that they study or who do not study, but are popular. I therefore ask you to support this proposal, beyond all the other reasons that have been said, so that we can unite the efforts of culture and education, to invest in a smart, sensitive and virtuous generation that is coming after us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Popdimitrov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches Mr. Chenchev, then Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u70	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take very briefly the suggestions of Mr. Popdimitrov, of course, Nona Yotova, Anton Kutev. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we offered the so-called cultural check a year ago. The idea at that time was to allow young people to have access to culture, because in smaller settlements, in hard-to-reach settlements they do not have such an opportunity. It was through Mrs. Yotova's proposal with the 15 million. lv. For performing arts, I think that this access will be granted, especially to young people. The cultural check suggested that everyone aged 18 get 200 BGN to give him access to culture, to Bulgarian performing arts and cinema, of course. I call upon you indeed. What Mr. Kutev said is very wise, very reasonable because Bulgarian cinema needs this money. And we have it planned, which is what Mr. Atanasov is talking about. So culture, especially for young people, is extremely important in today's modern world. Because culture, and Bulgarian culture, should not only be Googled. It's all around us. All we have to do is ensure and do everything possible for adolescents, young people, those who are yet to navigate in life, and what professions they will practice, have access to culture, see it, appreciate it, understand how much it is needed, how important it is, so that they can then apply the different interests and professions they want to practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Chenchev, with all due respect, I'll get you a line. I just got off the phone with our Minister of Culture about what I just said, so I'm using the line, and you're gonna hear why. There's been a change in this notorious article. 17, which will provide additional funds for Bulgarian cinema.. documentary cinema and animation, so I can only admire what I have just learned. Mr. Chenchev, I want to remind you of a very interesting case. It is about the spring of 1940, when the ministers of Churchill go to him and ask him: "Sir Churchill, at any moment the Germans will invade the Isle, at all costs we must separate money for weapons. " - Churchill then asks them: "Lord, tell us where to get the money? The historical words of the old MPs know them, I say them about the new ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u73	And for the young.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u74	And the young MPs. Then he says, "Lord, if I give the money to the culture, England is no longer there to fight for, the Germans better come."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Do we have another line? I can't see. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! I will speak on the proposal of our parliamentary group. Firstly, if you are impressed, we have tabled a proposal for an increase of 10 million. lv. for staff salaries. I suppose that everyone in this House is aware that the Ministry should be supported because the people who work in cultural institutions, above all in libraries, museums, community centers, but also in other places where they show Bulgarian culture with one extremely high competence, have some of the lowest salaries. It's not heroic last year that we have very little increase in the salaries of libraries. Here I would like to draw attention and call you to look into our proposal, because we are all going to the cultural institutes and we are very proud of them, and a lot of hypocrisy is sometimes involved when we express regret that yes, you see, you are with very low wages, but work. Secondly, we have offered 38 million. lv. in the overall budgetary relations of the Ministry itself. Our conclusion is that there is little money for culture. There is little money for culture, and here it is a matter of political attitude towards culture. I will not compare the policy that then Minister Stefan Danailov, his bright memory, as a strong political person managed to take from the cabinet in which he was a minister. Here do not neglect the Minister, but take a political decision seriously and strongly so that we can support the culture in Bulgaria. Next, I would like to refer to the proposal that our colleague Georgi Yordanov made with the MP Julian Krastev. There are proposals to separate 300,000. lv. for the Union of Thracian Companies in Bulgaria, the Macedonian Scientific Institute and the Bulgarian Association of Generations from Macedonia. I hope that we are all aware of the debate we are having and the Agreement we signed for Macedonia, and that, yes, our Institute of the Macedonian Scientific Institute, and the Bulgarian Association of Generations must have more funds. We need to give them an opportunity at the moment, but we are also aware of the mission of the Union of Thracian companies in Bulgaria as a patriotic and patriotic organization. And not only that, it advocates to a large extent the interests of the Bulgarian citizens who were in Thrace and lost many of their personal things, along with this it protects the dignity of the Bulgarians. I would therefore like to address you, Members of the National Assembly, to support our proposal, it is very modest against the background of what is needed, and to see the three patriotic and patriotic organizations that need support. Last but not least, since we are in this Chamber and we are debating the policies for culture Mr. Minister, be more active, the policies related to the European allocation of funds are now being formed, from all operational programs try to take financial resources for the huge building fund, where it is exposed and the Bulgarian culture is preserved. These are the centers and spirituality, because there is no money in the budget otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u78	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will focus on three points in connection with the financing of Bulgarian culture. The first is that for Bulgarian culture, however, and perhaps we should finally reach this level to separate 1% of gross domestic product. There's no doubt about it. I know a lot of people won't agree, and whether the finance minister will agree with me, but it doesn't matter to the problem we're facing. The second concerns the movable and immovable cultural heritage. A few years ago, I tried to make a bill that referred to this. In most of the European countries, there is a cultural heritage fee on the tourist package when tourists are accommodated in hotels. At the time, I stumbled into the Dutch town of Rotterdam and slept in one of the hotels for three nights. It turned out when I was paying myself that the municipality of Rotterdam paid me a fee for my cultural heritage. 11 euros per night. In return, I received a postcard with several cultural monuments from Rotterdam. They were all medieval, below it said: "The Mayor of Rotterdam thanked you for giving away these funds for the cultural heritage of the city. Talking to a few people and finally with the Minister of Finance in Bulgaria Mr. Vladislav Goranov, I developed a project I presented to him to introduce such a fee of cultural heritage. He redesigned the project, gave it to his team of lawyers, returned it to me and said that a cultural heritage fee under our law the state cannot collect, but can collect municipalities. I was suggesting a euro. The calculations were that a minimum of 3.5 million would go into the year. BGN, which is a lot of money for the maintenance of these monuments. Because colleagues who do not know should know that the main item is not funding conservation and restoration research. The main feather is maintenance, which is very difficult and very expensive under our climate conditions. I started entering the administration to see what obstacles I could get and it turned out that the only ones who are against this law are from the Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria. I was told that they did not agree to collect this money, of which two thirds remain with them, and a third must go to the Ministry of Culture and that all money should go to the municipalities and they should have them as they see fit. With this, I took my paperwork and refused to submit this bill, for which, by the way, for information to colleagues from GERB, knew even the Prime Minister, and said that this was commendable, but since municipalities are against it, there is no way that this work will happen. However, in the coming months, I will introduce this bill and try to convince you that you must accept it. It's one of the few decisions you can make. That's quite possible. In addition, the fee is not 11 euros, as in the Netherlands, but is one euro per night, with nothing will reduce the profits of hoteliers, municipalities and so on, because it is above the taxes that are being paid now. The other thing I would like to say is that there is no direct link to the budget, but to draw you attention to the following. At the National Archaeological Museum there is a unique exhibition at the moment, I will ask you how many of them visited it this is the exhibition of the Bulgarian Art of the First Kingdom in the Louvre, which was moved here, whose opening was only the Deputy Minister of Culture, the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, his deputy and the Deputy Mayor of Sofia Todor Chobanov. No one else has pleased, and as far as I know, no one has gone from the authorities. I will also remind you that when five years ago in the Louvre there was an exhibition of Thracian art, which is a Bulgarian cultural heritage, but these are not Bulgarian monuments, it was the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture, who was a very large team of visitors. And last year when we opened this exhibition in the Louvre, it was just the ambassador and the cultural attaché. The ambassador stayed for 20 minutes and left. That's the way it is. At last the identity of the Bulgarian people, the national reserves and old Bulgarian capitals should receive special attention, but they do not receive, I do not know why! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote first the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Julian Angelov and Georgi Yordanov. They voted 182 MPs: 81, against 17, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Maria Tsvetkova, Boris Vangelov and Krasimir Bogdanov. They voted 178 MPs: 82, against 17, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 189 MPs: 78, against 48, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 17. Vote 189 MPs: 111, against 77, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u80	Under art. 18 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II - in line II. The cost of the number - on line one. Current costs the number - in row 1.1. Staff number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' by "supplied'. (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number..13 - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..69 2. In para. 2: (a) A new row 3 shall be created: "3." Natural disaster prevention policy 10 000,0. b) current row 3 becomes row 4; c) of line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u81	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Environmental issues are not problems of Bulgaria or the European Union, they are global problems. I regret that the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water see it as art. 18, and it was logical, if not first, at least second, third, because these are extremely important questions related to the coming years.................................................................................... On 28 November, that is, a week ago, the European Parliament announced an emergency climate situation. The Commission must ensure that all proposals comply with the 1.5 degree target. The European Union must reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 and become climate neutral by 2050. It calls on all countries in the European Union, including Bulgaria, to reduce global emissions from maritime and air transport. The budget states that it implements the environmental sectoral policies inherent in your competences, the management of climate change activities, policies in the water sector, policy on improving air quality, transition to a circular economy, increasing the amount of recycled waste. A study by the European Union Member States in all countries shows that Europeans are not well informed about the air quality they are breathing, the fact that air quality has deteriorated over the past 10 years. Only the citizens of Finland, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Lithuania, Britain, Austria, Denmark and Poland believe that they are well informed about air cleanliness. The opinion is more than 50% of those interviewed in these countries. Where is Bulgaria and where are these policies laid down in the budget of the Ministry of Environment? The survey says that the worst informed citizens of Portugal, Italy, Romania and, notice, last place is Bulgaria. Unfortunately, however, all this is also related to the quality of expertise. From the BSP parliamentary group in almost all budgets, we propose wage increases and in the Committee on the Environment with my colleagues, we have raised the issue of remuneration and wages, especially in agencies, offices, secondary officers, those who have to implement the policy and conduct the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water. There's no way with a salary of 600, 700, 800 BGN. to keep quality specialists. They leave, go to the private sector and issues related to environmental standards remain unresolved. Therefore, in all rankings related to the problems of ecology, Bulgaria is last. That is why our parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is not going to support the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u83	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? I don't see any speeches either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 182 MPs: 70, 47, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 18. Vote 182 MPs: 108 against 74 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u84	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. Nineteen. Twenty-one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u85	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u86	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. President! I would like to comment on the draft budget of the Ministry of Economy for 2020, because in it something has made me unpleasant impression on the funds that are provided for there under the budget programme "Promoting investments to increase the competitiveness of our economy" for the next year are less than those that were planned for spending in this year. If, for 2019, these funds amounted to 15,4 million. For this year, the planned funds amount to 11.3 million. lv. and this in general against the backdrop of the increased budget of the Ministry, with almost 11 million compared to this year. Here is the place to note that for the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................. I say this because the Ministry of Finance itself as an importer of the State Budget Act acknowledges that Bulgaria can reach the average European standard of living after 20 years, and if the forecast rate of economic growth is maintained at 3.3% per year and provided that the economy of the European Union does not grow by more than 1.2%. Yesterday in his speech on the occasion of art. 1 of the State Budget Act I already had the opportunity to comment on the investment climate in the country and investment sentiment in countries such as Germany, France and Italy, which traditionally have the greatest investor interest in us. I would repeat that in terms of attracting investment, we cannot help but worry about the negative role of the unstable geopolitical environment and the growing protectionism of the countries around us, as well as the continuing uncertainty about Brexit's process. These concerns are also reinforced by the fact that in our proposed draft capital expenditures have generally been reduced, which is also the case yesterday - the so-called state investment. This, in itself, is another factor in slowing down our country's economic growth and the deterioration of the investment environment. It is in situations such as the current state investment that are the safest means to increase the potential of our economy. In addition to infrastructure, they can create and prepare qualified labour, attract generally the interest of the private sector, including external investors. All of this, combined with our country's poor assessment, in the World Bank's Doing Business ranking, we are now 61 and we are practically ahead of all countries in our region, and it makes me think that attracting investment in Bulgaria will not be an easy task and will require much more effort next year and, of course, funds from those provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, honourable Minister, honourable Members of the House! I take account of art. 20.... the budget of the Ministry of Energy.................................................................................................. I get up several times and explain that the budget is not just numbers but also policies, and we need to discuss what policies are behind the numbers. Unfortunately, in the case of the Ministry of Energy's budget, we will still only talk about numbers. Even during the review of the Draft Law at first reading in the Energy Commission, in order to make it clear what is behind these numbers, we had asked the Ministry to send us the programming form of the budget, where the activities are described, how the policies will be carried out, what objectives are being pursued and what results are expected. Unfortunately, so far, the project form of the budget has not been given to us and we do not know what it is about. All we know is that in al. Two, row 1 of § 20, where it is recorded: The policy in the field of sustainable and competitive energy development stands an amount of 76 million. 918 thousand. 200 leva. If anyone can tell us what's behind this number? I don't use the word "cifra" for a reason, because these are several characters that are collected without knowing their meaning, without knowing what this is about. If someone can explain to me: what policies are hidden here; what exactly will we develop; what will be the part that is competitive; what does sustainable energy development mean in viewing government policy in this area congratulate them?! I am convinced that perhaps other than the Minister of Energy, perhaps the Minister of Finance who wrote it, no one else can know what is behind these numbers. There is therefore no way in the dark to support this budget and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for Articles 19, 20 and 21. Vote 172 MPs: 97, against 73, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u90	Under art. 22 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II - in line II. The cost of the number....438 682,3...is replaced by.450 - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number s "143 097,2" is replaced by "155 097,2." (b) in Section III, Budgetary Relations (transfers): - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..97 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 2. Policy to maintain, modernise and build technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources and geodefense the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2, p. The 2th number..384 929,6........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u91	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u92	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at the budget of perhaps one of the most important ministries dealing with the modernisation of infrastructure in the country. And it's no coincidence in art. 1 we proposed another approach, but, unfortunately, it has been rejected, much more funds for capital, for state public infrastructure. Now, fellow Members, if you look closely at the budget, you will see that 384 million are allocated for policies to maintain, modernise and build technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility, integrated water management and geodefense. This, in our opinion, is extremely insufficient and we are offering a minimum increase of 100 million. At least! Why? The problems related to water are screaming and will become more and more because we see the climate and other features related to the infrastructure for which the Ministry itself is responsible. If we have a debate, here screaming are the questions and problems with the means of geodefense. There is a large list of names, but the modest funds that are being allocated to a little bit of geodefense and a little bit of the Committee on Disasters and Accidents do not cure the problems of landslide processes, geodefense and modernization of the country. Speaking of transport accessibility, these are the funds that we say: see, there is money in the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure". Now again: here in this budget are the money from the wineries, but in this budget, colleagues, there is no money from the toll system. We have repeatedly insisted that the budget committee and now the money from the toll system come here. It is no coincidence that we are commenting on the price of freight charges for the toll system, and that we are 12 to 10 and from January they must be introduced, does that mean that this year will be further away by another six months and we will not be able to raise the expected 450 million? I remember the sharp commentary in the Budget Committee of colleague Alexander Nenkov when he said: we will raise a billion and two hundred. Sasho, you remember! Now, in this year, we're going to 450, next according to the Minister's data at 600 and again 600. Oh, it's 2021 coming up! And in 2021 it will be the echo of the old planning period and we will have no funds for public state infrastructure for highways. The highway ring is falling behind as capital is not being spent. It reached the point that last week the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth " 2014 " 2020 to take money from the municipalities and to give 57 million. lv. for the Hemus Highway. Here in Al. 3 are put as opportunities to spend an additional 60 million. lv. About what? For the National Energy Efficiency Programme, which perhaps this year should end these 2022 blocs, and for the financing of the Motorway! There is another issue here that I do not expect the position of the minister and the government. Colleagues, as of 2016 2500 associations of living in residential blocks submitted in the Bulgarian Development Bank projects to be renovated and their housing blocks, but are silent, and they were by all rules. He's been quiet for three years and there's no answer for these people. The ruling coalition is very much silent about what we do with the people who have been mobilizing their expectations. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, we have made a proposal to increase the funds for the Ministry, it directs modern policies, modernization of Bulgaria, but it should not be in awe of other ministries.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u94	That's what I'm done with, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw your attention to Smolyan region only on wheels. There are two roads that need to be upgraded and added to the project........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I want them on the Minister's list for rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u95	Thank you, too. Are there any lines? I can't see. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Imam": "Imam"]] I already asked. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Raise your hand on time, please. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u96	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mrs. Yankova, this year's budget is precisely in the policy area of maintaining, modernizing and building technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources, reduced by 83 million. lv. About last year's budget. I just want to draw attention to what technical infrastructure is, that is, its regulatory definition. Technical infrastructure, colleagues, is a system of buildings, facilities or its engineering networks of transport, water supply, sewerage, heat supply, electronic communications and geodefense activity. This is really the definition of technical infrastructure. We are all aware of the lack of funding for the Republican road network. That is why the proposal we are generating is the money from the toll system or these so-called 400 million. lv. to go to rehab, to go to the Regional Ministry, so that they can be distributed evenly among the municipalities. In the water crisis in the context of what is happening in Pernik and in other district cities, I think it is extremely necessary to devote even more money and finance as soon as possible. So, Mrs. Yankova, it is nice to perhaps pay attention to these two sectors and policies, which in this year's budget are not sufficiently affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You are right, colleague, really reduced funds and this means that the Ministry cannot make policy targets. And not just what you say about the Republican road infrastructure and the water crisis programme. We have very little money in this budget, about 16 million. lv. for the programme "Industry". The Minister shared in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management more than 300 are the settlements that are under the regime, small. With these funds, problems can be solved in about 20. 30 settlements, and in the rest people will remain to receive a poor water service because the water operators do not have that kind of money. It is no coincidence that we are proposing an increase and here it is good for the ruling coalition to see another issue with the money from the "Regions in growth" and the Operational Program "Environment" and the Rural Program does not have funds for the supply and sewerage of small settlements. It is high time to form a fund to solve these problems. Water operators are now equipped to make large water projects, and they do not have the resources to invest in small settlements. We meant that and commented on it in art. 1 when it came to the money related to the policies that the Ministry must implement. And many more policies that are on geodefense, on disasters and accidents, on which the minister should react. And he is actually in a courteous position to draw the attention of the Council of Ministers and the clumsy procedure of the ministry in ministry, and I do not know at the moment whether you notice how thin one minister passed on to the other, and then the other to the second... These are things that Bulgarian citizens do not want. They want a clean policy, a clear responsibility, and we want to help you see these issues and aim them, but apparently the budget is conservatively rewritten and, unfortunately, capital expenditure is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Colleagues, we'll continue with the speeches later. Now, one message: An exhibition will be opened at the Club of the National Representative with a demonstration of the ikebana and implementation of the traditional instrument. The initiative belongs to the Chairman of the Friendship Group Bulgaria "Japan," Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. This will mark 110 years from the establishment of the contacts between Bulgaria and Japan, 80 years from the establishment of diplomatic relations and 60 years from their recovery, which are turning this year. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. In the Northern lobby is presented an exhibition of Denitsa Gatsinska, a journalist and artist. Thirty minutes of interruption. We will continue after that with the debates. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u100	Colleagues, until everyone gets in, I'll read you the parliamentary control message. Communication for parliamentary control of personal change in the Council of Ministers: In connection with a personal change to the Council of Ministers, voted by the National Assembly on 3 December 2019, the unanswered questions asked to the liberated Minister Biser Petkov, the MPs will receive corresponding oral and written answers from the newly elected Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva. Under the parliamentary practice of the newly elected Minister of Labour and Social Policy, time will be provided to get acquainted with the questions asked, to prepare or update the answers already drawn up, to shape them according to their views and to plan their participation in the plenary session for parliamentary control on 13 December 2019, Friday. Communication on the parliamentary control of 6 December 2019 on Friday. Debates on the inquiry by the National Representative Anton Kutev to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov on the policies of the government to guarantee freedom of speech in Bulgaria. Questions and Questions Answered: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova will answer one question from the MP Teodora Halacheva. 2. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov. 3. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev; Anastas Popdimitrov; and Georgi Stoilov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev. 4. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer a question from the MPs Cornelia Nino, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Valentinov and Tasco Ermenkov. 5. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva; and Dimitar Danchev. 6. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Elena Pesheva; and Stanislav Stoyanov. 7. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer three questions from the MPs Anton Kutev; Christian Vigenin; and Mikhail Hristov. 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Georgi Gokov; and Slavcho Atanasov and one question from the MP Dora Yankova. 9. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; Georgi Stoilov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; Nadia Klisurska; and Mikhail Hristov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov at one request from the MPs Desislav Chukolov and Pavel Shopov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to two questions from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on three questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on three issues by the MPs Milko Nedyalkov - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Yordanov. Honourable Members, we shall continue with the debates under art. 22. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, there is hardly a ministry, for which, when discussing the state budget, the expenditures provided for in the Republican budget are sufficient. This is the case, of course, with the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the money to go, as the delegated activities from the state to the municipalities, the maintenance, the construction of a new Republican road network. Municipal infrastructure is an important, significant problem which, of course, does not yet have its 100% solution. In view of the comments of the National Association of Municipalities, which have given their recommendations and proposals on the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of course, there is always something to be desired. After all, the approach to consolidating the state budget is from the point of view of the possibilities that the state against revenue can provide for spending in the next 2020. Naturally, the main priorities can be identified. It is true that in each of the activities delegated by the State to the municipalities there is a significant increase in terms of the increase in wages, the social activities that municipalities must carry out, the capital costs, which are also increased by about 20 million. lv. On each of these feathers there is an increase, but in any case we have to look at the overall picture and priorities that we have set for next 2020. You know, one of the most basic and essential costs to be incurred is the continuation of the construction of the highway, for which the State has already provided its funding. More than 308 million are planned for the following year. BGN, if I am not mistaken the memory, which are for the construction and completion of the highway of Hemus. Naturally, for the Council of Ministers, a major other priority is the completion of the Botevgrad road, for which the state and rather the Council of Ministers have adopted a decision allowing for the cost of the construction of these sections, of these few lots, which are to be built. In relation to what BSP colleagues mentioned earlier, for the landslides, yes, less money than last year, those 140, which were foreseen for 2019, were reduced by about 70 million. BGN, but at the expense of this as commitments, the state, respectively the Council of Ministers, has borne costs by 2020, the next two or three years in which 74 such landslides are also designated, which urgently need to be strengthened on the Republican network. These 74 landslides are financially secured, of course, from future revenue from the toll system, so that it is in the next two years that they can be renovated. It was also about the completion and entry into service of the so-called tol system. Of course, the comment was in terms of why the money did not go directly into the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works? It makes sense not to be so, as we are talking about incomes that are of predictable value, because you really know that at the moment these rates that have to pay heavy goods cars have not yet entered into force. Maybe it's a little more conservative the revenue that's predicted next year. I believe he will outperform the 450 million. lv. and this revenue will go to precisely the construction of these 74 landslides, the maintenance of the Republican network, the completion and payment to the company that implements the completion of the electronic charging system. So I think those priorities that I have already mentioned are the most important ones and we should really look at the picture at the macro level. I believe that those 1 billion and 200 million, which we were just reminded of, that I spoke to protect the entry of the electronic system, will be reached. Naturally, there is perhaps a transitional year ahead, as the electronic system will now start working with real revenue as of March. So I believe that this money, which is planned, albeit more conservative, will go beyond that 450 million and, along with the wineries, will reach 700 million a year, which is not small at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? You have the floor, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u103	Dear Mr. Hristov, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! Dear Alexander Nenkov, we are not debating the funds for the municipalities now because the Regional Ministry is the policies related to the state infrastructure. They are undoubtedly in the territory of the municipalities. Yes, the municipalities have an increase, as you say, but this increase is for the Fund "Work pay" of teachers and the 10% increase for the salaries of the administration. That is to say, for the next 2020, for municipalities capital was only increased by 20 million. But the big question is about the toll system. Let us not deceive the Bulgarian citizens, as you did in the adoption of the laws on the toll system, then in the Budget Committee you talked about revenue of 1 billion and 200 million, but if the system is introduced toll on the entire state road network. The government has taken many steps back, by the way, it dances with the toll system. As far as I know from the public information, at the moment, this fee is intended to be collected at 6,000. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. I followed the debate. The Minister of Regional Development insisted on 8,000. km road network, the Minister of Transport for 6, and as far as I know it will remain 6,000. km. But the Bulgarian state paid international consultants to make a toll system on the entire state network, which is 19 thousand. km, and we know that especially third-class roads are not in good condition and at first reading of the Toll System Bill, we insisted that the third-class road network should be dropped. You didn't agree then, you put your dreams into a room that might come true after another government. It takes a lot of money for the public roads. After 2021, the European Union will not allocate resources to them. So, as soon as you can sit down and get along with the carriers and other players associated with the toll system, what will be the fees they will pay for it to be introduced as of 1 March, because I have concerns that you will not be ready again. That's my cue to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u104	Thank you. Is there a second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Yankova, I strongly agree with you. The reform in the road sector, the mode of operation and the collection of revenue is not only the subject of this government, it will be the subject of the next governments Not only the consultants, but also the contractor company has a commitment to put all 12,000 into operation. That's what the contract is for, and they'll do it. Of course, it is now a matter of negotiation and a question of seeking some kind of compromise and balance between the state and the transport companies that will operate on this network. And I believe that if we start now, for example, with 6,000. km of Republican network and a certain rate, in time it will be changed and covered by all 12 thousand, as I believe that perhaps in the future the price will be increased. But we are currently in a situation of total reversal of the model of financing of the road sector, respectively this is a reform that requires more patience, more compromises from both sides. You see that the carriers, of course, whatever rate you put on them, will always be dissatisfied with that is clear to everyone. Therefore, in my opinion, we must really approach a balanced, at a lower pace in order to reach this money. This money is not GERB's, it is not the current government, it is the money of the state that will go only for the improvement of the Republican network and then to that part of them to go, or rather the municipalities to benefit from the completion of this system and its expansion so that the municipal infrastructure is covered by the toll system so that the municipalities can reach the wishes of the municipalities for renovated, not less like kilometers, municipal road network. So we're in a transitional year. It is important for us to start as well as possible, seamlessly as possible, the electronic system, to see its pros and cons, to move towards becoming more and more expanded and more revenue coming for the state, to be able to perform its functions and drive a good road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. We continue with the speeches. There aren't any. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 183 MPs: for 80, against 51, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova. Vote 176 MPs: 79, against 31, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 22, supported by the Commission. Vote 183 MPs: 108 against 75 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u107	Mr. President, before I go any further, I ask you to put to the vote in this House Mrs. Virginia Krasteva to be admitted to Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u108	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 172 MPs: 159 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u109	Under art. 23 there is a proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) In Section II, expenditures: - in line two. The cost of the number?203,620,9? is replaced by.238 620,9?. - on line one. Current expenditures the number s. s. 195 863.9s. is replaced by s. 205 863.9s. - in row 1.1. The number of staff is synchronously replaced by synchronously replaced by synchronous. - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number "7757,0" is replaced by "22,757,0" is replaced by "757,0." - in row 2.1 Acquisition of fixed assets and major repair the number (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. Budgetary relations (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) A new row shall be created 4: "4." National laboratory for control of the epizoolotic environment with 6 branches 35 000.0. b) current row 4 becomes row 5. c) on line All the number....203, 620.9.. is replaced by..238 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 in Section II lv. is replaced by the number lv. 1.1 C. 1.1. the number s. 118 106.8 thousand. Bv. "supposed to be replaced by "supplied" by "supplied" by "supplied" and "supplied" by "supplied" by "supplied" and "supplied" by" "supplied by" "supplied by" and "supplied by" 1.2 C. 1.2.1 the number..19 000,0 thousand. lv. is replaced by.21 000,0 thousand. lv. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) " (in Bulgarian) " (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in Bulgarian) (in 2.1 C. 1 number..93 770.5 thousand. lv. is replaced by the number lv. 2.2 C. 2.1.1. the number..27 985.7 thousand. lv. is replaced by the number..30 985,7...................... 30 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) Adopt the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2020 as follows: (by table according to the report). (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (by table according to the report). (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2020 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2020 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, as follows: (by table according to the report). (4) Confirms funds of 19,000,0 thousand. lv. for the provision of a public service to protect against the harmful effects of the waters entrusted to the Irrigation Systems (IEDs) which are within the current costs under para. 1 and cannot be redirected for other purposes. (5) Confirms funds of 1 927,8 thousand. lv. to ensure the implementation of the activities of the Executive Agency, the Certification Audit of European Agricultural Funds Funds, which are within the framework of the expenditure under para. 1 and cannot be redirected for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u110	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can't help but think about the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. At the very least, what happens in 2019 in the Ministry and its executive agencies, and what is coming with the adoption of the new budget will not be any different. The Ministry ends 2019 with deficits. These deficits are both in terms of salaries and their low level in certain executive agencies and in terms of costs which are incurred which cannot be covered accordingly. We are talking about the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; we are talking about the Agricultural Academy, where there is a good chance that wages will not be paid. Problems that are not reflected and are not seen in the new budget as a correction. We have taken the trouble of analyzing each of the agencies in the Ministry's composition, its state, and we have asked questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. I must tell you that the situation is extremely severe. I am starting with the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, along with the scandals related to the African plague, incinerators, escalators and so on, we forgot as if the people who are working and the problems they have. Yesterday you know there was a protest of the employees of the Agency. What's this about? First, low wages. These are people who work in the field, but the average salary at the Agency is BGN 860. It hasn't changed in years. It follows that the Agency has staff turnover, the Agency cannot fulfil its duties not only because of low wages, but also because of the lack of opportunities for laboratories to operate normally. In the Food Agency there are constantly public procurements for the implementation of a state preventive programme, for consumables for laboratories, they are therefore falling due to an appeal. In the end, it is so that the laboratories of the Food Agency are not able to purchase supplies, but private laboratories are paid for services that are much more expensive and burden the budget of the agency itself. The proposal we are making for the 2020 budget. The first and main commitment and attention: really the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to work in a way that every Bulgarian citizen wants. Because each of you is a consumer, each of you is a consumer of food products, and in order for this to happen, i.e. to have safe food, it is necessary to have control bodies to manage to do their job. You know that in this Agency, in addition to animal health, and the associated severe situations with the epizootic situation, there are inspectors responsible for the safety and control of food throughout the chain. The situation in the Executive Agency is no easier. There is no reform there. In the middle of 2019 the average salary is BGN 608. It is true that there is no consensus on how and in what way to continue the reform of the Agency. However, we rely on the Agency to carry out its duties and those in its composition to be able to carry out these duties for a decent fee. What we are proposing is an increase in the Ministry's budget by 25 million. BGN, with an increase in the fund of work. I thank you for the proposal that has been made to increase wage funds from 118 to 128 million. BGN, but the issue will not be solved with the payment and imbalances in the Ministry itself. In addition, we also propose a correction of the current expenditures - priority, above all, for the creation of working conditions for the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. When there was a budget debate last year, I remember that in this debate it was said: the capital expenditure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will go to the Food Agency. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Now they're down from 7 to 3 million, and it's still not gonna happen. We appeal when the budgets are made, to be real and to really meet the needs it has to perform control functions. We are all affected if these control functions are not performed properly. This is also related to the European funds for which the control requirements for our country and the agencies how they must meet the legal requirements are high, but there is absolutely no change in the budget, except for the things relating to a 10% routine increase in wages, which is in all sectors of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, again, as in the budgets so far, we notice insufficient funds for the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, for the needs of farmers, insufficient funds for agriculture, which is of national importance to our country. As familiar as this may sound, I will tell you again: chronic failure to finance several sectors in agriculture.. these are the Agency for the Fight against hails, the Food Agency, the Irrigation Systems, the Agricultural Academy. With a few sentences, I'll tell you the problems about them. The problems with the Agency for the Fight against Cities and Financing are another fact. This is due to a partial extension of its scope and the funds for it are at the old levels. The Agricultural Academy. You believe that by granting her autonomy, the matter is resolved. No, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's no improvement in employee pay, it's no improvement in business performance, it's no improvement on the material and technical basis. The Food Agency. What's going on over there? A few million for labs, so what? A disease after a disease surprises us and the business sector again suffers dramatically. And as always, we react to fire. "Irrigation systems." With the several million provided for the "Irrigation systems" none of their main problems are solved. The company's policy is not solved with the increase of the flood areas, reconstruction of the sewer network. The problems at the Agency for the Fight against Cities and Financing, as I mentioned, are indeed serious. It is clear from the budget that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will not be able to carry out the ambitious tasks, as well as the commitments made to the Ministry's employees and farmers that it sets out. In the current 2019, the problems have been resolved through temporary additional funding provided in the course of the implementation of the budget. For the next year, the 2020 framework you are proposing, the option for solving the problems will clearly be sought on the move. In this regard, we have made proposals for an increase in funds for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and we hope that you will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Abase, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! After reading so quickly the budget for the Ministry of Agriculture by Mrs. Stoyanova, I would like to translate this tape for you. In short, nothing new at the Ministry. The same budget as last year's budget, which is being repeated, and we expect to have new measures and new reforms. What is being proposed is an internal transformation of some 10 million. lv. in order to increase wages in the sector. But I have to tell you that this 10 million has been pre-spent and it will hardly come to a real increase in wages in the sector, because they will go to shut down some old holes. The money has already been spent. At the risk of repeating myself with BSP colleagues, I cannot say anything different, there are several chronically underfunded sectors as every year. These are: non-financing in the food sector, the Agency for the Fight against hails, the Agricultural Academy and the Irrigation Systems. In particular, our proposal is to increase the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture by 20 million. In particular: 15 million to increase wages in the sector in order to have a real 15% increase in salaries of employees in the Ministry; 3 million for the Agricultural Academy and 2 million for the Irrigation Systems. lv. Traditionally underfunded sectors, honourable Members, are a great risk to the Bulgarian society, starting from the Food Agency recently there was a strike by the Agency employees, they are on strike because of the low wages. In the 21st century, a veterinarian can't have a salary of BGN 800. and to be given commitments to prevent all Bulgarian citizens from being offered safe food. There are whole regions with unoccupied areas for precinct veterinarians. The work of the field with the epizoots of the veterinarians is not paid for the extra hours when they were there. You say: yes, 2018 priority will be the laboratories. So what if we have $2 million more for labs, and for the same, we didn't provide $30,000. lv. For supplies and for diagnostics, as a result of which the labs are still standing and doing nothing?! It's the hail control agency. Seeing how the Agency's budget is being formed, I feel like it's going to stay the same way, and that doesn't correspond to the new ideas for a new law to combat hails. It will continue to work in the form of an agency, and to provide a service - protection against hails. The Agricultural Academy. So what if he has an autonomous budget? The people of the Agricultural Academy continue to have minimal salaries and continue to be unable to maintain the old technique... the old material base they had left from the old days. We are also proposing an increase in resource for "Irrigation systems" because the funds that are intended to protect against the harmful effects of water, honourable Members, are the same as last year. Some happy coincidence that last year there wasn't so much rain and flood, but that doesn't mean there isn't going to be one this year. So this resource, which is offered, which is like last year, is extremely needed to ensure the smooth existence of.Irritative systems and to protect the health and life of the people who are around these places, we need to have an increase in funds for this direction. With these proposals, I think we will provide a good year for the Ministry of Agriculture, asking the government to suppress their political correctness and vote for our proposal, which will ensure a more peaceful existence of the Ministry and the implementation of policies in the sector without disruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As a country rich in agricultural land, fertile soils and various agro-climatic conditions, Bulgaria has huge agricultural potential, which unfortunately today is not the effective productive sector in the Bulgarian economy. My colleagues told me that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for this year is almost the same as last year. This means that the Management Programme of the Government of GERB and the Government of the United Kingdom will not be implemented for 2017 in Chapter fourteenth "Agriculture, Food, Fisheries and Forests" priority 41 "Sustainable, competitive and market-oriented agriculture" because there is talk of creating optimal conditions for the development of efficient water farming, colleagues before me have spoken about under-financing in "Irrigation systems" there is also talk about fighting hails, the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails is under-funded, the Agriculture Academy, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I mean, we have more of the same again. Dear colleagues, the economic effect as a major stimulus of the economy is measured as an added value produced by national businesses. The other indicator, which is important for the economic development of the country, is the level of employment at the different levels of absorption of Bulgaria's potential to produce raw materials for food and end-food products with different levels of added value along the raw material chain. For example, when grain is processed inside the country, it creates the relevant employment in the sectors related to the production of flour, feed and so on. If these products serve to produce other products along the chain, they also create added value and employment. Unfortunately, the budget on these issues will not solve these two important indicators of added value and employment. And here, if last week the Ministry was able to see that we're second in exports of sunflower, we're eighth in exports to the world of rape, we're 11th in export of wheat and corn. What does that say? It says that we export a primary product without added value, at the same time the food security of Bulgaria is threatened because it is considered that if more than one fifth of the food that the population mainly consumes is from imports, the country is on food dependence. You know according to statistics that most of the food products are from 25% up, with beef is 67 " 72%," now because of African plague and pork, that is, Bulgaria is in food dependence, which is also part of national security. This has to do with other health policy policies, as when we import artificial milk from Poland, Greece and produce milk, this threatens the health status, as the Food Safety Agency cannot control from food chain production to shops. I have once said from this tribune that when we export the primary product, the state loses added value because, if we produce wheat flour twice is the added value, the feed goes up three times if we produce animals six times, meats and meat products nine times, and if it goes to the tourist's plate, it is already 20 times added value. The effect of specializing in the production of highly profitable, highly mechanized and with rapid export performance results in concentration of production in large businesses, catastrophic reduction of employment in production territories, targeting the positive effects of production to the commercial sector. The economic effect of these processes is measured by a strong decrease in added value in the sector of Agriculture and Food Industry. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u118	Time already!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u119	The end result of all this is a reduction in gross domestic product produced in the sector, a sharp decline in the number of jobs, degradation in rural areas. Therefore, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will not support the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u120	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u121	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Today we are commenting on the Budget Act of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, in which all groups have proposed its increase. The reason is the understanding that it is insufficient and cannot provide funds to implement not only the operational but also the control activities of the Ministry. Proposals have been made to increase funds for the Fund "Work pay" and contributions, proposals that should increase the wage funds of all the agencies and structures that my colleagues shared. Of course, I will share them with you and these are the Agency for Fight against hails, where the minimum wage is just over 600 BGN.; in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the Agricultural Academy, an average wage of just over BGN 800.; in the Regional Directorates of Agriculture and Forests and their subservient municipal services.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, steps are envisaged in the direction of raising the Fund, but this is not enough for the functions that these institutions perform. I would like to address another topic and it is related to the capital expenditures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and to remind you that when the budget for 2018 was adopted, funds were provided for accredited laboratories at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, laboratories with which we would have a real opportunity for timely diagnostics of the sector concerned. Such we have observed several times in the past year, I mean diseases such as the plague of small ruminants and swine fever. Now that there is some endangered business sector, we are seeking assistance from other countries, for example France, because we do not have accredited laboratories and we cannot obtain reliable and timely information. In 2018, there were funds, but this did not happen. In 2019 it also did not happen, it is not in the 2020 budget. With these actions we are endangering the food security of the country and we cannot guarantee the health of Bulgarian consumers in the absence of such laboratories. That is precisely why we have made a proposal in the part "Capital costs" to increase the budget by 15 million. BGN, so that we do not have to face difficulties and I hope you will support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 183 MPs: 80, against 54, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the next proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi, which the Commission does not support. Vote 179 MPs: for 71, against 62, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 23 on the Commission report. Vote 187 MPs: 108 against 78, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u123	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I, as a veterinarian, find it unacceptable to pay between BGN 800 and BGN 900. to be for a veterinarian who is on the field is normal is three minimum wages. That is why I voted against. There are also legislative and structural changes in the Bulgarian Food Agency. Here, in this budget, I did not see such a thing, nor are the funds at stake, which will be provided so that these changes can be made so that the system can function normally, so I voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Moving on to the next term.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u125	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u126	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 24, supported by the Commission. Vote 184 MPs: 107 against 76, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u127	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) In Section II, expenditures: - in line two. The cost of the number....82 260,0.. is replaced by..85 260,0. - on line one. Operating costs the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssandsands. - in row 1.1. The number of staff is.15 011,1..18 (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. Sports policy for students and sports in leisure time the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u128	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ministers are probably on their lunch break.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u130	They'll be here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u131	By the way, yesterday I could not understand this stubbornness, which our colleagues in the ruling majority did yesterday with regard to such an important policy which concerns the health of Bulgarian children "health through sport." Some funds had to be voted in implementation of Decree No 129, which allowed every child, every school, every kindergarten to benefit directly from these funds. We all know the alarming statistics that relate to adolescents, children and young people in terms of their physical status. Today we are looking at the Ministry's budget and yesterday it was about its underfinancing in terms of sport for all the sports among young people, sports among students and sports among adolescents. Even the increased funds here are saying that the entire budget of the Ministry has been increased by nearly 5%, but they are referring rather to the increase of funds related to the increase of the minimum wage and the Fund. As a structure in the budget 70% are devoted to sport for excellence and only 30% for sport for students and sports for all, and in sports for students also includes funding for sports schools. Or if we say that the budget is 83 million, then only 5 million is allocated to the entire country for sport for children and students. Only 5 million or that's less than 10%! It is extremely insufficient to finance this important policy that the Ministry has to implement. Because yesterday I showed you the justification of the budget, which means the justification in policies, one of the main objectives of the budget of the Ministry is precisely the overall reform for the Bulgarian sport. In these numbers and in the policies presented by the Ministry, we see no reform, as the numbers are repeated every year when they concern sport for everyone. The numbers have not been changed in the next 10 years in terms of these important policies, which I say are related to adolescents. That is why we include as additional funds 3 million to be for the remuneration of coaches and qualified persons to provide the opportunity for sports, training activities of all children in the leisure of sports facilities throughout the country. You know very well that in small municipalities there are built stadiums, built sports halls. However, there are no sports specialists there and there is no possibility to finance sports professionals, qualified experts to organize children in leisure time. We through these funds give each municipality the opportunity to apply and finance the remuneration for all those qualified instructors, coaches and specialists who can organize in the leisure of sports facilities our children in sports, sports activities, physical activity and so important and necessary, which concerns the physical status of our children. It was just a moment ago that the education budget was also heard about the programs that education allows to apply for sport, but this is already about creative skills, educational skills that do not correspond to the physical and mental fitness of Bulgarian children. Let us think on this day and vote 3 million for our children and for the health of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Mr. Ali, come in. Then Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We in the DPS parliamentary group support the proposal under art. 25 in the draft budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on sport policy for students and sports in the free time to increase the estimated 18 million. 666 thousand. 500 leva. with the sum of 3 million. BGN, and we believe that this amount, honourable colleagues, is a chance and another opportunity especially for children and young people in small municipalities and villages to develop an active sport. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have surveillance with regard to the Sports Program in leisure time. We are of the opinion that yes, some money is given to sports clubs on the ground, with less than a quarter of the applicants getting approval under this programme. In one year, the winning club in most cases receives an average of about 3 000. BGN, and with infinitely many requirements, unfortunately. I think that money is insultingly small for people who work nonstop with children for a year, and therefore the effect is almost zero. Dear colleagues, you all know that everywhere, especially in small municipalities, sports clubs and sports groups collect fees from children to collect fees from the coach or licensed sports person and thus form their remuneration. The idea here, honourable Members, is for municipalities to have the opportunity to apply for funding to provide remuneration in the form of fees for qualified sports professionals. We believe that this is yet another opportunity especially for small municipalities, a way to make sport accessible to all children, as I said, in small municipalities and small towns. In this way the parents will not be burdened with payment of fees, there will be no separation of the children who can pay the fee and which child cannot pay the fee. We of the DPS parliamentary group believe that municipalities will thus ensure quality activities under the leadership of no accident people, but of professionals in the field of sport. That is why the DPS parliamentary group will support the proposal to increase the estimated 18 million. Eight hundred and 500 leva. with the sum of 3 million. lv. under art. 25 in the draft budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on sport policy for students and sports in leisure time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ali, thank your parliamentary group for your position. In fact, it must be clear to the House that this 3 million. lv. help a group of people, firstly, to develop their activities, which are constantly told that there is no money in small municipalities. These will be qualified individuals who will also take care of children who exercise without paying fees, as, by applying for this program, there will be a triple effect. Of course, and the municipality will have money, there will be money for qualified specialists, children will sports for free at municipal stadiums, halls and playgrounds. So here, in this proposal, you can best see the social function of sport. Moreover, in private playgrounds or those on concession, renting, the hours that are provided for free sports by children in different municipalities are awkward, to put it mildly, for children. In many cases, even after 10:00 p.m., these playgrounds and terrains are provided, which, of course, we all know, there is no way for children at this time of the day to use these places for sports. Therefore, I believe that this proposal is quite positive in the direction of children three times a week to engage in sports, to have a qualified person, to call him an instructor, to call him a specialist or even a trainer, who not only unlocks the stadium, playground or hall, but also to supervise the children. God forbid, if anything happens to an accident and an injury, there should be someone there who can react immediately. At the same time, with these three hours that he will seal and conduct the activities of children or even training, in one month of three hours a week he will be able to generate a reward which otherwise the municipality cannot pay him. In this way we will engage the Bulgarian specialists, who are currently not engaged in activities they have studied and specialized in. I therefore believe that this is a perfectly normal proposal. Moreover, here in this Chamber for two days now you see how we are talking about millions, we are talking about billions in the state budget. I think 3 million. lv. for the development of Bulgarian children, at least for the protection of their health, are a small amount that we can all provide them with. Thank you for your attention and I hope you understand from all groups, as they did from the DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Manev, come in for a statement. Will there be any other speeches, colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! We've been talking for two days about these famous three million and something. We've been talking for two days about things that sound great from this tribune about how kids in free time, in playgrounds where they are, and some coaches, and some money from these coaches. The truth is very prosaic, colleagues. There's a law on sports. It's a brand-new one. In it we assigned the development of sport, all types of sport, including children's, schoolgirl's, in leisure time, to sports organizations, sports organisations for sport for all; sports organisations for school sport. The funding of these organizations and that money that my fellow Members appeal for has nothing to do with it. In other ways, these sports organisations are budgeted and financed. There really is the place, because in the same law that I appeal for, when we talk about sports, to read it, first, and then to talk, we have recorded clearly and precisely that all sports clubs, all sports federations administer and the work of specialists in these sports. Didn't we make there records of coaches, instructors and so on, and so on; who works where, which club, which federation exercises their activities? The activities of these people are financed through these sports organizations. How do we imagine everyone here in this room and fooling people freely or unintentionally, I'm not saying that it's intentional that we're going to make some 3 million?! Three million for sport and for children, when you say it, it sounds like: how can you not be ashamed?! What does it really mean? We take out some three million, put them into space, and someone who he is, determines which sports specialists in a municipality will receive, will participate in this whole work, who will not participate, who will not receive, who will not work with the children, like we all will, and by the way, in a very good consensus we created the Law. That is why we have introduced in this law the rules to be exactly like this: money goes to the sports organization, sports organization organizes the activities of students, sportsmen for health and so on, and so on, for workers, for special federations in the departments and its specialists there who work with these specialists, receive their funding for the work and work they have done. That was the system. This system is the only one that can honestly, without fear that there will be: this one we will give, this one we will not give, and this sport we will stimulate, this one we will not stimulate, or these classes of children we will give them an opportunity to exercise them, and these are not the protective function and the protective mechanism. Let's not strain the situation and turn to the Bulgarian citizens about things that we all have unanimous thinking and unanimity and send false and false messages to them. That's my big request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't want to strain the situation, but either we don't listen to each other or we don't know the budget we're discussing today. First of all, the three million we are discussing today has nothing to do with the three million we discussed yesterday. Yesterday we discussed a decree of the Council of Ministers, which we have recorded in the new Law on Sports, in art. 132, para. 1, which says that the Council of Ministers determines the minimum differentiated amounts of money for sport, physical activity of children in kindergartens, schools and higher education institutions. This decree has not been updated since 2006 and if today a child has two leva for sport for the whole year, our modest proposal was to update five leva for sport for the whole year, which means five leva for a student. If the school has 1,000 students with five levs, that's 5,000. lv. for a budget for sport this is a school. So, we wanted to update these numbers, which 12 years of constant reminder in the three-year discussions of budgets with your representatives in Parliament, you did not wish to read our wishes for this policy. Today we are discussing the part of the budget that concerns sport for everyone, sport for leisure. I want to show you the numbers that define this program, they have not been changed in 12 years, dear Mr. Manev. Read these numbers. The program "Sports in Free Time" is 1 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u140	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u141	...and you haven't updated it so far, which concerns Sports in leisure time..... for all children. In this program can apply all sports clubs at the personal discretion of the Minister, as in the last three years. So in lobbying you can only blame your minister, and we, by signing the programs, are willing to apply on equal terms and be able to all participate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u142	The weather, Mrs. Lecheva. Thank you. Mr. Chenchev, line two. Third line, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u143	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Lecheva, as always you shoot in the eye. I mean, here's the thing...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u144	To Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u145	...to Mr. Manev. True, we had a consensus on many of the issues, only, Mr. Manev, tell me in Bulgaria how many qualified sports specialists do not practice? Although sports organizations have to deal with it. How much? [[Heckling]] Okay, answer me, because we know there's a lot of them. Apart from that, you said from here that you were unclear how they were going to apply. Who would determine? Who would lead the work? Well, by applying for the programme, the qualified person concerned, they can be different types of sport, in small towns they do not develop twenty types of sport, as you yourself know, so we want to change it. I say again, thank you for meeting the support of the DPS, and otherwise what you're saying, we agreed, we did it, and I think it works. We believe that with this measure for this three million, as it became clear, you did not understand what we were offering them for, and that is different from yesterday's three million. Here, now answer that line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Third line, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Manev, you mentioned the new Sports Act from last year. This law, as I recall, voted lifelong monthly bonuses of certain medalists and their coaches. Would you say, because you're deeper in the world than the million-dollar state spends on these medalists, for these life-saving monthly premiums, regardless of their age? And if there are people in this room who get such monthly life benefits to declare this thing. How am I to vote three million from the budget, since just a year ago we voted much more millions to separate from the budget?! [[Noise and lines.]] Sir, it's okay if you give me a line, that's why it's this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u148	Proceed, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u149	We'll make a statement then. So let's get back to the point. We're also talking about morality here. When this tribune is about children, just about children, I was, how to tell you, confident that certain people who get this lifelong monthly bonus will at least give them for the sport in which they have received medals and will help children in sports schools. One part of them may really need these life-saving monthly bonuses, but another part that I know is not up to that money at all. At least donate them to the sport. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u151	Mrs. Chairman! Colleagues, I'll start with Mr. Velchev. I don't know exactly how many millions there are, any one of us can make a reference, right now, and we're gonna find out. On the other hand, it's a question of whether you should declare that you are receiving them, I will not call them aids, but a bonus from the Ministry is a solution to anyone who speaks from this tribune. Whether he should give it up for something or somewhere is also his decision. But let's get down to the fact that my colleagues on the left asked me questions that they knew the answer to. Let me tell you, for example, what I meant when I said how they were going to be distributed. Do you remember that Oresharski program? I can remind you of it in detail. It bothered me. Do you know who live on the yellow pavement and talk about what clubs are there in the countryside and in small rural towns, that in many rural cities there are, for example, six or five swimming clubs, six or five basketball clubs? How will you choose from these five or six clubs which coach will enter the program? Isn't this a split, and we in sports shouldn't allow separation?! Isn't that what I'm trying to tell you?! The other thing you talk about and mention many of the sports schools, the state sports schools in Bulgaria, how many are there? Six state sports schools. You think they're underfunded? [[Reply.]] Ah, ah! Why don't we end up not using at least the sport for such political divisions? Because now with the whole story of the money you want, I came here for my basic statement really with the conviction that we're going to talk about these things. You know, there are new programs in education, in each of which we have included sports. We definitely included it, with the arguments that you used just now from this tribune that our children should play sports. You know we have a program for the gifted children in which the sport remains and is funded. You know perfectly well that now after January 18th, trainers, instructors, senior coaches will be hard to find to work because after January 18th, all federations have to identify them in the Register and will not be able to find most of the sports. That's why our academy is currently working on speed, but this is another topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u152	Time, Mr. Manev. Thank you. Any other speeches, colleagues? It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go. I think I've led well, but... I imagine you'll praise me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the manner of keeping you assume from this tribune of suggestions that have nothing to do with the subject being debated. It had nothing to do with those people who deserved the remuneration, who voted the MPs who presented Bulgaria on the world podium, the Olympic podium, Mr. Velchev, had nothing to do with it. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] this topic, with the theme of the health of Bulgarian children. Madam President, you have allowed people who have not read their budgets, people who do not see that every year they repeat the same numbers, because these programs that you have signed, if we look back five years at your governments, stand with the same numbers. The Free Time Program...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u154	To me, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u155	...hasn't changed in the last five years. We just wanted to give air in this area, which concerns unsporting schools, because there is a sport of excellence. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u156	You're talking about the substance already. Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Mr. Ivanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u157	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest that you put to the vote the procedure for extending the working time until the end of point two or until the final vote on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u158	Thank you. I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Ivanov just did. Vote 169 MPs: 107 against 28, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. We're going to vote on art. 25. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 172 MPs: 75 against 45, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 25, supported by the Commission. Vote 172 MPs: 100 against 71, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u159	Dear Madam Chairman, under art. 26 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) In Section II, expenditures: - in line two. The cost of the number - on line one. Current expenditures the number....119 - Row 1.1. The number of staff is synchronous and is replaced by the number of staff members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of (b) in Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. National security protection policy, the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u160	Statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, this is where we enter the topic of Security and the Security Agencies of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is obvious that there is an increase in the funding of the security services in Bulgaria, but we at the BSP for Bulgaria and we think that in the security environment we are in, it is not enough. It is not enough for the security agencies in Bulgaria to develop their capabilities, to have technical security.. Modern, modern, with which to protect the security in the Republic of Bulgaria. That is why we have proposed this increase in the respective budgets of our security agencies, and we hope that you will support it, because at the moment, both in the Balkans and in Europe, the security environment is very dynamic, unstable and our security agencies need this funding so that the failure can be resolved as one of the problems, as I said, the development of their capabilities and their technical capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 140 MPs: 52, against 45, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 26, supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 92, 43, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 27, Art. 30 including by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 27 to 30 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u163	Statements? Mr. Nedyalkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u164	Madam President, honourable Members! I have an editorial proposal............................................................................................... Twenty-seven drop out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u165	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. First, I vote on Mr Nedyalkov's proposal. Twenty-seven drop out. Vote 141 MPs: 53, against 78, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts by importer of art. Art. 27, Art. 30 including supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 83, against 45, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I voted against it, because the so-called Commission on Files has run out, has historically exhausted its function, there is nothing in this committee, but there are 4 million. BGN, instead of giving 3 million here. lv. For the sport, for the children you didn't give away, but you gave 4 million. lv. for an absolutely pointless, content-absorbed committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mrs. Angelova, please report to Art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u168	Under art. 31 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Section II, the cost of: (a) in row II. The cost of the number..44 004,6...is replaced by.47 (b) in row 1. Current costs the number (c) of row 1.1. The number of staff is.38 748.6 " is replaced by.42 446,4 ". 2. In Section III, Budget relationships (transfers) shall: (a) in row III. The number of the budget relationships (transfers) is replaced by the number of the budget of the European Union (EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) -EU (EU) (b) in row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u169	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 146 MPs: 53, against 52, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 31, supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 99, against 47, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u170	Under art. 31 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Section II, the cost of: (a) in row II. The cost of the number (b) in row 1. Operating costs the number ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 2. In Section III, Budget relationships (transfers) shall: (a) in row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number (b) in row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u171	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 144 MPs: 52, against 61, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 32, supported by the Commission. 135 MPs voted: 94 against 41, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u172	Art. 1 (1) (a) Art. 33 to Art. 44 including by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 33 to 44 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u173	Statements? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll take the floor under art. 36, which concerns the budget of the Council for Electronic Media. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 in the column "Costs' there are 1 million. $800,000. lv. approximately, and there are 1 million incomes in the column. 200,000. BGN, which are recorded by state fees. The truth is that this text is currently illegal for at least two reasons. The first reason is that these state fees should not be entered into the Council for Electronic Media under the Law adopted in 1998, they should have entered the long-established Fund of Radio and Television and should therefore be re-assigned to the Council of Electronic Media. This is the legal situation. The second reason is that this fund has been in place for many years each year, i.e. since 1998 it has had to be gradually established and to enter into force, it is postponed by one year in the "Transitional and final provisions" of the budget. In this case, with § 1 of the "Transitional provisions" and delaying the creation of the "Radio and TV" Fund by one year, only that we did not vote on it. I mean, at the moment, this isn't even about one hour or two hours until we get from one point to the other, but one reason is that we haven't even voted on that provision, so the Fund is supposed to be working from January 1st. These funds should enter the Fund and should therefore be allocated respectively to the Council for Electronic Media. And apart from that, the very fact that the Council for Electronic Media collects this money and uses it is nowhere in the Law. This is something that happens in some financial logic that I don't know because it's about public money, and I have no idea how this has happened for years? My specific proposal is that art. Thirty-six like this has to be dropped. That money is worth $1 million. 200,000. BGN, which are provided, must enter, but must enter the Fund of Radio and TV, which was not created. Accordingly, we are doing something with you once again, which, in terms of financial logic, is nonsense, and from the point of view of the logic of media independence, is a serious problem, which I hope from tomorrow onwards, we will start to solve, because in the end, the Fund "Radio and TV" as it was designed in 1998 is something that we all need. I see that in the later provisions of the budget you will try to create working groups, to assign the Ministry to close it down. I want to tell you that this battle for the Radio and TV Fund will be quite serious. It's not gonna work with closures, at least in my opinion, so what needs to happen now is this article. Thirty-six drop out. This is my formal proposal, and now how he can become legal from now on, I honestly tell you, I don't know. The way it's written, it's outrageous. It's not the first time, every year it's done this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we will vote on Mr. Kutev's proposal. Thirty-six drop out. They voted 125 MPs: 26, against 53, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 33 to 44, including by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 94, against 29, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u176	Under art. 45 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov and a group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 45: Art. 45. (1) It shall adopt the budget of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for 2020 as follows under the attached table. (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 in functional areas as follows under the attached table. (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of the expenditure commitments that may be made in 2020 and the maximum amounts of the new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2020 by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds, as per the attached table.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u177	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 45 on the Commission report with the tables attached. They voted 124 MPs: 99, against 22, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 46 to 48 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u179	Statements? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u180	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I would like to draw attention to art. 48, which represents the subsidies of the National Radio, National Television and the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. I'm back to the topic we were talking about a little while ago, and we're gonna have to talk about it a few more times today. It is that all these subsidies, the alimony of at least two of these, i.e. the radio and television should have long been the subject of the Radio and TV Fund, which is still not working. [[Noise and lines.]] Since you've been in power since 2009, and governments before you have done so, we postpone the Fund's entry by one year each year. To be honest, so far, European practice has come up with nothing better than the way of funding through the Fund, as foreseen by the current law with the corresponding fees that should be collected. [[Noise and lines.]] The fact is that in Bulgaria this hard work and I think I know...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u181	Please keep your voice down, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u182	...why all the time is delayed the entry into force of the Fund of Radio and TV. At the same time, however, this is the only way.......Radio and TV..... that National Radio and National Television will not depend directly on the Minister of Finance......................... and will not happen what happened in the National Radio just a few months ago. The risk of direct impact is sharply reduced if the funding of these institutions goes through the Radio and TV Fund. Another point is that if we do not like the way the Fund is financed, it could be financed in another way. In other words, it can be done by means of budget funds and not necessarily by a fee, as provided for in the Law. But anyway, the entry of the Radio and TV Fund is key. Where does it lead that it doesn't work and that funding actually goes this way? In the column where we predict funds for National Television, we have estimated 70 million. BGN, which represents a small increase in the subsidy from last year. However, according to the words of the executive director of the National Television Emil Koslukov, the general obligations of the National Television are currently 70 million. lv. In other words, we provide them with a state subsidy for the year in the amount of their obligations. By the way, as far as I know, 30 million. lv. From them to the NURTS. I mean, to a company of certain people, which, as they say, we should think about: why are they monopolists? But this is another conversation that you should know more about because you voted them. If we vote on this decision here, with the numbers that are written, we will break the Law because National Television has no right to owe more than 10% of its budget, and at the moment, it with the 70 million that we vote will owe 100% of its budget. This is a direct violation of the laws of the state, which we will soon most likely vote on. I draw your attention to the fact that the traditional violations of the Law in relation to the Radio and TV Fund lead to something that ultimately brings all of us into systematic violation of the Law, first. Secondly, it leads National Television and National Radio to the same extent, let's say that through National Television is more visible now because of the obligations, to permanent commitment to executive power. Over the past few days, a bunch of people have been passing by. The head of the Reporters without borders, former US ambassadors, a bunch of people wrote about the media environment in Bulgaria. What we are voting on now, that is, a state subsidy for the National Television in the amount of their duties, is directly linked and is in the opposite direction of what these people have been talking to you for the last two months. At the moment, what you will most likely vote for, because I do not believe to persuade you here with my zealous speech, leads directly to a dependence of public media on power, on the government, which is dependent on both financial and editorial. This is exactly what puts Bulgaria in 111th place. It's not the only thing, but it's one of the main things that puts us at 111th place in freedom of speech. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer from art. 46 to 48 inclusive, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u184	Vote 131 MPs: 98 against 33 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u185	Under art. 49 there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 in the table, in row 2. For the carriage of passengers on non-costable lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other regions, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposed by MP Mustafa Karadaye and group: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 and para. 2 the following changes are made: 1.1. In para. 1 row 2. For the transport of passengers on non-costable lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other regions. lv.s is replaced by the number.30 000,0 thousand. lv. 1.2. In para. 1 row 3. National Company "Railway Infrastructure" the number "145 000,0 thousand. lv. s is replaced by the number..167 000,0 thousand. lv. 1.3. In para. 1 line lv. is replaced by the number lv. 1.4. In para. 2nd row 2 National Company Railway Infrastructure lv. is replaced by the number lv. 1.5. In para. Section II. The number of the number is.380 000,0 thousand. lv. s is replaced by the number s. 405 000,0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u186	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Here we have made several proposals, which we make in general every year in the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. For a third year in a row, our proposals are about the same as the previous ones. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49, para. 1 line 2 we offer the subsidy for the transport of passengers on non-profit lines in inland transport and transport in mountain, lowly populated, remote areas to be increased by another 5 million, because we know that these are transport schemes in small, underfunded, depopulated municipalities that need much more serious support. In the interest of correctness, there is an increase in this subsidy, but there is a need to be even more, even from what we have proposed as an increase. In order to be able to compensate for the lack of transport, not the shortage, this is a necessary measure to support municipalities in high-mountain, low-poor, remote areas. There's the number 25 million. lv. We're offering to make it 30 million. BGN, and we hope you will support it, because this is essential for the small municipalities that I mentioned. The other increase we offer is the subsidies for National Company Railway Infrastructure. There the company needs serious support to continue its investment programme with greater investment in maintaining the entire infrastructure of the railway company. We then propose that the expected revenues from the concession or the initial contribution from the concession fee to Sofia airport be distributed as we have written it: to repay some debts that weigh as a millstone and to BDZ, and to the National Railway Infrastructure Company. Here I will disprove colleagues who claim that the revenues from the concession must enter into the so-called Silver Fund and I will quote the provision of art. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System Guarantee: It does not apply to revenues from the initial concession payments and so we can safely support them. Finally, in the debate on reducing harmful emissions for another year, we say that rail transport in Bulgaria is not a priority. Now is the time to say yes, it is a priority, first because it is the most environmentally friendly, secure, and for some Bulgarian citizens this remains the only transport. I'm counting on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with speeches. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, I regret that there is no interest in the leadership of the Transport Ministry in the budget debate, but in the end, we are making the decisions. I support the proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to increase the funds in para. 1 of row II for the carriage of passengers on non-profit lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other areas. I suppose all of us, as members of parliament who visit our electoral districts, know that there are municipalities where there are no internal settlements or at least one line. The mayors have given consent in violation of another law for education, some of the people getting on the school buses, so they can go to a pharmacy, a doctor or something else that is a gross violation. In parallel, they have already started to become uncostable, especially in mountain areas and intercommunal lines. It is necessary to seek a political and management solution here. For this reason, we are proposing a greater increase because our view is also to form another policy which we debated two weeks ago with Minister Goranov for forming a fund in which municipalities can build municipal enterprises in order to have, if necessary, an inter-urban transport and then decide in internal relations whether there will be between one or another village and how these buses will be used. Yeah, the mayors play in the auctions, but when there's no interest, they're powerless to decide what else might happen. Our proposal is extremely serious. It concerns some of the problems that we need to solve and we need to look for a political and parliamentary solution on these issues. I know you won't support them today, but we are making the announcement that decisions are needed on these issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. Vote 138 MPs: 50, against 49, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Come in, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, I think you see, and now I have colleagues who have failed to vote. Please, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u192	It's a re-vote. Again we vote on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. They voted 145 MPs: 58, against 58, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 154 MPs: for 28, against 53, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 49. Vote 154 MPs: for 93, against 61, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u193	Under art. 50 has a proposal of the National Representative Kristina Sidorova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, in the Gabrovo section, in row Tryavna, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made in Pazardzhik section: 1. in row Pazardzhik, the number 2. on the line Shooter the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to Section Vidin: 1. in row Belogradchik, the number 2. on the row Battlenitsa, the number 3. on the line of the coast number 4. of row Vidin the number
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u194	Colleagues! [[People leaving the room, noise.]] There's some kind of chaos going on right now in this room. I will ask the MPs to remain silent and stop the movement. My appeal is to all groups. Continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u195	It's five o'clock. in row Gramada, the number 6. on the line of the Dim number s "676,5" in column 6 is replaced by the number "744,15." 7. of line Tower the number 8. on the row McCresh the number 9. in row Novo selo, the number of the number of the village in column 6 is replaced by the number of the village of Novo selo. 10. in row Ruzhintsi, the number "supplied' in column 6 is replaced by the number "supplied'. 11. of line Chuprene the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Krum Zarkov and Georgi Stoilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to the Ruse section: 1. of row Vetovo, the number "seven 024.6" in column 2 is replaced by "9 624, 6' and the number "synchronous" in column 6 is replaced by "synchronous" in column 6 is replaced by "synchronous" in column 6 and "synchronous" in column 6 is replaced by "synchronous" in column 6." 2. in row Ruse "80 321,5 " in column 2 is replaced by "84 821,5 " and the number 3. in line Price 3 300,7 "in column 2' is replaced by.4398,9 "and the number...380,7 "in column 6' is replaced by.148,9 ". The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov: "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Stefan Burgeev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to section Pleven: 1. in row Pleven, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50, the number..3 653 185.2 thousand. BGN is changed to "3 673 185.2 thousand." lv. The number "307 022.0 thousand." The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 75000. lv. "The number" "199" 110.2 thousand. The amount of the aid is estimated at EUR 10 million, i.e. EUR 10 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Ilieva Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 in the table, the following amendments shall be made to section Smolyan: 1. In line with the Baths, the number - for municipal roads and streets in the towns of Davidkovo, Galabovo, Banite, Dryanka, Oryahovets, Malka Arda, Vishnevo, Bosilkovo and other 2 million. lv. - to replace an internal plumbing and sewerage network in the village of Davidkovo lv. 2. In line with Borino, the number - for municipal roads and streets lv. - for research, restoration and storage of national protected cultural and historical and archaeological sites, Videnitsa peak (Göz tepe) and Eastern Tepe 2 million. lv. 3. In row Deven, the number "supplied' in column 6 is replaced by the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied'. - One million. lv. for the crossroad Trigrad, Chestnut; - Five hundred thousand. lv. for the long-distance road Michalkovo "Shurrekovo; - Five hundred thousand. lv. for capital expenditure for the MHAL "Devin" EAD. 4. In line Dospat, the number 5. In the row Zlatograd, the number - for the construction of a geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd lv. - for the supply of the village of Tsatsrovtsi and the village of Dolen, the district of Stankova mahala. lv. 6. In line with Madan, the number - Three million. lv. for the construction of the municipal roads of Varbina, Borovina and to the village of Koupen, Garbina, Kasap; - Three million. lv. for the completion of Sv. "Mladost", "Izvor" and others in Madan and neighboring villages. 7. In line with Nedelino, the number "s534,0" in column 6 is replaced by "S534,0" is replaced by "S534,0" in column 6 is replaced by "S534,0." - 2.5 million. lv. on the completion of the intercommunal road at the end of the border; - 2.5 million. lv. for the construction of municipal roads and streets. 8. In line with Rudozem, the number - Two million. lv. for the municipal roads in Rudozem, Elhovetz, Vitina, Polyana; - Five million. lv. for leading sewerage from the Elhovsko and the Chepinska trough to the treatment plant of the municipality of Rudozem; - 2.5 million. lv. Sports hall in the village of Chepintsi. 9. In row Smolyan, the number - Five million. lv. for streets and municipal roads in the settlements in Smolyan municipality; - Four million. lv. on the completion of the streets in the town of Smolyan Asen Vassilev and others; - 2.5 million. lv. repair, reconstruction and modernization of the old stadium in Smolyan. 10. In line Chepelare, the number - for streets and municipal roads in the villages of Hvoyna, Pavelsko, Zornitsa, Malevo and Orehovo; - for alienating the terrain for the ring road of the town of Chepelare 600 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u196	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, my fellow Member Georgi Stoilov and my fellow Member, the proposals concern Ruse region and concern several settlements. First of all, the municipality of Vetovo. The total amount, which we believe must be granted in addition to the municipality of Vetovo, is 2 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. The funds are essential for improving the state of the street network, the sidewalks, including the depreciated water supply network. In this sense, it is important to know that there is already an investment project commissioned and processed, which is in a technical phase and which needs to be financially secured. That's what $800,000 goes into it. BGN, which should be used for major repairs of two Chitalishtes: Chitalishte "New Life 1894 " in the town of Senovo and Chitalishte "Prosveta 1910" in the town of Glodzhevo. Especially in the latter is extremely necessary quick repair to be able to once again become a centre of culture in this municipality. An additional 276 thousand is also needed. lv. for the municipality of Tsenovo and more precisely for the maintenance and repair of the roof of the Historical Museum in the village of Nova city. This money, if it does not relax, this museum, which is made with great effort and the exposition that is in it, will simply be destroyed in the coming months. In the same municipality, 822 thousand are also needed. lv. for the construction of a training center for requalification of personnel in the municipality territory. We are constantly talking about depopulation of the areas and we are wondering how to keep people there, but if we do not do what is necessary to match the people who work there to the needs of employers, this simply cannot happen and only remain empty promises. That's 800 grand. lv. will be paid back repeatedly when people remain to work in the territory of their municipality and create gross domestic product there. An additional 4.5 million should be allocated to the city of Ruse. lv. As MPs from the district and from the city of each of our reception rooms, there are at least a few people who complain about the state of the road network in the city and especially the small interblock streets whose repairs have been delayed for decades. The major boulevards, as in other cities, are trying to do, but the interblock streets remain forgotten, and there people spend most of their time. The estimated amount of 1 million. 649 thousand. lv. It's disparagingly small. We propose that it be increased by 4 million. lv. It is not possible for the situation to continue as it is. Five hundred thousand. lv. are needed to build a street channel in the district of Vazdadad, where at the moment at the end of 2019 people are forced to take their waste water to the street lane in one of the most beautiful cities, if not the most beautiful city in Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The situation is unacceptable. lv. must not be saved. We've made suggestions not lightly. We understand that there are restrictions, we understand that all municipalities have a need, but these are expenditures that should not be saved. They reflect directly on people's lives and lead to the fact that district cities such as Ruse are being depopulated and left by their residents first, to the capital, and then, unfortunately, abroad. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My suggestions are a continuation of all that we have spoken under art. 1, and the policies for municipalities, concerning the lack of funds for municipal roads, for the streets in the settlements, for the sewerage in the small settlements. I am proposing to Banite Municipality: to increase the funds by 2 million. lv. for municipal roads and streets in the towns of Davidkovo, Galabovo, Banite, Dryanka, Oryahovets, Malka Arda, Vishnevo, Bosilkovo. To replace the internal plumbing and sewerage network in the village of Davidkovo by 2.5 million. lv. There is simply no place to apply, or no place to apply, and this is a large village that has the potential to reveal tourist activity. The municipality of Borino requires 1 million. BGN, in order to replace the municipal roads and streets and parallel to this, so that the municipality as a small village can develop its tourist potential and make socio-economic development such as tourism for research, restoration and storage of the nationally protected cultural-historic and archaeological sites Videnitsa peak (Göz Tepe) and Extum Tepe 2 million. lv. For the municipality of Devin, the third largest after Smolyan municipality, it is essential to build and complete the long-distance road Trigrad. Because of the bad road the people of Trigrad have jeeps, which is from Chesten in Trigrad, and she doesn't want to go to Chesten because the road is broken and the people themselves have to go to her to be able to provide medical services, as well as to build the interurban road Michalkovo. lv. For Dospat Municipality the largest village, which is the most alive and for joy with positive growth, are born and many children are born, to repair and reconstruct the municipal road Dospat Short. For Zlatograd, I propose something that we debate many times, colleagues. In fact, the mayor, who has repeatedly asked this question about the construction of the geothermal heating system of Zlatograd, will decide the opportunities Zlatograd to acquire the Balneology Center and to use the potential of thermal water that came out of the Erma River and it cannot reach, there is no financial resource to reach Zlatograd. As again the water supply for small settlements........................................................................................................ lv. For the city of Madan to build the road Verbina.. Borovina and to the villages of Coupen, Garbina and Kasap, as well as in the city there is a need to build the streets.................................................................................. For the municipality of Nedelino to be completed the intercommunal road Krajna, which opens the municipality of Nedelino as opportunities and as tourist potential for connection with the international road, which is to Komotini. Along with this, there is an extremely great need for the construction of municipal roads and streets in Nedelino. For Rudozem and last year, and now I will repeat the municipal roads Rudozem, Elhovets, Vitina, Polyana. The project is built on a European treatment plant in Rudozem and there is no programme and there is no financial resource, the leading sewerage from the Elhovska trough and from the Chepinska trough, to be able to participate in this treatment plant. We do stillborn infrastructures, and we don't have an additional resource, or if we do sewerage, we say where to purify. In my opinion, these are complex policies that we have laid out in art. 1. Along with this for the municipality of Rudozem, the sport hall in Chepintsi is a school that is the top and is extremely large with the opportunities for a sports hall. For Smolyan, I propose, as the city is large, streets and municipal roads about what I am talking about about about the rural periphery. Along with this, it is extremely important to finance the modernization of the old stadium and to complete the streets, Professor Asen Vassilev. For the municipality of Chepelare we commented many times, it was very promising, with the new mayor's choice, to find the funds to alienate the area for the road around the town of Chepelare 600 thousand. BGN for Chepelare to reveal its potential as a resort village and for streets and municipal roads in the villages of Hvoyna, Pavelsko, Zornitsa, Malevo and Orehovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u200	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My proposal concerns an increase in the money that will be for Tryavna Municipality and, in particular, for funds for the launch of the tender procedure for the selection of a contractor and the construction of a drinking water treatment plant in Tryavna Municipality. For years there has been a water problem and during the summer months when there is drought, the inhabitants of the whole municipality of Tryavna remain on a water regime. That's what happened this year. There's a technical project, funding is expected. I just remind you that more than a year ago on my question, then Minister Nikolay Nankov said that everything is ready to build a drinking water treatment plant and to build Neykovtsi Dam, only a source of funding must be found. Because these two projects were part of an Agreement with the World Bank on the construction of water facilities in our country. For a number of reasons the dam in Tryavna, along with the treatment plant, fell down and remained, so to speak, projects of logs. I hope that the MPs will support this proposal of mine so that it will not become a municipality of Tryavna part of those municipalities, which we see at the moment that they are in a water regime for weeks as is the whole area in Pleven, and in Lovech, and especially in Pernik, and that we can truly provide the inhabitants of this wonderful Bulgarian municipality with access to a human right, namely access to water.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u202	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. I don't see any lines. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With great regret, I can say that the hall is half empty only the representatives of our group are mainly here. The other representatives of the European Union, GERB and DPS are obviously not excited about the state and budget funds for municipalities. Unfortunately for me, Bulgarian municipalities are left behind... [[Reply from OP.]] And IMRO two people.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u204	And NFSB is here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u205	Unfortunately for me, Bulgarian municipalities are placed in an unenviable position. Every year we talk about decentralisation, which remains only on paper, every year we talk about the need to provide more funds for municipalities, but this does not happen. What we see in the current budget is linked to the increased funds from the increase of the minimum wage, a symbolic means of capital investment and symbolic means of snow cleaning. Our parliamentary group has made a proposal in Transitional and Final Provisions that so-called fiscal decentralisation should happen, namely a fifth of the total income tax to remain in the municipalities and a tenth of the VAT tax from retail trade to remain in the municipalities. I hope this proposal of ours today will indeed be reasonably discussed and accepted by you, but I will now mention a few more facts. Over 120 bills impose an obligation on the Bulgarian municipalities. However, half of them do not provide financial support for those activities they carry out, so those funds that are laid down in the budget are extremely insufficient. My specific proposals relate to the funds to be allocated to Pazardzhik municipality and Strelcha municipality. One of my proposals is related to an increase in capital expenditure funds by one million leva to build the Western ring road. Which of you has passed through Pazardjik knows that all traffic on this road is passing through the central city area, which pollutes, which leads to a lot of noise and many destructions of the houses that this ring road is going through. I will say a few details about it: this is traffic that starts from Etropole, Pirdop, Panagyurishte, Pazardzhik, Peshtera, Batak and connects North with South Bulgaria. This time also passes through the so-called bridge of the Maritsa River, which the Finance Minister and I have been talking about for several years about during parliamentary control, is not treated, but is extremely compromised. These funds to build the Western Ring Road are extremely important and necessary to happen this year, so is my proposal. My other proposal is related to an increase in the capital expenditure funds of the Strelcha municipality. This is a wonderful Bulgarian resort, which is most likely forgotten by the gentlemen of the government. The road that connects Pazardzhik to Strelcha is extremely compromised. Two years ago Minister Nankov answered a parliamentary question again that it is really necessary this time to be repaired, but, unfortunately, two years later I can say that there are no funds for its repair. Every day the school bus goes down this road and everyone who has passed through it does not repeat it again. The claim of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works that the traffic there is not great and that this does not impose such investments, is a confusion in me and in the inhabitants of Strelcha municipality, because in the end more than five thousand people live in Strelcha municipality and they are left literally without absolutely no road connection with the district city. They have to go around Panagyurishte so they can move to the district city. In this regard, it is also my proposal: the means for the phased construction of this road to ultimately be provided for in the capital subsidy funds for Strelcha Municipality and to be increased by 200 thousand. lv. At least the section between the village of Smilets and the village of Dulevo to be renovated at this stage, because this is the most neural section, this is a section that can't really be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u206	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. I don't see any lines. We continue with Mr. Kirilov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wish the Minister was here, but he's not in the room right now. I will touch on a question that is fundamental, and I think it is important that it be heard. These are the rules for obtaining the municipalities for a matching subsidy. Last year, such rules were first presented and it was decided that municipalities with sufficient funds should not receive an additional matching subsidy. This is because there are really municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria that have sufficient resources to carry out all their policies, have enough funds and do not need to receive a matching subsidy, and it is still an instrument for levelling the inequalities between economically active municipalities and those who do not have such economic activity. Last year, one omission was identified in these rules and it was as follows: the formula for calculation, or more precisely the criterion, not only to include permanent tax revenues, but to include non-tax revenues. Because the requirements are: if the permanent tax revenues of one resident on 31 December 2018 are higher than 120%, no countervailing subsidies shall be paid. The next problem comes where there are municipalities that receive enough non-taxable permanent revenues, such as concessions, and at the same time receive additional countervailing subsidies. I give an example with two municipalities neighbouring in my constituency one is Zlatitsa, the other is Chelopech. Zlatitsa has enough tax revenue.. more than 120% per capita, and she does not receive a matching subsidy, although her own income is worth a million and a half leva per year. The municipality of Chelopech is a small municipality of three times less than Zlatitsa, it is only 1600 people, and receives per year concession fees of 5 million. At the same time, it receives a matching subsidy of 80 thousand. lv. I've also spoken to the mayor of Chelopech municipality. He has always said that this is not necessary, because he has sufficient resources to carry out all his policies, but must and receives them by law. Of course, it will not return them to the budget, but will use them to enrich its living environment and the municipality it represents. I've also spoken to the Minister and he said that in this budget this inaccuracies will change, but I see that we will again vote on this rule. I think it is wrong, I think that the allocation of funds should be fairer, and I think that if not this year, at least the next one should be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u208	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There are no lines. Mr. Burgeev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Pleven is the seventh largest district town in Bulgaria. It is an important geographic, demographic and economic centre in Northern Bulgaria. One of the painful problems in recent decades is the poor and lacking modern and sports infrastructure. We're about to be famous for two started and unbuilt sports halls. In this regard, it is the proposal that I have made under art. 50 of the State Budget Act concerning the relationship between the state and municipalities. My specific proposal is in the part of the municipality of Pleven, column "Capital expenses" to be completed with eight million levs. The reasons for my proposal are as follows: the above proposal is a result of BSP's long-standing and consistent policy in the region on the subject. In 2013 the government granted nearly 2 million in 2014 lv. for tearing down the old coloring, excavation activities and completion of the site to a zero-cycle stage, as the first step of building a multifunctional sports hall with a capacity of 3200 seats. Since then, the project has appeared as a topic in various public, civic and political discussions conducted according to materials in some media with meetings between the local and central authorities, and then there have been vague commitments and transfer of responsibility between the institutions. The only concrete and clear documents that provide clarity on the development of this project from public information show that the contractor for the construction of the site up to zero cycle, the so-called Phase 1, has been paid 1 million. Nine hundred and seventy-three thousand. lv. for designing and carrying out construction works. For the completion of the hall are made quantitative accounts, the value accounts are to be awarded according to the data of specialists and experts. The sum of 8 million would be sufficient. In the past local elections, the topic of the sports hall was one of the leading ones. All serious major political parties and their candidates declared their readiness to work in this direction and their awareness of the huge need for such a facility. With a population of over 90 thousand. people are sports schools and their coaches with many years of experience and traditions, gave many successful athletes of Bulgaria a reason for pride and an example for generations of Bulgarian citizens. Our city deserves this facility also in a longer and more serious commitment to developing sport and repairing existing and building new sports facilities by the state. Against the backdrop of the multi-billion-dollar budget allocated without a clear plan to suppress social and political tensions in the country, this money would be a serious and long-term investment with great added value for both the region and the state. I call, first of all, on my fellow Members from the region to show with their vote in a case that they support this sensible and important proposal for Pleven, as well as the other Members in this House that I see are not quite enough, but I hope that they will return to this House during the vote. Let Bulgaria one day enjoy the next Teresa Marinova, Detelin Dalakliev, Tihomir Ivanov and others, and we, colleagues, should be proud of our stately and responsible behavior and our contribution to this case. Once again, I appeal for your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u210	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Topchiev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal with colleague Philip Popov is caused by the fact that municipalities in Vidin district are chronically underfunded. As we all know, there is the poorest area in Bulgaria and in Europe. The demographic disaster is in full size and municipalities cannot cover the costs with their own revenues. Therefore, we have made a proposal to increase the target capital subsidy by 10%. This will enable the mayors of all municipalities to enrich the settlements in which people live to feel better, to have the opportunity to stay in the settlements, because, as we all know, there is money, but the GERB party distributes them against its own and ours and not through the budget, as is legal and proper. That is why we made this proposal for absolutely all municipalities in Vidin municipality. It's not a big amount of money under half a million is for the whole area, so I hope you all will support our proposal so that the mayors can have the opportunity to do something and stay in the municipalities. Thank you and I hope you will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u212	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will talk on all these proposals for municipalities, which are made by different MPs, no matter which political party it is from, because these proposals concern improving people's lives, improving the infrastructure in small towns, villages, smaller municipalities in Bulgaria, in which the state has been somewhat absent from them for the last 30 years. Yeah, they do things. Some things are happening, but not enough to oblige the people in the Bulgarian villages, in small towns, in small municipalities. The bad news is that what all governments and all MPs have been doing over the years is to offer specific things for a particular municipality or a populated area that will happen through the state budget or through a decree of the Council of Ministers and things to be solved in a piece, provided that a large part of the Bulgarian settlements, those I refer to, are affected by common problems. Many other countries have solved these problems and have made special programmes that finance their governments in order to improve the lives of people in small towns and small municipalities. Here, even Albania has made a programme, and it is called "A hundred villages" so that the Albanian state can finance these settlements, to preserve life in them, to have normal living conditions, not to move away. What prevents us in Bulgaria and all the political forces in this Parliament and in the following parliaments from developing a common programme, fund or strategy in which every year government funds for the granting and financing of small settlements are guaranteed directly because there was talk of decentralisation. Yes, I agree, it is nice for municipalities to be able to solve problems, but the bad thing is that municipalities are governed by different political forces. [[Reply.]] No, I'm saying it's bad from the point of view of the fact that in a given settlement the mayor of the village is, for example, from one party, and the municipal mayor is from another party and he doesn't want to do anything in this village because, for example, they didn't vote for him in the municipal elections. This is, unfortunately, in the Bulgarian realities and is a fact. It is therefore nice to think and call on the Regional Ministry to develop a programme or fund, to include a large number of settlements in Bulgaria and to be financed for water supply. In other words, where there is no need to build a new plumbing, sewerage, treatment plants, and where there are old water pipelines to be financed, to be built, because in most of Bulgaria in the settlements, not only in the small ones, but also in the large ones, the water lines are old. Where there are problems with the supply of electricity, the state should finance it in the same way. It is a shame in Sofia district, for example, outside Sofia municipality there are so many villages and they waved along these villages, where there is still no electricity to them in the 21st century, not to mention plumbing or sewerage. Therefore, something needs to be developed for which to separate a large number of funds from the budget every year and to revive these settlements where there is still life, there are kindergartens, schools, streets, but are not asphalted, there are pavements, but there are documents, and they are not, there are playgrounds and gardens, but they are really gone. This problem must be solved in a complex way and this must be a state policy. I will again address the Regional Ministry and call on them: let us develop such a programme and thus direct our efforts and breathe life across Bulgaria, in these municipalities where life is still preserved, there are still people, there are jobs, there is even culture and education. If we do not allocate funds in the next 10 years, I guarantee you that 90% of these settlements will end. The only thing they'll be used for, if there is no domestic crime, is for Saturday and Sunday someone to go to the villa or go for two or three days for a walk, which is not normal. We have turned Bulgaria into a huge city of Sofia and two or three more. Everything else is over. Each of us, as a representative of the people of a region, wants, understandably, to help the relevant area that has voted for it, supported and chosen. It's normal and it's right. Everyone really has to protect him, but let's think about how to solve the problem globally, not solve the problems per piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u214	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Angelov, you're right in principle. However, while we postpone this problem with strategies because there was such a strategy as early as 2009, there were several consecutive round tables made in Montana in previous editions of the National Assembly, but so far nothing, unfortunately, is happening. There are strategies to be developed, and that's where it ends. You are very well calling the Regional Ministry, but it is not just the problem, but it is obvious that for decades now, because I have been talking since 2009, nothing is happening in the so-called strategies. Here, even in the budget, we have proposed a targeted, special fund for the Northwest, but, alas, nothing happened to this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u216	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Angelov, I also welcome you for your opinion and a proposal to find consensus to provide additional public investment for the most important public services that Bulgarian municipalities provide to their citizens. You do not even need to call on the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to commit to this issue, because if the Ministry is willing, the targeted investment programme, which concerns 175 Bulgarian municipalities, is ready. It can be adopted by the Council of Ministers, it can be financed even with this budget. Because if we accept that one of our proposals for the Northwestern Fund concerns a small part of the country, albeit extremely important, then with our other proposal for the Investment Fund, this instrument can start exactly this targeted investment programme that you are proposing. The other option is that I urge you to support it. Very soon we will debate a new tax policy that will provide additional funds for municipalities by passing on part of the income tax as their own revenues to municipalities, with which this policy can launch this support of the legislative body will actually be a sign to the Bulgarian municipalities, we will give the opportunity to all new teams of local authorities to start the realization of these projects, which are the most important for the citizens of a municipality road, water, light and access to everything that in a modern state in the 21st century should have every Bulgarian citizen. Once again, I congratulate you on this position and call on you to support these proposals of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u218	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for the lines, and especially for the tone, because I think that when we have normal conversations, no matter if it's from the stands or in the couloirs of parliament, I think we can always find a solution to any question. Once again, each of the MPs has the right of the region from which it is to support, propose and want something to happen. You're saying that the Northwest like this, the Northwest... There are other regions that don't live better than the Northwest. We shouldn't split the people northwest, northeast, southeast and so on. I say that, including us, as part of the ruling coalition, it is clear to us that we have not done enough for life in these small settlements to improve, because these are problems that have been accumulated for decades, and in some settlements have not even happened those things that are normal in the 21st century. That's why I said about the Regional Ministry. The question is the Regional Ministry to make an account and calculate over the next ten years how much money can be spent in order to have normal water supply in the settlements, to have sewerage, treatment plants, electricity, sidewalks. I will repeat the example of Albania again. There are cities where people live better, there are mountain areas where they live very badly, but they don't offer a program It may include more settlements, cities and so on, but where every government.. no matter who manages the state will perform, will follow the program and the lives of these people will change. I do not mind supporting any proposal, but the point is that even if we solve the problem in one village, another village will not be solved. I say it not to pretend to understand people's problems in small towns, but because I have personally spent two and a half years with my family, with my two little daughters, most of the time living in a village like this, and I see what the problems are. Therefore, I do not want to divide people into such people from there and from there, because these are Bulgarians who live in one country and we have to solve their problems together. And it is not so complicated and difficult, because there are funds that are devoted to certain things that can be reduced in the future, so that there is funds for one such programme or fund, where the state is being asked, even if the municipality is not willing, to be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u220	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Dear MPs, guests of the National Assembly are a representative group of students from the National Military University. The group is led by the Head of the University Colonel Malamov. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] Mr. Popovski, you have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will personally support Stefan Burgeev's proposal from BSP for the sports hall in Pleven. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What do I mean? What he said was really very disturbing. Pleven we are a town that has two unbuilt sports halls. One started 30 years ago at the end of socialism, a very serious construction, and since 27 years there has been rebars, metal columns that look like a scene for a horror movie. Even the Boyana Cinema Centre can take it to make some attractive film. The other sports hall, the more real, the smaller and possible, has been unbuilt for six or seven years. What Burdzhev said is absolutely correct "2 million have already been spent in design and in basics and about 8 million are enough to build this gym. The city's 90 grand at the moment. The basketball team of Spartacus Pleven, who is in A group, plays in a hall that is at least 50 years old and is made for working championships. She wasn't made for high-sporting craftsmanship. It is made for mass sport. The hall of the Balkanstroy in the town of Pleven, so that the 8 million are so important for the development of both sports and the cultural events in the city that can be made in this hall. With the new modern technologies it can be built literally in a few months within even a calendar year. It's for 3,600 seats. I just recall that such halls currently have Botevgrad and Samokov, which are one fifth of the town of Pleven. For example, Botevgrad is the size of the district of Storgoziya, or Samokov has such sports halls, there is no Pleven. We should no longer be discriminated against in this way. I hope that my fellow Members will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u222	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making this statement almost explaining why I have not tabled a proposal under art. 50 of the State Budget Act. Two years until now, I have submitted proposals, no matter which municipality they are from, whose party rules in this municipality or in the given village. I have introduced proposals where the Bulgarian Socialist Party rules, and where GERB rules, and where the DPS rules. These are the main political forces in the region that I represent. I want to tell you that so far none of these proposals, although they were very pressing, have happened. I am quite rightly beginning to think that the allocation of resources in Bulgaria for how people live in the divided settlements is decided very much outside this parliamentary hall. One example by taking the numbers from this budget. The total capital subsidy for municipalities in Bulgaria is just over 199 million. BGN, and by decree of the Council of Ministers at the end of last year were distributed nearly a billion and 700 million. lv. This caused different reactions. In a moment, I'm going to tell you how a city mayor reacted to this distribution. Here I would like to welcome Mr. Angelov for the extended hand, because in this way the discussion, in the way of leaving can change a lot, because it turns out that there is money in the end. In addition to those regions that my previous colleagues mentioned here, and Mr. Angelov, I can also add villages around the cities district centers. In the years they were also forgotten by the operational programs. They were defined as villages in urban-type municipalities and for them there was no European funding, and the state funding there was not great. I can also suggest other approaches in which local communities can say what the municipalities need to say. For example, I welcome Smolyan region and other areas that have begun to apply the approach of intra-Community development where communities say what it should be. Let us also welcome this approach where projects can be implemented between different regions. Projects to serve to unite efforts in certain areas, regardless of the boundaries of the municipalities, even the borders of the districts. That's my view, but it can't fit into this budget. I don't want to ruin any more as the MP projects that the municipalities have worked out and which they need very much. Last year, when the government handed out the last money with a decree, a city mayor wrote on Facebook: Shame, shame, shame! I'm ashamed of you, ladies and gentlemen. The reason is yesterday's decision of the Council of Ministers to allocate targeted subsidies. Dear, did you know that these municipalities are mainly from the mixed areas of the country and have been repeatedly supported in the last 20 years, including you, in the previous mandates? The slogan that, you see, the Prime Minister and the government don't divide people into ours and yours, is worn out! There's history, there's statistics. Shame on you! There hasn't been a single street in my community since you've been in power. Shame on you! In the next election, I'll invite you to meet the people. I assure you, you will not be happy. Wear your helmets. People can't move on the streets anymore. [[(Noise and lines from GERB: "What is this?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u224	Is he threatening us?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u225	I'm waiting for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u226	I'm saying what a mayor wrote!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u227	Guys, stay out of this. You're running out of time, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u228	And he gives examples in the various municipalities where squares, sports halls are sponsored, and asks: "Is there any sports activity at all? " [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u229	Finish it, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u230	I'm graduating. Have you thought about sports before? I feel like we're being run by the Oresharski government again. I'm sorry, but the people supported us. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u231	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u232	He's right, and he's mayor of GERB, fortunately. Mayor of GERB! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u233	Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian municipality is at the barricade in the battle with regard to solving the problems of Bulgarian citizens and people. Unfortunately, however, the Bulgarian municipality is losing this battle. He loses this battle because of the model in which the municipality itself operates, in which you make it function because of the method of financing, because of the inability of the Bulgarian municipality to predict, to plan its costs, to plan its activities. Because you refuse to provide the Bulgarian municipality, on the one hand, and, on the other, you load it through the legislation with more and more obligations requiring, of course, financial resources requiring personnel resources. And they have nowhere to provide it. When we propose and propose that most of the taxes remain in the respective municipalities so that they can secure part of their activities, you, of course, refuse to support this proposal. You prefer, through a decree of the Council of Ministers, not here, through the budget, to give them to ours, to your mayors budgets, which are practically not enough, they are targeted, but do not achieve their goal. Their effectiveness is too controversial, to put it mildly, because they are given for one thing, but the goal that you really want to achieve with them is quite another and you know it well. With regard to Vidin district, my colleague Tsvetan Topchiev and I face every day the misery in the area, the misery, the lack of work of the citizens of all 11 municipalities in the territory of Vidin district. We have proposed an increase in 10% of the capital expenditures of all 11 municipalities, regardless of which mayor is what, which political power is from, without regard to the majority in the municipal council of all 11 municipalities, because they are equally bad. Most of the municipalities in Vidin district are in debt. This, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Ciphrom and Word means about 480 thousand. lv. for 11 municipalities on the territory of Vidin district. In Vidin district, the main employer in the municipalities are the municipalities themselves. No investment, no footage, no job creation. There the municipality is everything, as I said, it is on the barricade, but you do not provide it with absolutely no resource. The municipalities themselves cannot function with the resources you provide them. I'm talking about all the municipalities. Did you know that about eight years ago in Vidin municipality there were no traffic lights, no electricity in the municipality, no pens to write with?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u235	Do they now?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u236	And here I'm not talking about running the city, I'm not talking about who the mayor was running, I'm talking about this model and way of funding. I hope you will support, at least our colleagues in the area, this proposal for a 10% increase in capital expenditure for each municipality, for all 11 municipalities totaling 480 thousand. lv. This will really give them a breath of air so that they can safely carry out their powers, their duties, those you assign them through legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u237	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there lines? A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u238	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am referring to the general subsidy for State delegated activities in art. 50. What I'm about to say actually applies to the next article. 51 and concerns the funds that the State allocates to the Chitalishte activities and to regional libraries. I think there is no need to convince ourselves what role the Bulgarian Chitalishtes play in the years of the revival that occurred during the time of Turkish slavery, when we do not have an independent state. These unique cultural institutions are one of the statures of spiritual integrity, of the awakening of Bulgarians, of our emancipation and of our establishment as a people. Together with the Bulgarian school, which arose at the time, together with the Bulgarian exarchy these are the three main pillars on which the modern Bulgarian nation is formed. After the Liberation it is the Bulgarian Chitalishtes that bring the modernity that brings the modern age into the Bulgarian state. We know how many theatres, the emergence of spirit orchestras, the emergence of other cultural institutions. They are all a product of the Bulgarian community center. This continues to this day. I believe that Bulgaria has the privilege, unlike even much bigger and richer countries and peoples than us from Western Europe, to have such a unique cultural institution in every place or almost any one of them. In Western Europe, you know, in small settlements, in villages there are no cultural centers or, if any, they are the product of some private personal initiative. In Bulgaria, our people have created these cultural centers, which create in turn for people who live there, a cultural product, create an opportunity to have access to culture, to literature, to new achievements. What are we doing today with regard to the Chitalishtes? I hope that we will no longer make such mistakes as this in 2017, let us say, when the planned budget funds were extremely insufficient and the Chitalishtes had to release their employees, their amateurs or rather the secretary-librarians, on unpaid leave during the summer months, so that the funds for salaries could be sufficient. Thank God we haven't had that problem in the last two years. Even in the current budget, the money that is being allocated is estimated precisely and provides for the provision of the salaries of the people employed in this area. How many are there really? Just under 8,000 people receive their salaries from the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. Is that a lot or a little bit? I do not believe that such a number of employees is a serious problem for the state budget. So we are making a proposal that affects both the Chitalishtes and the libraries of 1 million. 801 thousand. £400. increasing the initial plan provided for by the state budget for 2020. The only objective with which we make this proposal, along with providing funds for salaries and social security, hospital and so on, is to have an additional resource with which the Chitalishtes can implement their cultural programme. You know that municipalities accept the cultural calendar of the Chitalishtes every year. However, many of the municipalities do not support this institution financially. This is allowed only the richer, larger municipalities, which provide additional funds for Chitalishte activities. But I don't think the state should abdicate from this function. The state should provide funds for both maintenance and cultural program of the Bulgarian Chitalishtes. That is why we are making this proposal. As far as regional libraries are concerned, they correspond to the country's administrative division of 27 regional libraries. You all know how broad their activities are, not only as places where you can touch the latest literary achievements in the world or classical ones, but they also carry out research, they also carry out a very rich cultural program. There, honourable Members, the necessary amount to reach the possibility of a 10% increase [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. It's only 261 thousand. 408 BGN to have an increase in wages not 8.6%, but 10%, as in the other sectors. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you to support this proposal of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u239	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? We'll resume work in 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u240	Colleagues, we're moving on. Colleagues, I first put to the vote Mrs. Christina Sidorova's unsupported proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 24, against 49, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u241	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u242	Re-vote, yeah. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u243	Thank you. Madam President, I request a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u244	Please re-vote Mrs. Sidorova's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 145 MPs: 37 against 62, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Mrs Klisurska's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 150 MPs: 47, against 62, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Philip Popov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 162 MPs: 59 against 60 abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the vote on the proposal of Mr. Krum Zarkov and Mr. Georgi Stoilov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 166 MPs: 64 against 49, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov, unspoiled by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: 58, against 48, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Stefan Burgeev. They voted 175 MPs: for 69, against 52, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 32, against 70, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. They voted 177 MPs: 64, against 57, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 50, supported by the Commission. Vote 187 MPs: 121, against 64, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u245	Under art. 51 there is a proposal of the National Representative Nighyar Jaffer and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The figures of the municipalities for the activities delegated by the State are estimated: For the activity of health and health, the number of the number..170 000,7 thousand. lv. is replaced by the number lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov and Julian Krastev Angelov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51, in the attached table of the last row, the number of the number of activities delegated by the State is replaced by the number of the number of the last row?3 654 986,6 is replaced by the number of the number in the column. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Dora Yankova and Stefan Burgeev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51 in the table, in column 5............................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u246	Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u247	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The offer my colleague Dora Yankova and I made under art. 51 of the draft budget is in the direction of increasing the remuneration of the employees, the activities delegated by the State in the We are talking about the following activities: activities of children's cribs, activities of children's kitchens, children's gardens with nursery groups and those working in health offices in schools and kindergartens. Our proposal is the total amount of 170.7 million. lv. to increase to 200,7 million. lv. The problems in this sector for municipal healthcare and the municipal nurseries are many, they also concern the regulations. Morally outdated are the systems concerning nurseries, namely Regulation No 26, on which a medical professional must answer between 8 and 16 children, and because of this there is more income in each manger, children sometimes exceed 20. This is extremely overloading the work of the staff in the nursery. They with their low remuneration are extremely demotivated. I'm going to make a very serious argument. The workers in a manger with up to 10 years of service are 5%, from 11 to 25 years of service are 18% and from 26 to 45 years of service form 70% and more of the workers in a nursery, which is why we can realize that soon the system with upbringing, upbringing and care for the youngest children after 1 year of age can blow up and seriously crack. And it is the basis of how they are formed, how we take care of future generations, what is prevention, attitude and upbringing to them. The same applies to the legal basis which regulates the number of children for whom a medical person should be responsible. In the gardens, this number is 60 children, for the schools of one nurse's 800 children, I repeat. This Regulation No 3 is from April 2000. We can all make it clear that for these nearly 20 years, so much has changed the demographic ratio, internal migration, migration to abroad of Bulgarian citizens and their children that there are exceptional imbalances. There are places, addressing our professional syndicates when we had a meeting with them, said there were cases, and in most of them a nurse is responsible for more than one institution. There are cities in which a nurse, in order to catch up with 800 children, is responsible for five schools. Can you imagine a pre-retirement nurse walking around like an ambulance between five schools? This is about the care, attitude, health and regulation and monitoring of the health status of Bulgarian students and children. My colleague and I have offered me this $30 million, although at a meeting earlier this year there is a commitment by the Ministry that this sector will be financed with $7 million, but I think it is as serious the problem and as positive as it can give if it is secured financially, and so many negatives can be created if this system is blown up. I would like to call on you to think seriously about this. I'll give you one more argument, because it's also important for workwear. It's not arranged properly...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u248	The weather, Mr. Burgeev. Guide yourself to completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u249	...the problem and he in many municipalities is transferred between the state and the municipality who should take 250 BGN. of a worker in the function I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u250	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Nighyar Jaffer and a group of MPs. They voted 183 MPs: for 70, against 46, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov. Vote 163 MPs: 51 against 35, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and Stefan Burgeev. Vote 181 MPs: 80, against 46, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 51, supported by the Commission. Vote 189 MPs: 117 against 72, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u251	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52 " 57 " inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u252	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 52 - 57 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 190 MPs: 117 against 73, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u253	Under art. 58 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 58th number "sixty-two' is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Kirilova Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 58: Art. 58. Confirms a total annual quota for the provision of food vouchers under art. No. 209, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u254	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 191 MPs: for 76, against 64, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the editorial of art. 58 on the Commission report. Vote 191 MPs: 159, against 21, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mareshki, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u255	Madam President, honourable Members! In recent days, we have seen very low political passions, and I think that gives me enough reason to introduce to you what some poets have said, respectively, what I think about this topic in the final. ▪ Who are you? He asked the Devil... I am a plebeian by birth, and all the ragheads are my brothers. Oh, how ugly the land is and how miserable the people are! That's what a young man said, with his forehead straight and his fists clenched. He stood in front of the ladder high ladder of white marble with pink streaks. His gaze was shot in the distance, where like the cloudy waves of the river came roaring the gray crowds of misery. They were excited, they were bawling, they were raising a forest of dry black hands, a thunder of resentment and furious cries, they were shaking the air, and the echo was dying slowly, solemnly like distant loud thunders. Crowds grew, came in clouds yellow powder, separate silhouettes became clearer and clearer cut out on the common gray background. There was an old man coming down low like he was looking for his lost youth. For his raggedy dress was held a bare-footed little girl and looked at the tall ladder with mildness, blue as a broom's eyes. He looked and smiled. And after them came all the gaudy, gray, dry figures, and in a choir sang a stretched, funeral song. Someone was loudly playing with his mouth, another one, putting his hands in his pockets, laughing loudly, humming, and in his eyes was burning madness. I am a plebeian by birth, and all my ragheads are my brothers. Oh, how ugly the land is and how miserable the people are! Oh, you up there, you... That's what a young man was talking about, with his forehead straight and his fists squealed. You hate those guys upstairs? The Devil was asked, and cunningly turned to the young man. I will avenge these princes and princes. I will avenge them for my brothers, for my brothers, who have faces as yellow as sand, who groan more sinister than the blizzards of December! Look at their naked bloody flesh, listen to their groanings! I will avenge them! Let go of me! The devil smiled: I am the watchman of those above, and without bribes I will not betray them. I have no gold, I have nothing to bribe you with... I'm a poor, raggedy teenager... But I'm ready to put my head on. The devil smiled again: Oh, no, I don't want that much! Just give me your hearing! Your hearing? I'd love to... Let me never hear anything, let me... You'll hear again! The Devil calmed him down and made way for him. Minnie! The young man ran, walked three steps at once, but the devil's hairy hand pulled him: That's enough! Stop listening to them moaning down there, your brothers! The boy stopped and listened: ♪ Strangely, why did they suddenly start singing cheerfully and so carefreely to laugh?... And he ran again. The devil stopped him again: To pass three more steps, I want your eyes! The boy desperately waved his hand. But then I will not be able to see my brothers or those to whom I am going to avenge! The Devil: ♪ You'll see again... ♪ I'll give you other, much better eyes! The boy went three more steps and looked at the bloated. The devil reminded him: Look at their naked bloody meats. Oh, my God! This is so strange: when were they able to dress so nicely? And instead of bloody wounds, they're surrounded by wonderful red roses! Every three steps the Devil took his small ransom. But the young man walked, and he gave all things willingly, as long as he came there and avenged these fat princes and princes! Here's one step, just one more step, and he'll be upstairs! He will avenge his brothers! I'm a plebeian by birth and all the ragheads... Young man, one more step! Just one more step, and you'll get your revenge. But I always take a double ransom for this step: give me your heart and memory. The guy took his hand off: The Heart? No! That's very cruel! The devil laughed his throat, authority: I'm not that cruel. I'll give you in return a heart of gold and a new memory! If you do not accept, you will never pass this step, you will never avenge your brothers, those who have faces like sand and groan worse than December blizzards. The young man looked at the green ironic eyes of the Devil: But I will be the most unhappy. You take everything from me human. On the contrary, the happiest!... But? Do you agree? Just your heart and your memory. The young man thought, a black shadow lay upon his face, on the wrinkled forehead, clouded drops of sweat. He angryly shrugged his fists and procedes through his teeth: Let it be! Take it. And as a summer storm, angry and angry, blowing black hair, he passed the last step. He was already at the top. Suddenly he had a smile in his face, his eyes glowed with quiet joy, and his fists relaxed. He looked at the feasting princes, and looked down, and cried, and cursed the grey rag crowd. He looked, but no muscle flickered over his face; it was bright, cheerful, contented. He saw downstairs festively dressed crowds, the groans were already hymns. Who are you? The Devil asked him slylyly. I am a prince by birth, and my gods are brothers. Oh, how beautiful the earth is and how unhappy the people are. This, fellow Members, is the latest work of Hristo Smirnenski, in which the poet represents political renegades who rose from social lowlands and became princes. What does today's poet, who has the valor and courage with his name come out and write the following yesterday or that day, namely Nikolay Milchev, a teacher, a writer translated into several languages: The Stairway of Smirnenski drives people like Valeri Simeonov. [[(Comments from GERB: Not true! Wow!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u256	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u257	The fact that one year after being blown away by tears, anger, grief, booing, Valeri Simeonov is once again chief and our country is bad, very bad. [[Noise and lines.]] This is a heavy sign that public opinion in Bulgaria is only a rag with which the rulers wipe their shoes before entering their Mercedes and SUVs. The fact that the person who uttered the words "crying mothers of supposedly sick children" will lie on the highest podium of the National Assembly is diagnosed with a diagnosis of deep political amnesia and cynicism. No justifications for rules, norms and coalition agreements justify the absurdity of watching this figure guide the highest authority of the state. Have you ever noticed how he's always in a hurry to step on his feet and cut off, how he says hello on the move?! That's because he's very busy. He gets gassy, comes from one job and flies to do another. And you?! You just sit and watch, you watch, and it works also because of you pictures and positions. For me it is really inexplicable how after what happened Valeri Simeonov sought this again. It is incomprehensible that this manic stubbornness to be in the forehead of the state after spitting in the face of her suffering. There's only one explanation: Power drives people out of their minds who are not ready to view it as debt, but look at it as a ladder. The Stairway of Smirnenski drives people like Valeri Simeonov crazy, and now he's fallen this ladder up and he won't leave it. Add to this stubbornness, complexes and deformed common love and you will approach the essence of this figure. Valeri Simeonov's case is scary by becoming a model, in practice, and we watch and blink. I will not accept the fact that I feel that Valeri Simeonov will get away with it this time, how energy for honor, dignity and justice in society disappears and the snow slowly showers it. That's right! The snow showers everything and becomes white and nice, and the mothers, with their black clothes, are like sad multi-pointers. That's not what Veselin Mareshki says, and that's what our contemporary is saying, the poet Nikolai Mirchev. If I must add by myself: it is true that the election of the colleague as Vice-President of Parliament is lawful, but is it godly? How do we look before God? In front of morale? Is that moral? [[Noise and lines.]] The people have said it again is not Veselin Mareshki and no one from Volya: a word cast, a stone cast. The ugly sort of apology for the people, so under a surdinka, and the showy, arrogant, cynical resurrection again, literally a year, right on the date on which he was shot down, at a higher post than the deputy prime minister to the vice-president of parliament, that's a defamation of everything those who Smirnenski wrote down are fighting for, and he showed those for whom he climbed up. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For us, it is more convenient for him to be Deputy Prime Minister or Vice-President of Parliament. We'll be able to give him a lecture like this every day.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u258	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u259	We call on him: a little humility and a step back, to come out really with the hand of the heart, to apologize to the people, to sit in his place, to pray, to pray to all Bulgarians, to all mothers, to pray to the Lord to forget and forgive. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u260	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Simeonov, are you here for a personal explanation or on behalf of a parliamentary group? Mr. Simeonov's personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u261	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As I said before, such assessments, from such people, are a compliment to us. Precises and attempts at moralizing by people with accusations of hooliganism, racketeering, tax evasion and tax fraud can be nothing but a compliment. And I will finish with the wisdom of a people close to us: the Lord has given the fool his mouth to eat, not to speak. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. We'll continue the budget work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u263	Article 59 and art. 60 are by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 59 and 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u264	Statements under Articles 59 and 60? I won't. I shall put the text to the vote for art. Art. 59, Art. 60 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 178 MPs: 95, against 83, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u265	Under art. 61 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 61 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u266	Statements? I put to the vote first the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 180 MPs: 84, against 48, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 61, supported by the Commission. Vote 185 MPs: 97 against 81, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u267	Under art. 62 has a proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova: Art. 62, para. 9 is amended as follows: The amount of one-off aid for the birth of a live child under art. 6, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is as follows: 1. for first child - 1000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a second child - BGN 2000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a third child• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for the fourth and each next child - 1000 BGN;................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2, 3 and 5 are repealed; 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is as follows: 1. for a family with one child - 40 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a family with two children - BGN 90• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a family with three children - BGN 135• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for a family with four children - BGN 145 and for each next child in the family the help for the family grows by BGN 20 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 10: The amount of one-off aid for the birth of a second and/or third child under art. 6, para. 3 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is BGN 6500. for each child........................................................................ to every child................................ 2. Al. 10 " 13" became respectively. 11 " 14. 3. Al. 14 becomes para. 15, in which it is replaced by.6,6500. 4. Al. 15.. 18 become respectively. 16 "Sixteen. " The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. in para. 2 the number 2. in para. 3 the number..400,01... is replaced by.40,01.. and the number..500.. is replaced The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62: Art. 62. (1) The monthly income under art. 4 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is BGN 450. (2) The monthly income under art. 4a, para. 2, p. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is 410 BGN. (3) The monthly income under art. 4a, para. 2, p. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is from 41,01 BGN. up to BGN 510 including, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, (4) The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 for families with an average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months, lower or equal to the income under para. 2, is as follows: 1. for a family with one child - 40 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a family with two children - BGN 90• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a family with three children - BGN 135• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for a family with four children - BGN 145 and for each child in the family the help for the family grows by BGN 20. (5) The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 for families with an average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months under para. 3 is 80 percent of the amount of aid defined in para. 4. (6) The amount of monthly support for raising a child under art. 7, para. 2 of the Family Aid Act for children is defined and paid in the amount under para. 4 t. 1. (7) The amount of monthly support to raise twins under art. 7, para. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children is BGN 75. (8) The amount of single help in pregnancy under art. 5a, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is BGN 150. (9) The amount of one-off assistance in the birth of a live child under art. 6, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is as follows: 1. for first child - 250 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a second child - 600 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a third child 300 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for the fourth and every next child - BGN 200 (10) The amount of the additional single aid for a child with established permanent disabilities 50 and above 50 per cent until the age of 2 years under art. 6, para. 6 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is 100 BGN. (11) The amount of one-off assistance in adoption of a child under art. 6b, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children is defined and paid in the amount under para. 9, p. 1. (12) The amount of monthly support for raising a child until one year of age under art. 8, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is 100 BGN. (13) The amount of single help to raise twins under art. 6a, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is BGN 1200. for every child. (14) The amount of single care for a child by a mother (the adoptive mother) student, studying in regular form of training, according to art. 8c, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is BGN 2880. (15) The amount of monthly support to raise a child with permanent impairment under art. 8d, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is as follows: 1. for a child with defined 90 and over 90 per cent appearance and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced working capacity.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a child with defined from 70 to 90 per cent appearance and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced working capacity.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. for a child with defined from 50 to 70 per cent appearance and degree of damage or degree of permanently reduced working capacity. (16) The amount of monthly support to raise a child with permanent disability under art. 8d, para. 2 of the Children's Aid Act for 2020 is as follows: 1. for a child with defined 90 and over 90 per cent appearance and degree of disability or degree of permanently reduced working capacity.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for a child with defined from 70 to 90 per cent appearance and degree of damage or degree of permanently reduced working capacity ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................• • 3. for a child with defined from 50 to 70 per cent appearance and degree of damage or degree of permanently reduced working capacity. (17) The amount of monthly aid for a child without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent under art. 8f, para. 1 of the Family Aid Act for children for 2020 is 115 BGN. (18) The amount of benefits under art. 230, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 231, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 is 340 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u268	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria lays down the conditions and the amounts of family aid for children. I take the floor to motivate our proposals, but before I do so, I would like to point out to you that access to these aids is difficult, as the conditions for receiving them, the income criterion, prevent most of the Bulgarians from taking these family aids for children. I see you've made some attempt to pick them up afterwards, because at first it was intended to freeze the income criterion. You raised the income criterion by 10 BGN, which when raising the minimum wage, when raising the average wage for the country will hardly be anything significant when receiving assistance from the Bulgarian children. Especially annoying are the aids for the children who receive the children, as people tell them, because the Bulgarians believe, although these are aids which are both by the laws of logic and by social logic should have some kind of income criterion, but the Bulgarians believe that all children should receive such children. You all know that very well. In addition, their size is also frozen at last year's inadequately low levels, although I say again: inflation and the growth of minimum and average incomes. I want to motivate our proposals. In our alternative budget and in our proposal, which has just been presented in the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, it is planned to provide one-off aid of BGN 6500. Ten minimum salaries for each second and third child of a minimum of 24 months back parents. First of all, I explain 6500 are ten minimum salaries, because in our alternative budget the minimum wage will be 650 BGN. Secondly, I would like to emphasise that it is money and money that will be paid and provided only to parents insured for a minimum of 24 months back. The amount that is needed here is not large at all 60 million. lv. There is also an increase in one-off assistance for female mothers from 2880 BGN, as it is at the moment, to BGN 6,500, which costs about 20 million. BGN, or a total of 80 million. lv. We've told you where the money will come from for these increased expenses. Recently, aid criteria have been made for student mothers to minimize abuse, and we can afford to increase this amount so that there is some real incentive for these young people to have children. There are many reasons for the proposal. Among them, first of all, are: the serious dimensions of poverty, social exclusion in our country, serious social disintegration and gigantic inequalities; the people in Bulgaria who receive incomes below what is needed for normal life have reached 71%; at risk of poverty or social exclusion live 41%, or around 510 thousand of Bulgarian children; the maintenance of life is becoming more difficult; nearly two thirds of the costs are for food, heating, lighting, transport, which follows that any new increase puts a significant part of Bulgarian households to a serious test, regardless of course there is some increase in minimum income and average income for the country. According to Eurostat Bulgaria heads the negative ranking for the highest inequalities in the European Union, measured by Ginny's coefficient and this negative trend is deepening. Our other motive is the demographic crash. The population of Bulgaria is melting and ageing. With each passing year, the number of children born alive is steadily decreasing and this requires urgent, enhanced and concrete measures to stimulate responsible parenting. To conclude, I expect support from all parliamentary groups. With interest I will follow the vote, although I do not see Georgi Markov here, because he has repeatedly promoted a similar measure to support families of newborn children, implemented in Hungary, to which we all applaud when it comes to solving demographic problems and which, according to him, results in the battle against the demographic catastrophe. I'll be interested in following the other parliamentary groups, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u270	Mr. Gokov, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u271	...all announced certain policies are in support of children and families, and we should support such actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u272	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 199 MPs: for 85, against 26, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 202 MPs: 85 against 14, abstention 103. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 202 MPs: 77 against 28, abstention 97. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 62 on the Commission report. Vote 212 MPs: 115, against 92, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u273	Article 63 shall be based on the Report of the Committee on Importation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u274	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 63, supported by the Commission. Vote 218 MPs: 121, against 96, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u275	Under art. 64 has a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 64 words - BGN - BGN 1 - are replaced by BGN 8 - BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u276	Statements? Mr. Vigenin, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u278	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u279	Democracy is not a given. The fight for its preservation and development is fought daily. History is full of examples of self-sacrifice and bloody battles in the name of democracy, but it is also full of examples of how democratic systems are transformed step by step into totalitarian regimes. The signs are always the same concentration of power in a person or a small trusted circle, limiting media freedom, pressing and fighting with the opposition. I will give a final example by which I want to illustrate the problem without making analogies. One of the big questions that a whole generation after the collapse of Hitler's Germany couldn't answer is: how did we let this happen? I do not blame, only once again, that democracy, European standards in politics are not a given and must be defended every day. It's the debt of anyone who calls himself a Democrat. Today, the frustration of these principles is taking place in front of our eyes, slowly, imperceptibly, but still reversible. First, the media are placed under the control of the oligarchy which cannot be controlled, pressured or liquidated. Behind the colorful facade of media pluralism, there is already a gray-black picture that sends us to the bottom of the media freedom charts. Secondly, in the summer, just before the local elections then, a double blow was made against one, directly against the opposition, the second, against the state's stand as a whole. On the one hand, the opposition was deprived without warning of financial resources, which dramatically limited its capabilities. As experts from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe say: in fact, political pluralism in Bulgaria was threatened. And second, on the other hand, the opportunity was opened through unlimited donations from legal entities to completely legally invade politics, to complete the country's control of oligarchy against the interests of the people. Both steps are in clear contradiction with all recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, in general with a healthy sense. We have asked in this regard for an opinion from the specialized institution dealing with election monitoring and its recommendations are unambiguous: the changes made in July to be completely cancelled. These changes have been made and despite the public doubt expressed by the Prime Minister, despite the clear awareness of the negative consequences of this decision. Today we have the chance to revise this mistake before it brings about irreversible consequences. Look at this problem as statesmen, as people who are not only interested in the short-term rubbing of the nose of the opposition and of small parties, not only the opportunity to take revenge on themselves, let's put it this way against an uncompromising leader of the opposition. Remember that one day, sooner or later, you will find yourself in a minority, and you will find yourself in opposition. Let us stop this unprecedented game and outline the boundaries that will not be crossed, no matter how strong the pressure of populists is. I would like to remind you that BSP, which put the foundation of the reviving Bulgarian democracy 30 years ago, created all the conditions of the then opposition to be built and functioning normally, because it was right, it was right, so democracy was created in Bulgaria. In July this year you returned us to November 1989. Consider once again that move of the summer did not bring you popularity, did not bring you new supporters. You've shown your strength. Now it's time to show your sanity. I'm sure this will be appreciated by the nation. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u280	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, to remind, because of the short and convenient political memory of some parties and individual MPs: the funding of the political parties happened many years ago with the active participation of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and of MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, who then held certain key positions, on which it depended to push this process, with the participation of the entire society, NGOs, journalists who are to some extent desiccated makers. Nam.. of DPS and, of course, our coalition partners are entitled to this funding to start and reach 12 BGN. Out loud. We have never been supporters of funding other than budget funding, because it is best for the development of the democratic political process. However, when the processes dictated by others, motivated by other processes and other events, our party turned out to be in the epicenter of the insults that everyone received a party subsidy. I don't need to remind you of that. When a surrender decided to become a political party, decided to play with populism and to inflict this severe blow on Bulgarian democracy and the Bulgarian political process, we are not afraid of what will happen to us in this programme. I address you, Mrs. Ninova, as leader of the opposition. We were not afraid during the referendum to say that this was nonsense! You were afraid! You didn't say anything! You left two million Bulgarian citizens to make an uninformed decision. And when the ruling party decided that it would implement this referendum, we decided that everyone should bear the consequences of populism or short-sightedness. That's why, Mr. Vigenin, we don't accept democracy from you! No matter how right you are, we don't accept! The cries must have been preceded by far-sighted political actions, decisions and political courage to tell people the truth! This is what we did then, during the referendum and look at the results our electorate did not support the referendum! If yours hadn't supported him, the referendum wouldn't have passed. Yes, it did not pass for 12 thousand votes legally, but now they have the right to say: two million and a fault Bulgarian citizens said so. Why have we asked for funding from economic entities to be allowed? Because there's either government funding or there's other funding. We were the authors of the ban on any other funding when we made the 12 levs. Us! I personally submitted the proposal for 12 BGN and for banning funding. With the coalition participation and during the Triple Coalition of your party. Let us also remember that everyone who has done is responsible. Regarding the current situation, I now address the ruling majority. When GERB submitted the proposal for a lev, we made consultations. Mrs. Stoyanova, do you remember what you said at those consultations? Let me remind you: this will be temporary until we have a political debate on what the model should be and what the amount of funding should be. And that, you said, will happen during the budget procedure. Colleagues, such a debate did not take place. Ms. Ninova tried to provoke such a debate, the ruling majority did not participate. We have nothing to do if the ruling majority does not want this. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You've given at least twice seven minutes today, so I'm going to break the rules and please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u282	Seven minutes, no. One minute on top of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u283	No, not seven minutes, and I'll tell you who. It was about education.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u284	Come on in, talk to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u285	This debate did not take place in order to see exactly what the funding should be, so that the small political parties and those who are averages to call them the DPS, as well as the colleagues on the right, should receive sufficient funds to enable them to function normally so that we can again ban funding. Instead, there was a meeting somewhere, something else, and a number eight came up. But 8 we don't want. It's not a solution for us. It's a solution for those who have one million and 50 thousand, and for those who have 950 thousand votes. It's a wonderful solution. 8 BGN. For the DPS, that's not a great solution. We don't accept it. Offer here 10 or 11 BGN, which is a good solution for the small parties and you will see how the DPS will vote for............................................................................................... But for this decision we are going to vote against it and we are not taking any mentoring tone about what we have resolved and what we have not, because what you are crying about right now, we have done it from the DPS! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u286	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Bikov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u287	Madam President, honourable Members! We also agree with what the BSP said and with what the DPS said, but the price in this debate, which has been going on for several years, was paid by us because we in the last parliament and in this Parliament were the largest parliamentary group and we were represented as the people who stopped this universal request for a subsidy of 1 BGN. Of course, your arguments have reason to believe that parties need funding. It is good that after we accepted the subsidy to be BGN 1, this debate began to be held by everyone. Because before that, this debate was being held by us and by a TV show that was going on one of the national television stations. The cries of both BSP and DPS, colleagues, were not so strong in our support. We were under heavy pressure all the time and everyone kept quiet while we were paying the political price for it. And that's why we said a few months ago that we refuse to pay that price anymore. That's resonant. Another point is that the budget is hardly the place for this debate. This debate has a place in the Law on Political Parties. We are open to dialogue, but we do not think that in this particular budget debate we should resolve this serious political issue, which is a question for the political model in Bulgaria, it is not a question for the budget for 2020. That is why we are open to talk, but not so ad hoc and not at this time. We are not yet ready to pay this political price ourselves. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Yes, Mr. Karadaye, we're not ready to pay for it ourselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u288	What's your position? What was it like at the time of the referendum?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u289	Our position is that we will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u290	Mr. Karadaye, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u291	We're going to vote for the grant to stay at BGN 1. with full responsibility and with the intention of continuing to have this debate with reasonable arguments, not with the arguments of a show program that, on top of that, no longer exists. Therefore, in order for this debate to really be serious, because it is important, let us take steps to implement it and let the 2020 budget be adopted as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u292	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u293	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear colleagues who have decided to support a lev subsidy, BSP will not ask you for money! BSP will not pray to Mr. Borisov for money! Our proposal is not to give some money, our proposal is the opposite of your understanding of politics in Bulgaria. [[(GERB's reply: When did you think of it?]] Our proposal is a proposal for the elections in Bulgaria to be held by political means. You got used to a lot of money, for ten years you got used to living in political luxury to earn money, to reproduce with government money and to win the next election with even more money! [[(Comments from GERB: You still have to return! Return the money!]] This approach in politics can be called anything but political pluralism, non-adventure struggle and no political opposition within our Constitution. You've changed the Constitution! You have changed the meaning of the Constitution and its principles with the maintenance of movement, which claims to be fighting for rights and freedoms. For whose rights and freedoms, honourable Members, are you fighting for the rights and freedoms of some of the Bulgarian citizens you represent?! [[Reply from DPS: "Everyone! "]] You, as you will fight for the rights of all citizens, will fight for the rights and those who represent them, the parties that currently have a limited subsidy. Your subsidy, fellow Members, the money you receive is linked to your participation in power anyway. Your participation in power gives you much greater opportunities in elections than the opposition's capabilities. BSP did not come out against Slavi Trifonov's pointless referendum because in Slavi Trifonov's referendum half of the questions were rejected by the Constitutional Court. It is high time for parliament to think about the framework of political democracy in Bulgaria and the border with square democracy. It is high time for all of us to think about the place and role of political parties, about the functioning of our current political system. This atrocity that you allow yourself will not bring you political success in the perspective I say it to my colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, because they today expressed a pathetic position here. You give way to the principles in the name of which your party was created, and this is the great retreat of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the opportunities for these rights and freedoms to be realized through the elections, through the parties, regardless of who has how much leva in their pocket. You forgot that! Don't forget that! Don't get too far away from yourself! Vote with the Bulgarian Socialist Party today! [[Noise and laughter in the hall.]] Be wise, as you have often done! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u294	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. First line, Mr. Tsonev, second line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I hate to make this line to you, but I must. I hate to do it to you. You have no right to ask the DPS about the rights and freedoms of which citizens is fighting because the essence of our proposal is not to provide enough money only to the big parties and their voters - eight leva is the same, five leva is the same, six leva is the same, we have passed here, there are not three or four months here, but to protect those subsidies that will provide enough funds for the smaller and medium-sized parties, and for their voters. As for whose rights and freedoms the DPS is fighting for, and in the name of whose rights and freedoms it was created, as you asked, I think you shouldn't have pulled us for the language to tell you that the DPS arose, fighting for the rights and freedoms of those who were beaten by your party. [[Applause from DPS]] The broken rights and freedoms of the Bulgarian Muslims, taken away, and sacrificed for it. And it's you, please don't do it, don't ask for whose rights and freedoms the DPS is fighting for! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u296	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u297	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Mr. Jablyanov! The participation in the power of the Political Party GERB for 13 years does not come either with terror or with coup or with money. GERB's participation in power comes because Bulgarian citizens have so wished. Bulgarian citizens over 2 million and 500,000 wished and voted in a referendum the subsidy for political parties to be one lev and we were obliged to comply. For the political perspective of the parties, Mr. Zablyanov, I think that at least you, as a representative of the Communist Party, who, according to Mr. Tsonev, has much more to pay for all the misdeeds she has done [[crowd cheering and cheering]] , fact. Don't talk! And finally. I am surprised that for the first time, perhaps, you from BSP will not ask anything Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u298	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova! Mr. Zablyanov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u299	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonev, we have no differences about the universal nature of the rights and freedoms of every citizen and the universal nature of human rights. This is the deep understanding of every socialist, of every left-wing person in Bulgaria and not only in Bulgaria, it is proven and stamped with decades and centuries of struggles and there is no need for me to argue it. Hundreds of thousands of members of the party that you spoke of fought against the official policy imposed then for defending rights and freedoms in some difficult times, convinced of the justice of this cause against the own official course of their own party, and I know dozens of such people, and you probably know it, so I consider this subject to be closed and exhausted. All I'm saying is that there should be no retreat from what we have reached as democratic standards. You mentioned the contribution of the Movement of Rights and Freedoms to the introduction of this funding principle. I will add for the role of the government of the Triple Coalition, which fully introduced state funding, with concrete facts. [[Reply from DPS.]] You said it! So we don't have any differences here. The question is why today because of the political konncture, for other reasons, because of the feuds and labors, because of the achievement of some small victories, because of some small PR effect we tend to make a retreat from the principles of democracy that have been reached in Bulgaria. That's BSP's position. Why won't we pray? Because, first, the predecessor of our party, the one to which we are a successor, did everything possible, including in material terms, to function, to appear and to strengthen the opposition in Bulgaria. This is also a historical fact. We see no reason for 30 years after the changes to do the opposite, especially when we are members of a truly democratic community based on the universal principles of democracy and representative governance. I think that the majority of Bulgarian citizens are already aware of the essence of this debate here, and I agree that the referendum was held in the context of informality of the Bulgarian citizens. Our role as everyone... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u300	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u301	...Parties is this opinion, which was imposed in the Bulgarian society, to change it depends on us, depends on the Presidency of the National Assembly, on the presidents of political parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u302	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u303	Thank you, I haven't been able to answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u304	One step at a time, you'll answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u305	I'll answer the line myself, then. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u306	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Colleagues, any other speeches? Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u307	Madam President, honourable Members! A colleague of the DPS conspired to play populism. Colleagues, you had the opportunity between first and second readings, according to your estimates, to make a proposal for a ten leva subsidy out loud. And it is precisely the lack of such a proposal that shows populism in your speech. We are also talking about a referendum, but this referendum is not mandatory for the National Assembly. We also heard a show program. I feel like the National Assembly is being held hostage by a show program. The colleague from GERB spoke about payment at a political price. We are talking here with the current law and with the current payment, not payment for a political price, but payment for the price of democracy. However, when we talk about populism by the DPS, let us not forget that you suggested that the parties go into the hands of business, and not very white, in Bulgaria [[DRF lines]] With your proposal. What we are proposing right now is with one goal only to protect political pluralism, because if we do not, Mr. Tsonev, we will turn political life into a corporate dictatorship. And I'm sure that's exactly what you want, because I've said it more than once from this tribune. You are the most corporate party, the most unprincipled and...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u308	Mr. Mirchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u309	...what you're doing is hypocrisy, because in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u310	Mr. Mirchev, I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u311	... You are in a hidden coalition with GERB and with the United Patriarchs. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u312	I'm making an observation, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u313	I'm graduating. And because Mr. Tsonev spoke something about pulling the language and defending the Bulgarian Muslims, Mr. Tsonev, you have never defended them, you have always stood on their backs, suppressed them to sit in this room. [[DRF lines]] And to benefit...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u314	Mr. Mirchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u315	...financial and corporate, like a corporate party. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u316	Mr. Tsonev, a personal explanation or a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u317	A line, Madam President, because a personal explanation of the grandson of one of the ideologists of the revival process will not be made! [[Applause from DPS.]] It's not about anything else, it's because the kids aren't responsible for what their fathers and grandfathers did. But when they speak untruths, I make a line to give a very parliamentary and gentlemanly opportunity to be answered. Here's the line. You either don't listen or you can't understand the DPS didn't offer 10 or 11 BGN because there was no debate that we promised ourselves political parties to change the model. I'll tell you why. Because 10, 11 or 12 leva. solves the problem of the DPS, but creates another problem - parties that have 1 million and over 1 million votes - will take more money than they need for their existence, and this creates discontent in people, and will make deposits of 20 million! Therefore, a model was to be developed not by one party, but by all parties! And the ruling majority has promised this debate because they are ruling the majority without their vote will not pass! No agreement can happen without them in this Parliament! That's why we didn't make an independent proposal because 10 BGN. It will solve our problem, but it will create another injustice! That's why! You didn't understand that! As for what we are still saying, please open your ears for the last time, if necessary, and your hearts, if necessary, and your thinking. To finance political parties, we need a debate and a model that will solve all problems without creating injustices! So we can convince the public. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , so it will receive an informed environment in which to make its decision! That's our offer! And we will be in this debate! Where is he?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u318	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u319	Here, now for 10 BGN. Or eight?! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u320	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u321	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Mirchev! I wish you would listen more carefully to what Mr. Zablyanov says. Alas, you didn't realize that Mr. Zablyanov fought and those like him fought against people like you! Only you seem to be living in some strange symbiosis and division within the BSP. Well, has BSP for 30 years stood up for everyone's rights, defended and nurtured the opposition, and the others, not just the likes, or just the yourselves, there you are, with your genetic burden? Look, there are a number of documents that condemn this behavior, condemn this regime, and these crimes against humanity against people and their rights and values. And when you talk about populism, let's be honest to the end. After the referendum, you submitted a proposal to reduce the party subsidy, and now political pluralism is at stake. Please leave it only in your party. When we talk about principles, let them be all about small, medium and extraparliamentary. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u322	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. To give Mr. Shopov his word, because there were two replicators from the DPS. Here's a line, Mr. Shopov. [[Radio, noise.]] Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u323	Mr. Mirchev, you know perfectly well here for the DPS is not the problem. We all have one problem, different problems, different views on the issues. Some are right, others are not, I don't know. It's a matter of democracy, of a referendum, but right now, it's a political weapon against the other party. This is for us. Since you're putting DPS in front of them and addressing them, Mr. Mirchev, tell the truth, because you're a man who knows very well. In Bulgaria from the time of the Senclair gangs, 1878, Turkish terrorism, Turkish rematchism and Turkish national interest have been financed by the former Metropolitan Metropolitan. And that's the answer. Don't you know, Mr. Mirchev, it's wonderful to interfere with today's perspective, today's political relations and relationships. DPS is funded and will be financed as a Turkish nationalist party... [[(Sighs: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u324	Mr. Shopov, I'm imposing on you under art. 156.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u325	Madam President, when I say this qualification, I'm always interrupted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u326	Mr. Shopov, let us be tolerant in our speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u327	Madam President, this is a political feature! [[DPS lines.]] This is our long-term vision, position of Ataka. [[Extreme lines from DPS.]] We've been articulating it, we've been developing it since 2005, and you have to give it a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u328	There are only Bulgarian parties in this room, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u329	...for that point of view! So, Mr. Mirchev, to you is my cue here the involvement of actors from 30 years ago, from processes that took place then...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u330	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u331	...is an attempt to cloud the truth, to be us Bulgarians, vexed, to feel guilty, to pour ashes on our heads... [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u332	Come on, get out of there!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u333	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Thank you. [[Reply from DPS: Punish him now!]] I punished him. Didn't you hear? "For the purposes of this Agreement, the Parties shall cooperate with each other on the [[Radio in DPS.]] Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u334	Madam President, honourable Members! I will answer only the things that I think are essentially, namely, about the debate. Debate we have never offered to drop the subsidy, but to reduce it. We never said a certain number to fall to. I'm talking about before when we wanted a debate. The current BGN 8 we offer are really a reduction of the previous situation, which was. Mr. Tsonev, in the debate it belongs here in the Chamber of the National Assembly. If there were enough proposals, perhaps the debate would be deeper on the relevant proposals and eventually come to some consensus option. The problem is that the only people who obviously want a debate in this case are from BSP and that is the only reason why we have a proposal between first and second readings. It's not right to talk about debates for another reason. When you decided to be in a coalition with GERB for the concrete proposal for the fall of subsidies, for 1 BGN, you gave up without any public debate, and in the Chamber, that is, they retreated when you offered the funding from the business almost without any restrictions. That is how without any debate you and GERB understand each other, and when we want a debate here, where it belongs, you say that there is no debate. To my colleague Shopov, I don't think there's anything I can say to your line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u335	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Any other speeches? You're welcome, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u336	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Madam President, I would like to remind you of your commitment to the Conference of Presidents two days ago, you said that you would now strictly follow the Rules and impose a little harsher penalties, and we declared that we would impose a little more self-control. I think that at this point you gave a speaker too much opportunity to insult a party, and you didn't take the floor away from him right away. This button is precisely why it is there and please use it more often. You yourself have convinced yourself that with the imposition of..... it is not possible..... to take a little more serious action, not to do again in the middle of the night Chairman's Councils. The demonstration that the Bulgarian psychiatric aid is on difficult days...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u337	No, no, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u338	...is also visible from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u339	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Go ahead, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u340	Thank you, Madam President. The DPS wants to give GERB an opportunity to prove that no backstage negotiations have been conducted, so we propose before the vote a name check. [[Private applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u341	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We're starting a roll call. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, I'm gonna have to ask you to be quiet. He who hears his name, let him speak louder. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Atanas Marinov Popdimitrov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anna Nikolaeva Slavova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Mirchev Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Nikolov Vergiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Petrov Taskov - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evdokia Slavchova Asenova - here Elena Stefanova Pesheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Georgiev Tzipov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lilyana Drumeva Radeva - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here One hundred thirty-seven so far. There's a quorum. Let's move on. Please, colleagues, take your seats! We're going to vote on art. 64. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 223 MPs: 98 against 119, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 64, supported by the Commission. Vote 224 MPs: for 103, against 120, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise, lines and applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u342	Mrs. Chairman, please re-vote procedure. There were colleagues who couldn't vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u343	Easy, guys, easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u344	Mr. Ivanov, you did a re-vote procedure. Please re-vote art. 64 "The text of the importer supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in this room, colleagues! Vote 225 MPs: for 104, against 120, abstention 1. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, let's be quiet! Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u345	Articles 65 to 97, including by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 65 to 97 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u346	Colleagues, are there any speeches on these articles? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer from art. Art. 65 to art. 97, supported by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please vote and be quiet! Please cancel the vote, there's a problem. We'll do it again. Colleagues, take your seats! I shall put to the vote the text by importer from art. 65 to 97 inclusive, supported by the Commission. They voted 201 MPs: 94 against 107 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, on behalf of the group, take 15 minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u347	Colleagues, please take your seats. We had a re-election procedure Mr. Ivanov didn't do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u348	Madam President, please, a re-vote procedure for members from 65 to 97 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u349	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer from art. Art. 65 to art. 97, supported by the Commission. Vote 212 MPs: 115 against 97 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u350	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, you know that the Law on Political Parties must have a certain size in order for the political system in our country to function. The issue of voting on art. 64 remained unsolved. In this regard, I propose that, colleagues, we return to art. 64 and a vote shall be taken on the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u351	It's a counterproposal. Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u352	Thank you, Madam President. My opposite suggestion is that there were two votes per article. 64. The Rules of Procedure in art. 71 is adamant: the vote is final. There is no way we can break the rules and go back to this article. Remember that zero is also a size.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u353	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Dimitrov made. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u354	Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mrs Karayancheva! I would like you to plead on what grounds do you put to the vote, and what do you put to the vote? I want a text from the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution so we know what we're doing. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the National Assembly is the institution which must show that the rules apply to all Bulgarian citizens, including the MPs, including the President, and the President of the National Assembly. From this point of view, Madam President, I ask you to state the basis on which you are making this proposal and putting it to the vote. In an alternative, we will most likely have the opportunity and right to assess both the actions of specific MPs and specific political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u355	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal and the House will decide. The rules do not run out of options. Here you go. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u356	Madam President, you have no reason to comply with a text of the Rules which allows the Rules to be violated. There can't be a third vote! You have been read the text which says that, at second reading, the text of the article or provision in question after the second vote has been definitively adopted. The colleague's proposal was to go back and vote a third time twice a member voted. You cannot submit this procedure because its approval would lead to a violation of the Rules of Procedure. A violation of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by changing it, and it is not a violation, but a change of the Rules. There is no way for this procedure to be put to the vote. There can't be a third vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u357	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. We've done it in front budgets. Go back, we've done these procedures. I'm voting on Mr. Dimitrov's proposal. [[DPS lines.]] We refer to the practice of past votes in the Assembly. They voted 211 MPs: 187 against 24 abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Karadayi. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u358	You are aware that there are no Rules for you. I'll do the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u359	There are rules! I'm aware of the regulations, Mr. Karadaye. I'm aware of that! The rules don't run out of situations in life. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u360	Mrs. Karayancheva, my procedure is in the way of leading you. You said you were aware of the regulations. Once again, we ask you: which member and what reason did you use to put this thing to the vote, not in the Rules or in the Constitution?! Please explain to me that you are aware of the Rules. Explain to the MPs and the people!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u362	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose a re-voting of the just-voted proposal made by Ms. Karayancheva because one of the colleagues has been mistaken in the vote. I've just been informed to correct their vote. Once again, I take advantage of my fellow Members, honourable Members, to remind you of art. 71 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, if we still hold on to parliamentaryism, the rule of law and the rules: The result of the vote shall be announced as in the voting of art. 64 The President, you have announced when the voting procedure or the outcome of the vote is challenged, what I am doing right now for the just wrong procedure vote, pay attention to what the President has written in the text as soon as it is finished ordering it to be repeated. The result of the re-voting shall be final. At the moment, Mrs. Karayancheva, or be President of the National Assembly and monitor compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or withdraw this position to stand there a person, MP, who will implement the Constitution, the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u363	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Colleagues, please be quiet! A re-election procedure that Mr. Karadaye just did. They voted 211 MPs: 187 against 24 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u364	Long live democracy! Long live parliamentaryism! It's a purposeful refusal, a conscious refusal. That's the end of the rules! It's an absolutely conscious violation! [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u365	Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u366	Under art. 64 there is a proposal made by the MP Cornelia Ninova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 64 words - BGN - BGN 1 - are replaced by BGN 8 - BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 64.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u367	Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the unsupported proposal for art. 64. Vote 184 MPs: 182 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 64 with the motion accepted. Vote 185 MPs: for 183, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u368	Under art. 98 there is a proposal made by the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98 the following changes shall be made: Art. 98 (1) The provision of Art. 98 (1) 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act for the Sustainability of the State Pension System does not apply to revenue from initial concession remuneration under the contract for the award of a concession for construction of the site. (2) Part of the funds received from an initial concession fee under the contract for the award of a concession for the construction of the site "Citizen's airport for public use Sofia "Societal public property' shall be spent as follows: 1. BDZ Holding EAD to repay temporary financial assistance in total of 196 000 000,0 thousand. lv. 2. For repayment of debts of BDZ Holding EAD to National Railway Infrastructure Company at total amount of 84 530.4 thousand. lv. 3. National Railway Infrastructure (Railway Infrastructure) is a total of 208 000 000,0 thousand. lv. (3) The funds referred to in paragraph 2 shall be planned in the central budget. (4) The funds referred to in paragraph 2 shall be made available by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications up to the amount of the requested. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 98.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u369	Statements? There are speeches. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u370	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand that emotions are great, but let's still stay calm, there's a little while while we finish the budget, so there'll probably be a few more speeches, that's normal. I would like to call on you not to support this proposal, which has been made by the Council of Ministers for art. 98 because this will be a great example of how another law can be broken by one law. Yesterday in all the speeches here, in this room there was a concern...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u371	Go on, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u372	Yesterday in this room, everyone who spoke on the proposals she had made for Bulgaria on the minimum amount of pension and on the possibility of reclaiming all pensions was present a fundamental argument against these proposals. And that was the question: where will funds be found to recalculate these pensions? The answer to this question lies in the so-called Silver Fund. This is exactly the kind of fund that is referred to in art. 98 The State Fund for the Sustainability of the State Pension System. Under the law adopted in 2008, all funds coming from concession fees from privatisation transactions should go to this pension support fund. Since 2008, when this fund was created, to this day only about three billion levs have been received, with about two and a half billion levs left in this fund at the end of 2008. You understand yourself that in more than 11 years this fund has not made any adjustments. Therefore, our desire to appeal to you, my fellow Members, that we do not really support this concession fee, which is to be collected by the airport operator Sofia to go where it belongs, namely in this fund. Every year in the last few years, with the proposals of the Council of Ministers in the State Budget Act, these funds have moved to the state budget, to the central budget. However, their place is in the Silver Fund to support the pensions of our mothers and fathers. I therefore ask that we do not support this proposal, including not support the proposal of our colleagues from the DPS, because this proposal essentially balances these funds from the initial concession fee for Sofia Airport in Holding BDZ and at the National Railway Infrastructure Company. But, in fact, these funds can be directed, if necessary, or funds, if they are necessary for Holding BDZ and National Railway Infrastructure Company, can be directed at other paragraphs and not at the expense of the pension system funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u373	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. I don't see any other comments. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 153 MPs: for 4, against 109, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 98 supported by the Commission. Vote 165 MPs: 109, against 53, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u374	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99, as in para. 4 the words "guin' are replaced by "Includes the persons concerned'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 100: Art. 100. (1) With effect from 1 January 2020, the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology (NIMH) shall apply a delegated budget and the Director-General shall be a secondary authorising officer with a budget which shall: 1. make compensated changes to the profit and loss plan, informing the chief authorising officer by budget thereof; 2. dispose of the funds of the NIMH; 3. determine the number and number of staff in the NIMH; 4. determine the individual remuneration of staff within the framework of the established expenditure on the NIMH budget for the corresponding budget year. (2) The excess found at the end of the year of the receipts over payments under the NIMH budget shall be included in its budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u375	Statements? There are no speeches. I will put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer for art. 99 with the proposed text for replacement by the Commission; and the version of art. 100, proposed by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 104 against 48 abstentions 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u376	Under art. 101 has a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission generally supports the proposal as para. 3 is reflected in § 21. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer which is reflected in § 21. The Commission shall propose the following version for art. 101: Art. 101. The Council of Ministers shall, by the order of art. 109, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. for 2020 to finance the extension of access and coverage in compulsory pre-school education of children aged 4 years and to support the payment by parents of fees under art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 2 of the Preschool and School Education Act. 'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u377	Thank you. Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 101, the name of the division supported by the Commission and the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: 109, against 45, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u378	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, i.e. 2 concerning para. 14, p. 1 the word "no' is replaced by "no', with the exception of "no'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u379	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 with the proposal to replace the text of the Commission and the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 3. Vote 167 MPs: 108, against 56, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u380	Paragraph 4 "Proposition of the People's Representative Aleksandar Sabanov." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ In the Law on Internal Audit in the Public Sector (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 para. 3 is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 a new sentence is created second: "In the composition of the audit committees the officials of art. 7, para. 1 of the Public Procurement Act and the internal auditors from the relevant organisations. Second sentence of the previous sentence becomes the third sentence; (bb) c. 3 the words "more than two committees' shall be replaced by another audit committee, including an organisation under para. the following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Regulation (EC) No 65/2004): (b) in para. 9 the members of the Audit Committee shall be added, after the words.... including in the organizations under 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 19 of 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 31. Six 5. In the annex to art. 12, para. 2, p. 5, row No 7 is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u381	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4. Vote 161 MPs: 106, against 48, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u382	According to § 5 "Proposition of the National Representative Krastina Taskova: The following amendment shall be added to the Law on pre-school and school education: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171, para. 3 of the Law on pre-school and school education after the words the Council of Ministers added the words as the monthly scholarship for excellent success could not be less than 50 BGN. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Paragraphs 6 to 8 are, inter alia, by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u383	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. First, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the National Representative Krastina Taskova. Please vote. Vote 162 MPs: 50, against 59, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8, supported by the Commission. Vote 164 MPs: 113, against 49, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u384	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye: "Paragraph 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to Decompose." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 and § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u385	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. First, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported text of the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: for 2, against 100, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for paragraphs 9, 10 and 11, supported by the Commission. Vote 161 MPs: 110 against 50, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u386	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 12: (a) To be created t. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "Standing" is added for medicinal products included in the Positive List under art. 262 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid with funds from the budget of the NHIF, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes, as well as. 2. The creation of para. 3: The tax rate for meat, milk, eggs, flour and food products of flour is 5 per cent. b) the current text becomes t. 2 of § 12. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u387	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please vote. Vote 174 MPs: for 70, against 58, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the texts of the importer for paragraphs 12 and 13, supported by the Commission. They voted 177 MPs: for 106, against 71, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u388	Proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova: A new § 13a is set up in the implementing provisions: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the Family Aid Act for children in art. 6, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "One-time assistance is paid in case the mother is 18 years old and has completed secondary education. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs: A new § 13b shall be set up in the implementing provisions with the following content: ...13b........................................................................... In the Family Aid Act, art. 4a is amended as follows: Art. 4a. (1) Right to family benefits under art. 2, para. 3, p. 2 has every child raised in the country, regardless of the income of the family. (2) The amount of family benefits under art. 2, para. 3, p. 2 is defined annually in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year in question, but cannot be less than the previous year. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova: A new Paragraph 13b shall be established in the implementing provisions: supposed to be in line with the requirements of point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in Art. 81 After the words "Children's gardens" the word "not" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u389	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova for the creation of a new § 13a. They voted 175 MPs: 25 against 25, 125 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs to create a new § 13b. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 170 MPs: 31, Against 9, abstention 130. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote a third proposal, not supported by the Commission, to the MP Krastina Taskova for the creation of a new § 13b, with the content presented to you. They voted 137 MPs: for 10, against 6, abstention 121. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u390	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u391	Are there any speeches? Colleagues, it is already difficult for me to navigate and listen to the rapporteur, and I do not hear what we are voting on. I'll stop until there's a little quiet in the room. I'm stopping. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any statements under § 14? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, supported by the Commission. Vote 173 MPs: 105, against 62, abstention 6. [[Noise and lines.]] The motion is accepted. Please do not rush to present the next text, because I will not hear from you. [[Noise and lines.]] Please continue with the next text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u392	Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group: "2." § 14a "14f" shall be created: ............. 14a.......................................................................... In the Labour Code in art. 261 words... the amounts set by the Council of Ministers... are replaced by.35 per cent for each working night hour or part thereof............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ §14b. The law on personal income taxes makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created t. 30: 30. income from employment of persons not over 26 years of age. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1 the colon after the words. The text shall be deleted by the end of the subparagraph and replaced by BGN 6000. for any minor child; (b) the creation of para. 10: The monthly tax base under art. 42, para. 2 for employment benefits of beneficiaries of child tax relief is reduced by 500 BGN. for each child................ for every child............................. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 10. (b) para. 4 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be determined on the monthly tax base under para. 3 according to the following table: by attached table. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 3 words multiplied by tax rate 10 per cent shall be replaced by a wager according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 3 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall bet according to the table referred to in Article 1. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. The fourth sentence, second sentence, shall be added to the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be multiplied by the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: The rate of income tax under art. Art. 37 and Art. 38, para. 1, 5, 10, 12, 14 and 15 is according to the table under art. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 2 the number "s' is replaced by "seven' and, at the end of the sentence, after the word "years', a comma shall be placed and added to "seven' as well as for the incomes under art. 38, para. 11 and 13 (c) para. 3 and 4 are canceled. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: The amount of tax on the annual tax base for income from business, for rent income or other provision for the use of rights or property, income from other sources under art. 35 as well as on the common annual tax base under art. 17 shall be determined according to the following table: (b) the creation of para. 9.. 11: In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42, para. 3. (10) If the person has not received employment benefits, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by BGN 6000 for any minor, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. (11) The tax paid for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts a tax on non-payments and annual contributions, interest shall be due under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims. § 14c. In the Law on Family Aid for Children (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2, p. 6 after the word, the intuitive is a comma and is added, second, third and fourth. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The amount of aid under para. 1 for the second and/or third child of parents provided 24 months before and at the time of birth of the child shall not be less than 10 times the minimum wage for each child per year and shall be determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. (b) The current para. 3 " 9" became respectively. 4... 10. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10a The following amendments and additions shall be made: (a) in para. 1 after the word, the reference is a comma and is added, second, third and fourth. (b) in para. 7 the following amendments and additions are made: - in t. 1 after the word "School', a school is added or no training is started. - in t. 2 after the word "supplied', a comma shall be added and a second, third or fourth is added. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, t. 6 after the word, the corresponding is a comma and is added, second, third and fourth. § 14 In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, b. The words "Children's cribs, children's kitchens, kindergartens and the comma after them are deleted. 2. In the name of Section III, in Chapter 3, the words "Children's nursery, kindergartens' and the comma after them are deleted. 3. Art. 81 is canceled. § 14e. In the Public Finance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 10 A sentence is created second: The Mayor of the Region or City Hall is a secondary authorising officer with a budget for the activities of the region or town hall and implements a delegated budget, under conditions and in accordance with a regulation of the Municipal Council, according to methodical instructions of the Minister of Finance. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1, t. 1 is created b. (f) one fifth of the amount of taxes paid on the income of natural persons by persons with permanent address in the territory of the municipality concerned; (g) one tenth of the amount of the value added tax imported from retail outlets registered in the territory of the municipality concerned. 14f. In the Law on Political Parties (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 t. Four is canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1, t. 2 after the word "traders', a point and a comma shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 4 the words "juridical persons and sole traders" and the comma after them are deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 2 t. 4 is repealed; (b) para. 3 and 4 are cancelled. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u393	Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u394	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In § 14 "from 14a to 14f, I will present briefly our proposals, which I think are extremely reasonable. It is necessary for each of you to think that it is high time we really put in place such measures and incentives for the active, young and working people in Bulgaria who have ultimately decided to stay here. The first proposal under § 14a relates to the rate of night work. Last year on this platform, right during a budget vote, I paid attention because there are people between you who protect the people of the Ministry of Health. There are many health workers who protect people who work for labor security, for public order security. All these people work nights, and there are over 400,000 people. Since the night's work since 2007 has not been adjusted and the rate for this work is 25 cents, it is high time we all thought about it and introduced in the Labour Code an amendment, namely in art. 261 in the manner in which the texts on overtime are inserted, in art. 262 in the same way, the rate for working nights to increase by 35%. That's our offer. I think it is reasonable for all those 400,000 people who are working this harmful, nocturnal work, and we have to adopt a decision to give them some decent income for this health-threatening work. Our other proposals are indeed related to young people and the policy of supporting young people. It is high time to think about tax preferences and one of the proposals we make is in the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, namely in any family that raises a child who works and imports into the insurance system, will remain BGN 50 each month. in the family, deducted from the tax base. We basically introduce it as a kind of non-taxable minimum for each working family. The other proposals we make under § 14 are also related to dropping the fees for kindergartens listed in art. 81 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, what you have proposed in art. 101 of the current budget to cover 4 years of preschool age and in any way to support fees discriminates against other children who attend kindergarten. I think our proposal is much more sensible. Such a proposal has also been made by another parliamentary group, and I hope that all of us will unite around the opinion, all the parents whose children attend kindergartens, will be exempt from this fee. I think we can afford it because the amount needed for this measure amounts to about 66 million. [[Loud noise.]] I won't talk about other proposals, you know them well and you're familiar. I hope you will support us because what the state currently offers as tax preferences for working parents with children of 20 BGN does not in any way show the state's support for them. Another of our proposals is about dropping taxation for all young people who are working and who are not 26 years old. [[Loud noise.]] I see that you are not interested in our proposals in this House, but I hope that at some point you will think wisely about these measures because they are for the young people of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u395	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 168 MPs: for 67, against 26, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u396	Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 words which include a centralised stage and a decentralised stage shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. the first sentence of the third sentence is deleted; (b) in para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of the words "dates' is replaced by "dates' and the words "centralised stage' shall be replaced by the "contest' and the date shall not be earlier than 7 days after the reference period and the third sentence shall be deleted. 3. Article 10e is amended as follows: Art. 10e. (1) The competition committee shall conduct the contest in the announced manner, assessing the professional and business qualities of the candidates and qualifying from first to third place the most successful winners of the competition. Minutes shall be drawn up for the contest. The minutes and all documents of the qualified candidates shall be submitted to the appointing authority within 10 days of the conduct of the contest. (2) The assessment of the committee and the ranking of candidates shall not be subject to judicial review. (3) The candidates participating in the contest held who are not ranked first may object to the appointing authority within 7 days of receipt of the Commission's minutes. On the basis of the objections, the appointing authority shall terminate the competition procedure and schedule a new contest. The decision of the appointing authority shall not be subject to judicial review. (4) Within 14 days of the submission of the minutes under para. 1 The appointing authority shall issue an order for the appointment of the applicant, which shall be ranked first. Where access to classified information is required for taking up the post, the designation act shall be issued within 14 days of receipt of the access authorisation. (5) If the appointed servant does not take office or take an oath pursuant to art. 14 The appointing authority shall issue an act appointing the next rated candidate. (6) Alinea 5 may also apply in cases where, within one year, the job employed on the basis of a competition position or other position with the same functions is dismissed. 4. Article 10f is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 words "including the tests under art. 10d, para. 1 and 2 and the location of the centralized stage (s) shall be deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 6 the words successfully pass the test under art. 10d, para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (b) in para. 7 words as well as when the test under art. 10d, para. 1 has not been successfully supported is deleted. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 para. 2 is amended as follows: The Office of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 5 is repealed; (b) in para. 6 the words "Alinei 1 " 5 " are replaced by "Alinei 1 " 4 ". 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. the second sentence is deleted. Dear Mr. President, I would like to make the following editorial amendment: in § 15 to be created a new paragraph 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9a, para. 2 the word "centralised" shall be deleted. The remaining points shall be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u397	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendments that have just been made for the proposed new § 15. Vote 162 MPs: 109, against 22, abstention 31. The proposal for editorial amendments has been adopted. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 15 under the Commission Report, plus the editorial amendments that we have just adopted. They voted 167 MPs: 109, against 23, abstention 35. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u398	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Alexander Sabanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Public Enterprises (DV, No. (c) Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision (e.g. Nine is canceled. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In art. 47, para. 1 is created t. 12: ..12. use a video surveillance and control system that meets the requirements of art. 476, in the case of production and/or storage of: (a) ethyl alcohol; (b) tobacco products. 2. In art. 47b: (a) in para. 1 after the words. The following shall be added to the list: (b) the creation of para. 4a and 4b: ,,(4a) B tax warehouses in cases under art. 47, para. 1, t. 12, except for the video cameras under para. 3 video cameras shall also be installed at all locations designated for the entry or exit of individuals from the site. (4b) Video cameras under para. 4a must meet the requirements of para. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Under art. 18 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Valeri Simeonov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up paragraphs 18 and 19: .............................................................................. In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be added; (b) in para. The second sentence is created: The register is carried out by the mayors of municipalities or by the officials who are appointed by them in the cases under art. 113, para. 2. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: Hotels in guest rooms, guest suites and guest houses may also carry out a person who is not a trader within the meaning of the Commercial Law, including where they are part of his dwelling in a residential building. In these cases, guest rooms and guest suites, if not categorized, shall be registered according to the terms and conditions laid down by the ordinance under art. 121, para. 5. (b) the creation of para. 3: Online, including via an electronic platform connecting users of tourist services and the persons providing them, tourist services may only be offered for accommodation or registered accommodation. (c) the creation of para. 4. For accommodations offered via an electronic platform connecting users of tourist services and persons providing them, an electronic payment option shall be provided by electronic means via the electronic platform. (d) the creation of para. 5. Under an agreement between public authorities/municipals and persons engaged in an intermediary activity for the online supply of tourist services, including through an electronic platform, it may be possible for persons to provide information relating to the tourist services provided and/or to collect amounts for public claims, including for remuneration. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 176 is created. 5, 6 and 7: The Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him shall exercise control of compliance with the requirements of art. 113, para. 3 and imposes fines and property penalties under art. 231. (6) In case of failure of art. 113, para. 3 of the person conducting an intermediary activity for the online supply of tourist services, including through an electronic platform, regardless of the intended fines and penalty payments, the Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him shall request the President of the Sofia Regional Court to order all undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services to suspend access to the relevant websites in the event of a first infringement within 14 days and in the event of a subsequent infringement within 30 days. The President of the Sofia District Court or the Vice-President appointed by him shall rule on the request within 72 hours of his entry and may amend proposals by the Minister of Tourism in the event of a first infringement. The order issued by the court shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism on the day of its receipt. Undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall be obliged to suspend access to the relevant websites within 24 hours of publication of the order of the court. (7) The authorities referred to in art. 171, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 shall notify the Minister of Tourism in cases of infringements under Article 4. 231, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. A new article shall be created. 231: Art. 231. (1) Person who allows inclusion in an electronic platform of an unlisted tourist site under art. 3, para. 2, p. 1 supplier 3 or unregistered tourist site under art. Paragraph 113. 2, is punished with a fine of 500 to 5000 BGN. For individuals who are not traders, or with a penalty of 1000 to 10 000 BGN. For sole traders and legal entities. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the fine is from 5000 to 8000 BGN and the charge is from 10 000 to 15 000 BGN. "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) Within (2) Within three months of the entry into force of the ordinance under para. 1 persons bring their activities into line with the Tourism Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u399	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 16, 17, 18 and 19 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 157 MPs: 111, against 40, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u400	Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Apostolov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law on the People with Disabilities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 70, p. 5 after the word "indemnity" is added "or pension for military service." The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. (1) Within one month of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal the Council of Ministers shall adopt a programme for the construction, construction, upgrade and reconstruction of nursery, kindergartens and schools for the period 2020 - 2022, with an indicative budget for 2020 to 70 million. lv. (2) Within two months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal, the Council of Ministers shall take the necessary action, including through the exercise of its right to legislative initiative, to introduce compulsory pre-school education of children aged 4 years and to assist the payment of fees by the parents under art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 2 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 22, and the words shall be replaced by the importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2020, with the exception of § 14, 15 and 21, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u401	Procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u402	Mr. Chairman, I ask that the paragraphs that have been reported put them to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u403	The final paragraphs? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] Okay, I get it. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20 with a text according to the Commission report. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u404	Dear Mr President, since I see that there is some misunderstanding in this House, I have made a proposal that the paragraphs which have been reported at the same time be put to the vote separately. I do not believe that this should be subject to a special vote from the House, because it is normal practice to vote the paragraphs separately, in addition to voting them anbloc. So please start voting separately from § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u405	I understood you, Mrs. Stoyanova, and I was starting to vote § 20. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 20 with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 133 MPs: 42, against 4, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the Commission's proposal to create a new § 21. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a new § 21 with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: 120, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 22, with the proposal to replace the text made by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 109, against 22, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 23, supported by the Commission. Vote 163 MPs: 114, against 32, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17, supported by the Commission, which shall become § 24. Vote 163 MPs: 114, against 32, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u406	Annex to art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the Annex to art. 50. I would like to make an editorial correction in the sentence: "A4" is an additional component of the total matching subsidy from the central budget for the specific municipality with access. The title "A4" is to become "A5."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-05.u407	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal for editorial amendments to the Annex to art. 50. Vote 159 MPs: 109, against 34, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the annex to art. 50 with the editorial amendments already adopted. Vote 157 MPs: 111, against 36, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The second vote of the State Budget Act ended with this. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9.00 on 6 December 2019 under the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
