ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for April 10, 2019: "1." Abort the authority of the Member of the National Assembly of the People's Republic of Bulgaria resigned from the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev on 9 April 2019. 2. Election of a Vice-President in charge of the management of the investment activity and Vice-President in charge of the management of the Financial Supervision Commission. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 22 March 2019. 3. First vote on a bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2019. 4. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2018. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media on 28 March 2019. 5. Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the statement of the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey Chavusoglu for Turkish intervention in the adoption of the Religions Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Volen Siderov, Valeri Simeonov and Iskren Veselinov were introduced on 3 April 2019. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 11 April 2019 7. Draft Law on the ratification of an Administrative and Technical Agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in relation to violations of road traffic rules. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 April 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 11 April 2019 8. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2017 and a report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January Point 3 for Thursday, 11 April 2019 9. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2018. Importer is the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, on 29 March 2019. Point 4 for Thursday, 11 April 2019 10. Hearing of the Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the Development of the Process of liberalization of the electricity market.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2019, adopted at first vote on 20 March 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 12 April 2019 12. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. They voted 143 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 4. The motion is accepted. Drafts and draft decisions for decisions from 3 to 9 April 2019: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers is the importer. The Committee on Defence has been led by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Law on Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports, importer is Alexander Koychev Ivanov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A bill to amend and supplement the Civil Registration Act, importers are Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft decision for declaring Veliko Tarnovo the historic and spiritual capital of Bulgaria. The importer is Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Draft decision on early termination of the relations of Plamen Georgiev Dimitrov as Chairman and member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and to the Committee for Legal Affairs. Draft decision for early termination of the relations of Anton Tomov Slavchev as Vice-President and member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and to the Committee for Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the activity of providing services. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill for ratification of acts at the Second Emergency Congress of the Universal Postal Union. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "National Security" for 2018 and Project Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. I will present two more messages to your attention: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage and residence of soldiers from the armed forces of Romania, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Armenia and Ukraine with supporting and providing equipment for participation in military-police training. The study will be held in the area of the Bulgarian-American facility Training polygon "New Village" for the period from 13 to 17 May 2019 inclusive. The same is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for the Preparation of the Defence Headquarters, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence in 2019 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, to another State or organisation, armed forces. The notification was received on 8 April 2019, i.e. No 903 09 17 and granted to the Defence Committee. Last message: On 9 April 2019 the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 4 of 9 April 2019 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 15/2018. By its judgment, the Court declared the provisions of Article unconstitutional. 22 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and Art. 9, para. 4th sentence, second and second. 5th sentence second of the Customs Act. Colleagues, I'll read you a CEC decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 87-NS, Sofia, 7 April 2019 concerning: announcement of Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as MP from the 15th Election Region of Plevenski, in the 44th National Assembly By Decision No 5148-NS of 6 December 2018, the Central Election Commission announced Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of political party GERB, from the fifteenth election district of Plevenski, for the time Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska served as Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria. With an I.V. letter. No НС-02-5 from 5 April 2019 the CEC received a certified copy of a decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted on 5 April 2019 with which Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska was released as Minister of Justice. There's been an I.V. application. No. NS-10-5 of 5 April 2019 by Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska, saying that he does not wish to be declared a member of parliament from the list of PP GERB from the Fifteenth Election Region. In view of the application submitted by Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska, which is under No 2 of the list of PP GERB, and the fact that the next of the list of PP GERB is Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva, which is No 5 of the list of PP GERB, the Central Election Commission accepts that it should replace the vacant permanent mandate of Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski. Since Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva has already been declared a representative of the National Assembly for the time during which Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska performs the functions of Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria, only the reason on which she has been declared elected as a Member of the National Assembly should be amended, namely art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED He declared Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva, EGN..., as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB, from the 15th election district of Plevenski. And another decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 102-NS, 8 April 2019 on the announcement of Lilyana Drumeva Radeva as MP in the Twenty-third Election Region "Sofia," in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No NSA-02-5 of 5 April 2019 of the CEC received a certified copy of a decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted on 5 April 2019, with which on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 6 and art. 108 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria People's Representative Danail Dimitrov Kirilov from the twenty-third electoral district of Sofia, raised by GERB party, was elected Minister of Justice. In accordance with art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria MP elected as Minister interrupts his credentials for the time during which he is Minister, replacing him accordingly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code relating to CEC Decision No 101-NS of 8 April 2019 HAS DECIDED Announcing as a MP from the Twenty-third Election Region of Sofia, Lilyana Drumeva Radeva, EGN..., under No. 14 of the list of GERB party, for the time during which Danail Dimitrov Kirilov served as Minister of Justice. Please invite the new MPs to the House. Colleagues, please stand up for taking the oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Come to the stand and repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u2	LILIANA RADEVA: I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause. Awesome.]] Let's wait for the room to calm down. Colleagues, please take your seats! Please, sit down. We move on to the first item on our agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Retire from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev on 9 April 2019. I will read you the application from Mr. Dobrev: "Admission' By Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, MP from the Twenty-nineth Election Region Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision. I will also read you the draft decision: It's a service project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev as MP from the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Markov, come in. We'll take your time if you can't find the map. Please take Mr. Markov's time into account. Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u3	Dear colleagues! Perhaps in this Chamber, I am most aware of a decision by the Constitutional Court, which I do not agree with quite, but it is mandatory for all: when a Member of the National Assembly is voted out, we have no other option but to vote it on the so-called bound competence. We just have to do it. Despite this decision of the Constitutional Court, I will benefit from the direct action of the Bulgarian Constitution, which obliges me to vote on my conscience, which is why I will not vote for this resignation of Delyan Dobrev. I saw it this morning on bTV. I have 45 years of legal internship, of which 9 years as constitutional judge, 5 years as professor of administrative law. Once upon a time, we studied a textbook by Professor Vakarelski in criminology, where, when he turns the pages, we see criminogenic types, that is, those for which you can say without trial and sentence: this one seems to be a criminal. This morning on the broadcast of Delyan Dobrev, I saw that he was a wonderful boy with a awake and honest look that felt politically murdered. That's the second time I've said that. And that is why I will not vote on this resignation. The other option is: here, in the Chamber, by returning the comrades and comrades from BSP, because in their times it was the Law on the Ownership of Citizens, we all, as politically engaged people who are MPs and all Bulgarian citizens, should we decide to return the LSG? Since there are many young MPs, they wonder what LSG is. This is the Law on Citizens' Property. We're entering, 30 years after November 10th, only one residence in the family, just one. If you have a second, you can only inherit. When you get it, you have to transfer it to your children on a two-year period. If you don't have children, you get divorced in poor Bulgaria, which no longer has marriages. Fuck the privacy of private property! Fuck the business free initiative... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u4	Mr. Markov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u5	Down with the real estate market! Down with the real estate market! Down with the free negotiation! Long live the ZCG! Viva 60 square feet! If Mitko Glauchev wants to sell you his apartment, through the Municipality of Triaditsa, we should name it Blagoevski Ravisov and go back to communism! It's good, it's already done with these apartments. Do the MPs live in huts?! What's with the sadism?! I will vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision to terminate the mandate of the MP Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev. They voted 106 MPs: 96, against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: CROSS OF A DEPARTMENT-PRESENTANT, THE REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE INVESTICIATION. AND THE REPRESENTATIVE-ADOR, THE REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE FINANCIAL REPRESENTATION COMMISSION. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 22 March 2019. I will read to you the Rules for the election of a candidate for a vice-president, head of management in the Financial Supervision Commission, by the National Assembly: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 6. A candidate who has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If a candidate does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for the position concerned. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Please, first of all, for a procedure to put to the vote the admission in the Chamber of: Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Ms. Maria Filipova, Vice-President, Head of the Board of Directors at the CFF, and Mrs. Iliana Hristova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Please continue, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u9	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on hearing the proposed candidates for vice-presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission: Maria Asenova Filipova for Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the Investment Activity and Iliana Ilieva Hristova for Vice-President of the Board of Directors of Insurance Supervision At an open meeting held on 4 April 2019 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission under Section IV of the rules of procedure adopted for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Investment Activity and of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Budget and Finance Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that, evidently from the documents submitted by the candidates, the same meet the requirements of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for Members and should be allowed to be heard. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that no documents establishing belonging to the authorities under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. With regard to Mrs. Maria Filipova, the opinion is that according to art. 26, para. 4 of the above law, persons born after 16 July 1973 are not subject to verification. The candidates of Mrs. Maria Filipova and Mrs. Iliana Hristova were presented by the rapporteur of the proposals Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. He briefed the Committee on Budget and Finance on the education, professional experience and personal qualities of each of the candidates, concluding that both candidates have the necessary education, professional experience and public reputation for taking up the respective position as Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission and expressed confidence that they will contribute to the further development and continuation of the policy of strengthening the regulatory authority. Following the submission of the applications, the concepts of their activities were presented in the Financial Supervision Commission. First, Mrs. Maria Filipova presented her concept as a candidate for Vice-President, head of management. At the beginning of her exhibition, Mrs. Filipova pointed out that her concept of management activities is in line with the Financial Supervision Commission's strategic concept of development. In this sense, she stressed that her efforts to develop the sector will be aimed at increasing the liquidity of the capital market, ensuring the possibility of financing new companies through it, accelerating the growth of the economy in the medium term and improving Bulgaria's image of the international map of the regulatory authorities in the non-banking financial sector, as well as on Bulgaria's good positioning of the European map. During her exhibition Mrs. Filipova pointed out three problematic areas on which she will focus her efforts, namely: - Reduction of investments in Bulgaria and, above all, withdrawal of investors against other countries in Central and Eastern Europe. An element in the current situation is the lack of innovative instruments to attract investment companies, as well as mechanisms to attract investment through the stock exchange. - The existence of an investment resource within the country, mainly in pension and insurance companies, but due to low liquidity and regulatory constraints is invested outside our country. - Lack of sufficient financial literacy. Its concept presents three main areas of development in view of these problematic areas. 1. Regulatory activity and control: improving existing and implementing new measures to ensure active control by the Financial Supervision Commission and to activate awareness of self-control in supervised entities in the capital market, namely: - The focus will be on risk-based supervision, as well as on carrying out coordinated supervision in situations where other institutions are involved, providing for continuation of stress tests in supervised entities in order to prevent possible problems, focus on control of investment firms and investment services companies. - Timely information to the public about the envisaged changes in regulatory policy and supervision and adopted supervisory practices; strengthening dialogue with competent authorities, institutions, branch organisations and stakeholders, conducting explanatory campaigns to the different supervised groups; preparation and implementation of practices and guidelines for the single application of legislation, as well as identifying and making public the most common gaps in the preparation of documents in relation to licensing and authorisation regimes within the competence of the Financial Supervision Commission. - Work on creating new approaches in the legal framework for companies to be public based on the Strategy for the Development of the Capital Market in Bulgaria, including activities to harmonise the regulations with the European legal framework, as well as resolving existing regulatory contradictions. - In relation to communication, the existing communication flows from the Financial Supervision Commission to supervised persons and consumers in Bulgaria should be audited. The audit will identify deficiencies in the communication regime and will take the necessary action with regard to the quality of services and products offered in the investment sector. The development of the Bulgarian capital market includes active communication with the business, holding meetings and creating joint strategies and evaluating good business practices to be included in the regulatory framework for regulation of the sector. 2. Administrative burden on capital markets. Process optimization and digitalization measures include: - Analysis of proposals for optimization by supervised entities towards new regulations in order to reduce administrative burdens, especially in the part with newly adopted regulations in line with European legislation, but also with opportunities to reduce the required administrative deadlines. - Active actions supporting innovation in the non-banking financial sector, promoting the involvement of the Financial Supervision Commission in these processes, namely by consulting market participants to explore innovative solutions to improve market efficiency and search for technological solutions aimed at reducing costs and expanding access to financial products and services. - Analysis and optimization of business processes and respectively clarification and indication of which specific processes can be digitized in the form of electronic services. In the medium term, the aim is to expand electronic interaction by building a single portal for submission of information from public companies simultaneously to the Financial Supervision Commission, the Central Depository, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the public and vice versa, with the final result of reducing the administrative burden. 3. International cooperation and exchange of good practices and international positioning of Bulgaria in order to attract new investors and work teams under European programs for development of capital markets in the EU. Mrs. Filipova's efforts will be directed towards close cooperation with the European Supervisory Authorities to analyse the best practices of other European countries in synchronising EU policies with existing local legislation and norms; participation of the Financial Supervision Commission's team in regular meetings at international level, mainly through digital communication channels, in order to ensure the daily cooperation of a larger number of employees in a discussion regime on current cases; work on projects at international level with a view to knowing current trends, risks and opportunities for developing capital markets in the form of effective practices of other countries; increased financial literacy through specialised education in educational institutions concerning capital markets. A key point is communication with the media to create interest in capital markets and information concerning exchanges. In conclusion, Mrs. Filipova pointed out that she will have a commitment to work in cooperation and communication with the branch organizations to achieve the most important final result - improving Bulgaria's image as a place for good investments, causing the interest of private investors. The next candidate, who presented her concept, was Mrs. Iliana Hristova, a candidate for vice-president, head of management. By thanking for the nomination, Mrs. Hristova presented her concept of her future activities in the Financial Supervision Commission. She pointed out that the insurance sector is a sector of national importance. According to her, in view of the serious crisis situations in the past year with the case, Olympik and with the proposal, the sector is still in a serious turbulence situation. In order to achieve the ultimate goal of increasing the confidence of citizens in state control, Mrs. Hristova outlined four main directions in her work, namely: crisis prevention, control, communication and digitalisation. With regard to the first area of action, it is necessary to provide for the risks in order to prepare in advance the relevant strategies for overcoming them. In this way, the weak points will be turned into strengths and problems into challenges. According to Mrs. Hristova, because of the mandatory nature of certain types of insurance, insured persons are not well informed enough about what they pay for, what their commitments, responsibilities and/or rights are and therefore any information outside the norm appears to be the first reason for a situation that could lead to a crisis. In this context, it proposes to provide sufficient types and quantity of platforms to enable users of services to be better informed. With regard to the second area of action, Mrs. Hristova pointed out that it should be improved through remote supervision, which is based on periodic inquiries, reports of the insurers, re-insurers, insurance groups, insurance brokers and the Guarantee Fund, as well as the required additional information on certain areas of their activity. It is the remote supervision that is at the heart of the subsequent active control carried out by on-the-spot checks. According to it, control and verification of the existence or absence of circumstances relating to a threat to national security relating to the danger to the economic and financial security of the State should be strengthened. During the checks, an analysis will be made on the adequacy of the reserve for claims made but outstanding under Decree No 53 against the information reported by the insurers in the Single Risk Assessment, Management and Control System in respect of the insurance of the motorists. The process of initial registration of claims in the Single Risk Assessment, Management and Control System will be followed in relation to the amount of the initial insurance reserve allocated to drivers. A check will be carried out on the investments and claims of the insurers, claims made and claims refused during the period of scope of the check, insurance contracts will be dealt with through insurance contracts of liability of the motorists and the management system. In addition to the two control measures presented, the attention should be paid, according to Mrs. Hristova, to two other measures, namely: carrying out checks on insurance intermediaries and full checks on insurance brokers, as well as administrative criminal activity and checks on complaints received, alerts, inquiries by insurance users. With regard to the third major area of action, Mrs. Hristova pointed out that the improvement of the activity in this area will take place through: - Measures/actions to reduce the number of uninsured motor vehicles by organising monthly thematic road inspection campaigns on the availability of compulsory insurance. - Creating a Center for Expertise in the form of a platform, both digital and live discussion, in order to collect different opinions, perspectives and perspectives on the necessary regulations, control and changes in the insurance sector. As far as the last fourth area of action is concerned, Mrs. Hristova noted that after optimization of the processes there is a digitalization that will ensure constant connectivity. Digitalization gives not only speed, but also serious visibility and transparency in information, and here it is essential not to lose the human element and contact with supervised entities. In this regard, it is very important that good practice is applied in line with the needs of end-users and the objectives of the Financial Supervision Commission. At the end of her exhibition, Mrs. Hristova noted that the policy and efforts of the Commission for Financial Supervision in the Insurance Sector should continue to be focused on overcoming the consequences of the bankruptcy of the Cypriot insurance carrier Olympik and monitoring over the National Bureau of Bulgarian Motor Insurance Insurance, and strengthening the compensation mechanisms in the Bulgarian insurance system. According to her, the public discussion has shown that the project for the system "bonus-malus" needs improvement in order to achieve its objectives, namely: on the one hand, for the formation of the individual premium for insurance...................................................................................................................................................... In cooperation with the other two institutions empowered to adopt the relevant regulation, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, new editorials of the Ordinance shall be made and regulatory changes shall be assessed to meet public expectations and to achieve the strategic objectives of the system. According to T. 5 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure with regard to candidates no questions and opinions were raised by the Members of the National Assembly. According to T. 6 of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure Ms. Menda Stoyanova informs the Members of the National Assembly that no opinions and questions have been received from the persons under art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly regarding the nominations of Ms. Maria Filipova and Mrs. Iliana Hristova. The Committee on Budget and Finance found that the proposed candidates met the legal requirements for taking up the post of Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission. The expertise, administrative and management experience gained by the proposed candidates, as well as the qualifications they acquired, are positive prerequisites for implementing the competent and responsible management of the Financial Supervision Commission. On the basis of the hearing held, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the proposed nominations of Maria Asenova Filipova as Vice-President of the Board of Directors of the Investment Activity and of Iliana Ilieva Hristova as Vice-President of the Management Board. I'll introduce you to them: Project! DECISION on the election of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 5, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 6, para. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act in relation to the decision of the National Assembly on early termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of the management of the investment activity HAS DECIDED He elected Maria Asenova Filipova as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the management of the investment activity. Project! DECISION on the election of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Management Board. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 5, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 6, para. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act in relation to the decision of the National Assembly on early termination of the term of office of the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission in charge of the management of the Board of Directors. HAS DECIDED She elected Iliana Ilieva Hristova as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I will ask Mr. Atanasov to present the applications to Mrs. Filipova and Mrs. Hristova. You have the floor, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased to present briefly the two candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. I will start with my proposal for Vice-President of the Commission, head of the Board of Directors, Mrs. Maria Filipova. Ms. Filipova is a Master of Law, with numerous postgraduate qualifications and specializations. Its expertise is in the field of legal matters, hence its knowledge of the analysis, study and implementation of good practices, both in the norm sphere and in the current procedures, which should be optimised. I believe that with her experience in the Committee on Gambling, the Registry Agency, the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, respectively in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, where she has also worked, it will be invaluable for the work of the Management Board. I believe that with its abilities it will develop communication with both supervised entities and with branch organizations and with society as a whole. I believe that it has the experience, knowledge, qualification to be Vice-President, managing the investment activity. With dialogue and pragmatism will be a worthy Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission. My next candidacy is for Vice-President, head of the Board of Insurance Supervision (Iliana Hristova). Her professional career is fully targeted in the revenue administration. It has always been about controlling taxable persons to comply with legislation. Its career is entirely within the Territorial Directorate of the National Revenue Agency. She started as a revenue inspector, she was head of the Department of Coordination, then of the Directorate of Revenue, while in 2013 she became the territorial director of Sofia City. She's run over 2,000 people. Its task is to meet with a number of debtors, respectively, to be called upon to carry out their duties to the fissure and, accordingly, to comply with their obligations under law. I would stress that the Territorial Directorate of Sofia, which it has managed so far, gives more than one third of the budget, which implements the National Revenue Agency. I also believe that due to the fact that we are facing the challenge of creating the bonus-malus system, as well as dealing with the consequences of the collapse of the Cypriot insurance company, we need a leader with its qualities in terms of the power of character, the ability to communicate well with business and with society, and to have a very good experience that it actually has, in fact, has experience in managing processes. In her presentation, I liked this, she said that the formula for normalising the insurance sector should be made through control, communication and prevention communication of prevention. With that, I will conclude the presentation of the two applications. I just want to say that in the end, this will also begin the beginning of my belief that the way to the success of the Financial Supervision Commission goes through the creation of a good and cohesive team of professionals, good and timely communication with society and strict supervision in the three governments that the Commission monitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u12	Thank you, too. Colleagues, I now suggest that we listen briefly to the concepts of Mrs. Filipova and Mrs. Hristova. In the order of presentation please, Mrs. Filipova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u13	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, thank you for your confidence in presenting a concept of the activity of the Department of Investment and in detail its vision for development in the coming years. The vision presented in this document about the direction of action in the "Awareness of the investment activity" for the development of the capital market is towards increasing the liquidity of the capital market, ensuring the possibility of financing new companies through it, accelerating the growth of the economy in the medium term and improving the image of Bulgaria on the international map of the regulatory authorities in the non-banking financial sector and, of course, as an extremely important causal link, the better positioning of Bulgaria of the European map. In short, the main cases in the field at an up-to-date date in Bulgaria are the following: Reduction of investments, specifically in Bulgaria, and especially withdrawal of investors against other countries in Central and Eastern Europe. An element in the current situation is the lack of innovative instruments to attract investment companies, as well as mechanisms to attract investment through the stock exchange. Secondly, the existence of an investment resource within the country, mainly in pension and insurance companies, which due to low liquidity and regulatory constraints is invested outside our country. A lack of sufficient financial literacy. The concept presents three main areas of development in relation to the above mentioned cases and their importance for the capital market in Bulgaria. First of all, the main area is regulatory activity and control: improving existing and implementing new measures to ensure active control by the Commission, as well as creating awareness of self-control in supervised entities in the capital market. This will be done through risk-based supervision, as well as by carrying out coordinated supervision in situations where other institutions are involved. I foresee continuing with the stress tests in supervised entities in order to prevent possible problems, focus on control of investment firms and investment services companies. Timely information to the public on the envisaged changes in regulatory policy and supervision and adopted supervisory practices. Creating new approaches in the regulatory framework for companies to be public based on the Strategy for Capital Market Development in Bulgaria. Harmonisation of regulations with the European legal framework, as well as resolving existing regulatory contradictions. Regulation and control towards improving the tools for working with commercial companies for better corporate governance and publicising their expected information. The second area in which I will work and the specific measures I foresee on the administrative burden of capital markets are the measures for optimization of processes and digitalisation, namely: - analysis of proposals for optimization by supervised entities towards new regulations in order to reduce the administrative burden; - support for innovation in the non-banking financial sector; - optimization of business processes and appropriate clarification and indication of which specific processes can be digitized in the form of electronic services; - the construction of a single electronic portal for submission of information from and to the Financial Supervision Commission, the Central Depository, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and the public, and the final result should be a reduction of the administrative burden. The project is called the Single Entry Point. In addition to reducing the administrative burden, the effect will also have a level of transparency and stricter regulation of supervised entities, as well as a much better infrastructure in the capital market. Following the two main areas of development presented, the third, in which I believe that I can make a very serious contribution, namely the implementation of international cooperation. This includes exchange of good practices and international positioning of Bulgaria in order to attract new investors and work teams under European Capital Markets Development Programmes in the European Union through the following measures: - more serious cooperation with the ESMA, the independent European body to ensure the stability of the financial system of the European Union; - work on projects at international level in order to know current trends, risks and, of course, opportunities for development of capital markets in the form of effective practices of other countries; - analysis of practices for the introduction of specialised education concerning capital markets; - communication and dialogue with the media to create interest in capital markets and information concerning exchanges; - dialogue at local level with branch organizations. Finally, I would like to stress that the most important end result is improving Bulgaria's image as a place for good investments. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to state my willingness to work actively and consistently for the continuous improvement of the regulatory and supervisory activities of the Financial Supervision Commission, meeting the challenges in the investment sector in protecting the interests of consumers of non-banking financial services. I declare my intention that the Financial Supervision Commission will continue to take active regulatory action, to carry out an effective risk-based supervision of the non-banking financial sector in order to ensure sound financial markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Filipova. Dear Mrs. Hristova, you have the floor to present your concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u15	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Thank you for the opportunity to present a concept of the activity of the insurance supervision department. To date, the insurance sector is a sector of national importance. In recent years, assets managed by non-life insurance companies plus assets of life insurance companies have increased to 7,7 billion. lv. A significant public and financial resource, undoubtedly. The Commission aims to ensure supervision of it and the final result of the work must be security for consumers of insurance services and the confidence of citizens in state control. In view of the serious crisis situations in the past year, with the case of Olympik, and with the proposal, I believe that the sector is still in a serious situation and that action is needed in order to overcome them. The concept developed by me is in three main directions: crisis prevention, control and communication. The first area of action I propose is crisis prevention. I believe that we need to anticipate the risks so that we can prepare in advance the relevant strategies to overcome them and turn weak points into strengths and problems into challenges. Due to the mandatory nature of certain types of insurance, insured persons are not well informed about what they pay for, what their commitments are, respectively responsibilities and/or rights, and therefore any information outside the norm appears to be the first cause of a situation that could lead to a crisis. In order to prevent such situations, it is necessary to provide sufficient types and quantity of platforms to introduce users of services in depth what is behind the mandatory nature of an insurance. The second focus is on even stronger control. Control is necessary and it must be strong enough to have confidence in the Financial Supervision Commission from both insurance services and those receiving them. I am referring to working towards four specific improvement measures: - strengthening remote supervision, and in this regard it is necessary to take action to provide information on the supervisory review process; - carrying out even more qualitative controls through on-the-spot checks; - thirdly, I focus on carrying out checks on insurance intermediaries and full checks on insurance brokers; - and finally, in the field of control actions, strengthening administrative-criminal activity and checks on complaints received, signals, inquiries from insurance users. The third major area of action in the concept is communication. The direction that I will follow and aim at is the creation of a client-centred approach in the field of insurance, where the main focus is on the visibility of new ideas, awareness of the directions of action and opportunities for fast two-way communication with citizens on basic, important issues for society. The specific instruments and measures I propose are: - taking measures and actions to reduce the number of uninsured motor vehicles by organising monthly thematic road inspection campaigns on the existence of compulsory insurance; - as a second measure for improving communication is the creation of a platform, both digital and discussional, live in order to collect different opinions, views and perspectives on the necessary regulations, control and changes in the insurance sector. As the concept presented by me is mainly at a strategic level, I also allow myself to point out two important topics for society, namely: the cases of the bankruptcy of Olympics and the proposal for the system of Bonus-malus. I believe that it is absolutely imperative that the Commission's policy and efforts in the area of the insurance sector continue to be directed in the following directions: - overcoming the consequences of the bankruptcy of the Cypriot insurance company "Olympik" and the monitoring of the National Bureau of Bulgarian Motor Insurance, strengthening of the compensation mechanisms in the Bulgarian insurance system; - and, secondly, the public discussion of the project on the system of "bonus-malus" showed that it needs to be improved in order to be adopted by society and effectively implemented. In order to achieve its objectives, namely: to improve road safety by promoting sound driving of vehicles and to reduce the number of deaths and injuries, the instrument is the system of I am committed in cooperation with the other two institutions empowered to adopt the relevant regulation, to develop new editorials of the regulation and to assess regulatory changes that should meet public expectations and achieve the strategic objectives of this system. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and opportunity. I would be honored and privileged to respond to the trust that I have been voted upon by presenting my candidacy. I believe that I have the necessary experience and expertise to join the Financial Supervision Commission and confidently follow the strategy that I have presented to you, along with the team of professionals working there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u16	Thank you, and I, dear Mrs. Christova. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on the election of Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. You have the floor to speak. If there are no speeches, we are going to vote on the proposed nominations. The draft decisions have already been submitted by the President of the Commission. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote the draft decision for the election of Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, headed by the Investment Activity Monitoring Board. The draft decision in its entirety was presented by the President of the Commission Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote. Vote 115 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision for the election of Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, head of the Insurance Supervision Department (IAIANA ILIeva Hristova). The draft decision was presented in its entirety by the President of the Commission Mrs. Stoyanova. Please vote. They voted 114 MPs: 113 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Come and take an oath and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u17	I vow, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria, to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country, to work for the implementation of the objectives of the Financial Supervision Commission by guiding myself by the principles of independence, objectivity and good faith in the fulfilment of the obligations conferred on me by the Law. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u18	Congratulations and good luck! We continue with the second point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Importer is the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2019. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries, No 902-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2019. At a meeting held on 4 April 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries, No 902-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Republic of Bulgaria has launched a procedure for establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank and accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the resulting accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism in the European Union. In this regard, it is necessary to introduce provisions relating to the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 laying down uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms under the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund and amending Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 806/2014', which governs the establishment and functioning of the Single Resolution Mechanism, the Statute and Functions of the Single Resolution Board, the establishment of the Single Resolution Fund, the allocation of competences between the Single Resolution Board and the National Resolution Authorities within the Single Resolution Mechanism, the cooperation between the Single Resolution Board and the National Resolution Authorities, as well as provisions requiring the national resolution authority to comply with the instructions, guidelines, measures or requests issued by the Single Resolution Board on credit institutions authorised therein. Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 will apply to Bulgaria from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank. The draft Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms does not provide for any amendments to the previously transposed texts of Directive 2014/59/EU, but rather regulates the powers of the Bulgarian National Bank as a national resolution authority for credit institutions and the Financial Supervision Commission as a national resolution authority for certain investment firms within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No Thus, the provisions of the Law will, for the most part, be examined simultaneously with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014, which is based on full transposition into the national law of Directive 2014/59/EU, while allowing in certain situations the powers of the resolution authorities under the Directive to be implemented by the Single Resolution Board or the resolution authorities to fulfil their powers on the basis of instructions and guidelines from the Single Resolution Board. The bill provides that national resolution authorities should apply Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 and the Law when carrying out their tasks and exercising their powers. In addition, the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission as resolution authorities, respectively national resolution authorities within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No One of the main consequences of joining the Single Resolution Mechanism is the concomitant accession to the Single Resolution Fund. Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014, the national resolution authority (in this case the Bulgarian National Bank of the Republic of Bulgaria is responsible for the collection and transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund after the initial transfer of funds upon accession under the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund. In this regard, as well as the fact that the Bank Restructuring Fund raises funds except from credit institutions and from branches of credit institutions from third countries which are outside the scope of the Single Resolution Mechanism, the Bill provides for the transfer of the Bank Restructuring Fund to the Bulgarian National Bank and the establishment of two sub-funds in it, respectively, in order to finance the implementation of the instruments and resolution powers under this Act only in respect of branches of credit institutions from third countries, and a sub-fund for raising contributions under Articles 69, 70 and 71 of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 and their transfer to the Single Resolution Fund. Since at present in the Republic of Bulgaria, among investment firms falling within the scope of the Law, there are no such firms falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 806/2014, no such change is foreseen for the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund. However, rules regarding the need to collect and transfer contributions from investment firms that would fall within the scope of Regulation (EU) No As a result of the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the function of calculating the contributions of credit institutions authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria and investment firms falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No In view of the planned transfer of the Bank Restructuring Fund from the Deposit Guarantee Fund to the Bulgarian National Bank, it is also envisaged to transfer the functions of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to banks on the establishment of a bridge bank and asset management company to the resolution authority. Some amendments have also been proposed aimed at correcting an existing discrepancy between the Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms and Directive 2014/59/EU on the financing of the capital of the bridge institution and the asset management company. The capital of the bridge bank, of the bridge investment firm, of the bridge financial holding company and of the asset management company is envisaged to be able to be financed not only by funds from the Bank Restructuring Fund, respectively by the Investment Broker Restructuring Fund, but partly by converting the institution's eligible liabilities into a restructuring regime in ordinary shares of the bridge institution or otherwise. A transitional provision in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries provides for the possibility of exchanging information before the date of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism, on the one hand, between the Bulgarian National Bank and the Single Resolution Board, and on the other hand, between the credit institutions and the Single Resolution Board at the request of the Bulgarian National Bank in its capacity as resolution authority. The application of the proposed amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms is not related to the spending of public financial and other funds. In addition to the transfer of initial funds and subsequent contributions from credit institutions to the Bank Restructuring Fund to the Single Resolution Fund, with the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism, an obligation will be introduced for credit institutions authorised in the Republic of Bulgaria to contribute to the budget of the Single Resolution Board in accordance with the provisions of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/2361 of 14 September 2017 on the final contribution scheme for the administrative costs of the Single Resolution Board. After the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 14 votes for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, No 902-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. This was the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. There are no reports from other committees. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the Law in question amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms aims, with the amendments proposed in it, to bring national legislation into line with the provisions of the European Regulation, EU No 806 of 2014. The idea is to regulate the role of the Single Resolution Board and the National Restructuring Authority in the National Restructuring Framework with a view to Bulgaria's accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism. All the changes proposed in the Bill stem from the law of the European Union. As we know, Bulgaria has launched the procedure for establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank and accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism, and from this it follows joining the Single Resolution Mechanism in the European Union. In our national legislation, however, there is no legal basis for our country's accession to the Supervisory Mechanism and to the Restructuring Mechanism. It is therefore necessary to introduce provisions relating to the application of Regulation No 806 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 in national law. This Regulation governs the establishment and functioning of the Single Resolution Mechanism, the Statute and Functions of the Single Resolution Board, the establishment of the Single Resolution Fund, the allocation of competences between the Single Resolution Board and the national resolution authorities within the Single Resolution Mechanism. Provisions shall be introduced relating to cooperation between the Single Resolution Board and national resolution authorities; provisions requiring the National Resolution Authority to comply with the instructions, guidelines, measures or requirements issued by the Single Resolution Board with regard to credit institutions authorised therein. So much for the idea and purpose of the Bill. Now I would like to recall, in summary, what Regulation No 806 of 2014, which is mentioned on several occasions, and is the reason for the changes proposed in the legislation. What is the effect of this regulation? It shall define the structure of the Single Resolution Board, which shall consist of a Chair, Vice-Presidents, four permanent members and the authorities of all participating States of the European Union, acting through executive and plenary sessions. The executive sessions shall include Chairs and its four independent statutory members and permanent observers appointed by the Commission and the European Central Bank. The plenary sessions shall include the full composition of the Council. What are the main aspects laid down in Regulation No 806 of 2014? The main aspect is the Single Resolution Authority. Where a bank is considered to be in a crisis situation, the Board shall draw up a restructuring scheme which shall be submitted to the European Commission for formal approval. If the Commission does not object, the scheme should be adopted within 24 hours. In some special cases, the Commission may ask the Council, i.e. the governments of the European Union, to approve the amendments to the plan. There is also a restructuring scheme there when less than 5 billion are to be withdrawn. EUR from the Single Resolution Fund is either approved or not at meetings of the Executive Board, i.e. in a limited composition, which includes only the national authorities of the State in which the bank is possibly in crisis. When more than 5 billion are needed. EUR, decisions are taken at a plenary session, i.e. in full composition of the Board. The single restructuring fund is financed by the banks and should reach 1% of the deposits provided in all EU countries by a total of 55 billion. EUR in 2024. In parallel to the Regulation, an Intergovernmental Agreement was signed between the participating countries of the European Union, allowing the transfer of the contributions from banks to the national divisions of the Fund and the gradual mutual use of the contributions to it. The single resolution mechanism, which is another aspect of Regulation No 806 of 2014, the new resolution authority and the Single Resolution Fund jointly constitute a Single Resolution Mechanism. This system and the Single Supervisory Mechanism, which gives supervisory powers to the European Central Bank, are the foundations of the banking union, which refers to the countries of the Eurozone. Of course, other EU countries can also participate. Another aspect included in the Regulation is which banks are covered. The single resolution authority shall be responsible for the restructuring of all banks supervised by the European Central Bank. As regards the Single Supervisory Mechanism, the Board is directly responsible for the largest banks directly supervised by the European Central Bank and cross-border banks. The other banks remain directly responsible for the national authorities, nevertheless they remain under indirect responsibility of the Board. In any event, if their restructuring plan includes the need to use the Single Resolution Fund, the Single Resolution Authority may assist them. With the adoption of this bill, the necessary legal arrangements will be provided to ensure Bulgaria's accession to the Single Resolution and Implementation Mechanism of the Provisions of Regulation No 806 of 2014, which I have already told you about. The amendments made to the Bill are generally related to regulating the role of the Single Resolution Board and the national resolution and information exchange and cooperation between them. With our country's accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism, it will create an obligation for credit institutions to contribute to the Single Resolution Board's budget in order to cover the administrative costs of this Board. By regulation, contributions are calculated by the Council and not by the national competent authority, but the national competent authority will collect those contributions and transfer them to the Single Resolution Board. In view of the planned transfer of the Bank Restructuring Fund from the Deposit Guarantee Fund to the Bulgarian National Bank, it is also envisaged to transfer the functions of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to the banks for the establishment of a bridge bank and the Asset Management Company to the resolution authority. Some amendments are proposed aimed at correcting the current non-compliance in the Law and in EU Directive 2014/59 on the financing of the capital of the bridge institution and the asset management company. The capital of the bridge bank, of the bridge investment firm, of the bridge financial holding company and of the asset management company is envisaged to be able to be financed not only by funds from the Bank Restructuring Fund, respectively by the Bank Restructuring Fund, but partly also by converting the institution's eligible liabilities into a restructuring regime in ordinary shares of the bridge institution or otherwise. A transitional provision in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermediaries provides for the possibility of exchanging information prior to the date of accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism on the one hand between the Bulgarian National Bank and the Single Resolution Board, on the other hand, between the credit institutions and the Single Resolution Board at the request of the Bulgarian National Bank as resolution authority. Such exchange of information should be carried out for the purpose of preparing accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism and concerning information on the recovery and restructuring of institutions and entities under art. 1, para. 1, t. 3 - 5 of the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, as well as on the process of preparation and planning of restructuring, including information that constitutes professional, banking and commercial secrecy. In conclusion, we should note that the implementation of the proposed amendments to the Bill is not related to the expenditure of public, financial and other funds and that Regulation No 806 of 2014 will apply to Bulgaria from the date of establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank, but the current National Legal Framework for Restructuring, as we have already said, does not regulate the change that will take place in the role of the National Restructuring Authority with the implementation of the regulations. It is therefore necessary to adopt this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? There are no requests for lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am speaking in connection with this Draft Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. In short, I would like to define the need for this change, namely that the Republic of Bulgaria launches a procedure for establishing close cooperation with the European Central Bank and joining the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the resulting accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism in the European Union. National legislation currently lacks a legal basis for the country's accession to the Single Supervisory Mechanism and the Single Resolution Mechanism. There is a need for the introduction into national legislation of provisions relating to the implementation of Regulation No 806/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 establishing uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms under the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund and amending Regulation No 1093/2010, which governs the establishment and functioning of the Single Resolution Mechanism, the Statute and the functions of the Single Resolution Board, the establishment of the Single Resolution Fund, the allocation of competences between the Single Resolution Board and the national resolution authorities within the Single Resolution Mechanism, the cooperation between the Single Board and the National Resolution Authorities, as well as provisions requiring the National Resolution Authority to comply with the instructions, guidelines, measures or requirements issued by the Single Resolution Board with regard to credit institutions authorised therein. Regulation No 806/2014 will apply to Bulgaria from the date of establishment of close cooperation with the European Central Bank. The current National Legal Framework for Restructuring in Bulgaria does not regulate the change that will take place in the role of the national resolution authority, following the direct application of Regulation No 806/2014 and the role of the Single Resolution Board in the National Restructuring Framework. Currently, the activity of restoring and restructuring credit institutions and investment firms in Bulgaria is regulated by the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, which introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms and amending Council Directive 82/891/EEC. The prepared Law amending and supplementing the law on the restoration of restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms aims to ensure direct application of the provisions, namely Regulation No 806/2014. The proposed legislative amendments laid down in the draft Law, of this Amending and Supplement Act are set out in the Regulation in the way in which the National Resolution Authority fulfils its powers under Regulation No 806/2014 and interacts with the Single Resolution Board. The changes arise from the need to ensure the application of the provisions of Regulation No 806/2014, without the possibility of doing so within the framework of existing legislation. We have two options ahead of us. One option is to do nothing and not accept this law as amendment and supplement. In this case, no change in the National Regulations will be adopted to ensure the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism and the implementation of the provisions of Regulation No 806/2014. There will be a gap in our national legislation on which we can interact and follow the instructions and guidelines of the Single Resolution Board. Information will not be available and we will cooperate closely in planning and implementing restructuring actions. The following is a version in which we adopt this law for amendment and supplement, namely in this version the necessary proposals and legal changes will be provided to ensure the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism and the implementation of the provisions of Regulation No 806/2014. The legislative changes are aimed at regulating the role of the Single Resolution Board in the context of the National Legal Framework relating to the restructuring of credit institutions, the exchange of information and cooperation between the National Resolution Authority and that of the European Restructuring Board. With the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism, there will be a direct or indirect obligation for credit institutions authorised in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to contribute to the budget of the Single Resolution Board in accordance with the provisions of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/2361 of 14 September 2017 on a definitive scheme to cover the administrative costs of the Single Resolution Board. The contributions will be calculated by the Single Council and not by the National Authority. However, Regulation No 806/2014 provides that the contributions are to be collected by the National Resolution Authority and transferred from it to the Single Council. The adoption of this Law amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms aims to ensure that this process is properly ensured. The final objective of the proposed Draft is to translate our national legislation once again in accordance with the provisions of the abovementioned Regulation No 806/2014 and to regulate the role of the Single Resolution Board and the National Restructuring Authority in our national framework, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Single Resolution Mechanism. That is why, my fellow Members, I call on you to support the proposed bill in the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to the statement? Mrs. Ilieva, you have the opportunity to reply. You have the floor, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, from your speech and from the statement of colleagues before you it became clear that in fact one of the main consequences of our accession to the Single Resolution Fund is that the functions of BNB should be defined as a national authority with regard to credit institutions and the Financial Supervision Commission as such body with regard to investment firms. However, it has not become clear whether, before the date of our accession, we will be able to exchange information with the Single Resolution Mechanism in respect of all the processes that are taking place? Please clarify that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u26	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ilieva, thank you for the interesting question. Indeed, the Crossing provision in the Draft Amendment and Supplement provides for the possibility of exchanging information before the date of the Republic of Bulgaria's accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism, on the one hand, between the BNB and the Single Resolution Board and, on the other hand, between the credit institutions and the Single Board at the request of the BNB, as a resolution authority at the moment. Such exchange of information should be carried out for the purpose of preparing our accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism and concerning information on the recovery and restructuring of institutions and entities under art. 1, para. 1, t. 5 in this Law. Thank you for your question. I hope I've been thorough in my answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other statements? I don't see any requests. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs, because we have a vote coming up. We are voting at first reading a bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, No 902-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 March 2019. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted on the first review. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE ELECTRONIC MEDIA COUNCIL FOR THE PERIOD 1 JANUARY 31 DECEMBER 2018 The Electronic Media Board is the importer. A Report from the Committee on Culture and Media has been received on this point. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I want to do a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that Mrs Betina Joteva be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u30	Thank you. We are going to vote on Mrs Joteva's procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Mrs. Joteva to the hall. Mrs. Chekanska, are you going to introduce us to the report? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u31	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the activities of the Electronic Media Council for the period 1 January "31 December 2018, No 930-00-4, submitted by the Electronic Media Board on 28 March 2019 At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 4 April 2019 the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2018, No 930-00-4, submitted by the Council for Electronic Media on 28 March 2019. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Council for Electronic Media: Sofia Vladimirova Chairman, and members: Betina Joteva, Rosita Elenova, Ivo Atanasov; Emilia Staneva The report was presented by Mrs. Sofia Vladimirova. In accordance with art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television The Council for Electronic Media shall present for discussion and adoption by the National Assembly an annual report on its activities no later than 31 March of the following year and shall publish it on its website. It provides information on: the audiovisual and audiovisual sector in Bulgaria; it oversees the activities of media service providers; licensing and registration of radio and television programmes; legal activities and case-law; international, financial, information and administrative activity. The main criterion in the supervisory activity of the regulator is the protection of the audience from violations of the Radio and Television Act in the distributed programmes of suppliers. In 2018, the CEM monitored the following events with great public interest: the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union; the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence (Istanbul Convention); the protests of the mothers of children with disabilities and the speech of Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov; the opinion of the Sofia District Court (SOC) on information about a judge from the SRS who released a criminal from Sudan. The Council for Electronic Media has also performed monitoring of programs with specialized music profile, reality and lifestyle formats, of crisis events, of the broadcasting of violent footage, observations regarding the regulatory requirements for the trade word. Last year, he also performed monitoring of programmes of media service providers (with a polythematic and specialized profile) with a view to complying with the conditions of individual radio activity licences issued. He continues to supervise compliance with the provisions on the volume of advertisements, which includes programmes scheduled and received signals from citizens. Among the highlights of the activity for the reporting period is the activities of the CEM on the protection of copyright and related rights, as well as the protection of the children's audience against adverse content. In 2018, the CEM carried out a total volume of monitoring of radio and television programmes of 23,426 hours, of them for television programs With regard to the other main activity performed by the CEM and registration, it has been noted that a significant change in the quantitative dimensions of the radio and television environment as a number of existing radio and television providers is not noticed. On the market of audiovisual media services 112 registered Bulgarian suppliers work, which create 145 programs. In the radio sector there are 60 media service providers who have individual licences to deliver 84 programmes via terrestrial analogue broadcasting. There is still cable distribution of radio programs where 23 registered radio service providers create 24 cable radio programs. 6 programmes created by 4 audiovisual media service providers are distributed with terrestrial digital broadcasting networks, so-called multiplexes. It is apparent from the administrative criminal activity of the CEM for 2018 that 42 criminal rulings were issued, 38 of them were appealed and were brought or pending cases before the courts concerned, 4 were not appealed. During the reporting period, 48 judgments were given, which closed proceedings against criminal decrees issued by the Chairman of the CEM in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. They confirmed 40 penal decrees, one amended and 7 repealed. During the discussion, Commission President Vecdi Rashidov addressed the topic of copyright on the image and name of the person. As well as discussing the issue of declaring the property and income of public figures having an impact on society. The Vice-President of the Commission, Professor Stanislav Stanilov, focused on the re-explosion of crimes by the media, false news and manipulation of society. National Representative Velislava Krasteva paid attention to the responsibility of the media in criminal incidents and the powers of the investigative bodies. He also raised the question of the demoralization of society and the lack of corrective in the media. After the discussion the National Representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media with 9 votes for the Council of Electronic Media for the period 1 January, 31 December 2018, No 930"4, submitted by the Council of Electronic Media on 28 March 2019, submitted by the Council of Electronic Media
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Chekanska. This was the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I would like to inform you that, for the first time in the Committee on Culture and Media, the SEM report did not go as smoothly as it has always gone before for a simple reason, not because the report is bad, but because it is a report within the framework of a law adopted 20 years ago. The report and the report can not be otherwise because they are in line with the powers of the CEM. We often get into debates about whether there is a need for another independent regulatory authority. I must inform you that the SEM is not only a regulatory authority, because the word "governing" is to seek the purity of speech, to regulate speech, but also an authority that must monitor media behaviour and, of course, to guarantee both the freedom of viewers and the freedom of the media themselves. It has to be a body that guarantees all of this. Personally, I believe that the CEM itself is one body, and independent. And I don't see any sense at all, like ideas sneaking around, making another independent body, and then another thing would be doing... Colleagues, the problem is not the CEM, the problem is the laws that give them as many rights as they report. Here, of course, I sincerely want to appeal to the CEM. Indeed, this is a very important issue, and this was the debate in which we entered, because in the long years an old law also helps demoralise society. You know, lately it's become fashionable to talk about freedom of speech. However, I have always asked: which Bulgarian citizen violated freedom of speech? Or is this problem in the hands of the media themselves? It is precisely the role of the SEM that is to see whether this is populism, or whether we are seriously looking for legal measures to guarantee the true freedom of speech that belongs to all of us, because we, we, we do not want, with the media, are one. If there are no viewers, if there are no listeners, you know that the existence of the media is absolutely unnecessary, so together we make up a common whole. And in this whole, in order not to make mistakes, the SEM is the body that will have to control in both directions.. always be able to ensure, not only to punish with petty money any surrender for violation or obscene words, but to regulate entire processes when human destinies can be harmed. This is also part of how far freedom can go. Freedom is a string of orders, and it's legal. It's not chaos, it's not endless freedom. Freedom is clearly and precisely written in the Bulgarian Constitution. And I get a nice car with 100, 200 kilometers, but the catholic says, "Sir, you can't do 140!" Laws say how much and how far we're free. And the laws must guarantee everyone's freedom! All I'm trying to tell you and explain is that there's nothing to blame for the CEM. Let us not sound like an accusation, but rather we propose, for the first time, that we all sit together, and the Commission, of course, wait for proposals from the CEM, for legal changes to a law that has not been touched in 20 years. The present already requires a quick response and a more flexible attitude to these laws, because otherwise any obscure law can deliver the things we are talking about, and they can acquire another species, which I think they seem to be getting lately as well. We must also preserve the hygiene of society. And here I will say to the CEM: see, colleagues, in Bulgaria one thing is impossible to do like Bernard Tapi seven years ago. I've said it clearly passes a little by the ears of some people, when everyone is in their right, there is an authority that defends the law. Indeed, Bernard Tapi condemned a media outlet with 47 million. Euro, and not to punish a media, which is because we are fighting a great deal of false news today. The law gives us reason to be part of the battle against these false news our rights, which as listeners and viewers must have them. I agree, there is no way we can not accept the CEM report, the CEM's report, because it is made according to the rules of this law that exists. Last, however, I appeal: while there is still a Commission that wishes to work for better laws, for public debates that we are ready, as well as in the Law on media ownership, we have had broad discussions.............................. we have the courage to do so and to seek the legal forms with which we really have the word............................................ That's why she exists with you. Spoken more loyally, regulation. We expect you to submit proposals and sit down to make the necessary, necessary amendments to ensure all that we want to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u34	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? I won't. There's a MP who wants to make a statement. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov. Next, Paul Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Joteva! We, of course, accept the SEM as it is. We are aware that in this financial, personnel and technical security, especially when the National Assembly introduces you with other additional obligations, this may end with the SEM. I am using the National Assembly stands, however, to call on the Ministry of Finance to pay a little more attention to the budget of the CEM for next year, as you definitely need the new things that you need to monitor and regulate, you need funds to provide your technical work. However, I would like to raise another question, and this question concerns the way in which the Bulgarian media reflect the news that comes from the Republic of Macedonia or from the state with the new name, as it is already known. A known fact is also the Bulgarian science has long proven that the language spoken in this country is a regional norm of the Bulgarian literary language. Moreover, this dialect is used in a large part of the modern borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, I consider it highly inappropriate for central Bulgarian media to continue using subtitles when providing news related to the Republic of Macedonia. Moreover, in the spirit of the Treaty of Friendship and Good Neighborhood, which was concluded in recognition of the common past, at the bilateral meetings at the highest level that are being made, translation is not being used, subtitles are not being used. There are dozens of perhaps already hundreds of cultural mutual manifestations between the two countries and there is no such translation. That is why I said that it is highly inappropriate to continue this use of subtitles, as if this language is absolutely incomprehensible to the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would therefore call on the Council for Electronic Media to monitor the media, on televisions mostly, which use subtitles in the transmission of news related to Macedonia, and to pay more serious attention to them that, in the spirit of the new relations between the two countries, this is highly inappropriate and must be terminated. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With great satisfaction from Mr Rashidov, I have just heard that for the first time the report in the Commission has not gone smoothly. In this regard, with great satisfaction, I have heard from him and his opinion that new material laws on this matter are needed, because it is not the question of criticising the CEM, the issue is the laws, the question is that the CEM under these laws is doing its job and could not intervene and meet those needs for the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio, for which the CEM is responsible and has special powers. The good thing about these reports is that, over a certain period of time, we tell each other the pain, problems in matters of many of the institutions, in this case we are talking about the CEM. After past the initial period of hopes that were given for the new leadership, and it is no longer new, it became two years old on the Bulgarian National Television, I believe that these hopes proved unreal. The events, actions and measures to turn Bulgarian national television into television were not implemented to meet the needs of society and to be a real public television. We can't have a TV station since we are looking at the period of last 2018, on the day of the national holiday, and on the 140th anniversary of the Liberation of Bulgaria, to celebrate this evening with the historical, wonderful, unforgettable film. I have nothing against the film, but there are so many canvases in the history of Bulgarian cinematography, so significant, so serious, with which this holiday should be celebrated. But this was in the context of the whole notation, where the number stopped all the time and wondered the people of the Bulgarian National Television.BG About the Liberation of Bulgaria, where the main topic was how to establish and prove by some comrades left or liberals that this is not any liberation of Bulgaria. I'm giving you an example for a day, but this is going on all the time, every day with some lines that still live on screen, where there are some people who have spoken. Since I mentioned one of the sections story.BG, there themes are constantly placed and revolved around the Liberation of Bulgaria... + 10, 20 years ago and 20, 30 years later..... to prove that Russia has not freed us from Turkish slavery and that Turkish slavery is not slavery. And there are some comrades, gentlemen, who are left or liberals, of whom you know the names, not to quote disgusted and completely exhausted, bankrupt as politicians or intellectuals as they claim, are invited by the leading one, two people. One article on faith, a column that aims for and communism, which aims for papacy, which aims for all kinds of heresies, which aims in any way to discredit the Bulgarian priestly bishops, the Holy Synod, but has nothing really to do with our, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and faith. And so it goes. That's because the CEM has no authority to stop this vacanalia. And our law also cannot carry out effective control over this, and this television has become a unit of comrade or Mr. Soros I do not know, and the Bulgarian taxpayers pay generously millions, and tens of millions to have these liberals or neoliberals what to call them, Bulgarian national television, which in the most innocent sections and shows conduct their ideas, their politics, their genderism. It was just mentioned here about the Djender Istanbul Convention. [[Heckling]] The main battle for the Istanbul Convention was held by the Bulgarian National Television and here I am very well understood by some people who also in the ranks of GERB are liberating, smiling wonderfully, are aware of what I am saying. The only perhaps good thing about the Bulgarian national television right now is that very few people are watching it and that is actually the thing that is satisfactory, positive and it cannot bring in and inflict the total damage that it actually has as its purpose in that it is completely conquered, controlled and directed in this direction. Therefore, I will return to the words of Mr. Rashidov, who is the chairman of the board of directors. I know he intends to, he has some idea finally after all these years to introduce a new regulation for the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. In this regard, I am not talking about the other functions of the SEM that it performs or does not perform. But there, of course, is a tendency, because the management is more or less similar to what is on the Bulgarian National Television. And some TV stations are constantly suffering some penalties, and some fines are being imposed, and scary, and in this regard, the SEM is doing or not doing what it is obliged to do again. Another is the issue and endless is the issue of regulations regarding false news, about distorted news, about the silences of certain events, about other.. bloating and their hyperbolisation. It is important that the media environment is, of course, a fundamental element in society as it is, and that we make the relevant changes in a very short time, for which there will be opposition, and I assure you that is why this matter may not be touched, this regulation. Just a moment ago, Mr. Bogdanov, my colleague from "United Patriarchs" gave only one example, but he is one of the countless examples that can be given only on this topic - relations with Macedonia or as we have now called it Northern Macedonia. It is clear that perhaps within this National Assembly we should make these changes, otherwise we will pour in both the CEM and the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio some money as in the bottomless land.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u38	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? Applications for other speeches on the decision under discussion? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Joteva, when it comes to the CEM report, I would kind of object to my colleagues saying that he is passing peacefully. Usually there is a discussion that is open to all problems related to freedom of speech in general. The report on the CEM report is usually part of the big topic of freedom of speech, the big topic of false news and disinformation. I want to tell you that this report is public, it is also published on the website of the National Assembly. Each of us, each of you, and our audience can read it and see what the regulator has actually been up to over the last year. I assure you that you will see quite serious monitoring studies that are only one side of the activities of the CEM. Along with these inspections, which are mandatory, the CEM must also be a guarantor of the freedom and independence of the media. Of course, with the agreement that no one can better preserve their freedom and independence than the media themselves. I'm going to focus on the two-point report. This is the media coverage of events of public importance and crisis situations. Why is that such an important accent from the CEM's work? Mostly because the coverage of the public events, as well as the crisis events, is a good environment "good in quotes," but also in the direct sense of the word "distributing" Mr. Rashidov uses the term, if I may call it "lying news," I think it sounds good in this case, and even more frightening is the spread of disinformation. I have repeatedly expressed my opinion that disinformation is more frightening than fairy, because there is a vicious mixing of truth and untruth and the viewer, the reader, the listening audience are even more confused. We must not forget, of course, when we are talking about the SEM, that the regulator nevertheless observes compliance with the Radio and Television Act. He has no commitment to observe what is happening on the websites, although television and radio cover much of the information environment, yet this is not the complete media picture. Let's not forget this moment. The CEM has mentioned several times that from 10 signals, nine are at least related to news related to electronic platforms on websites, but their powers do not affect this type of media. This is partly a reference to another topic that has been put here. The subject of changing legislation and possibly extending the powers of the regulator, but this is in a slightly more lateral plane. To go back to what I told you in the beginning. I'll pay attention to two accents. As for the coverage of the events of public importance, the CEM has done in its Report, you can follow it, a very thorough analysis of the coverage of the Bulgarian European Presidency, following it, colleagues have previously talked mainly about the public media, but let us not forget that in the end the CEM does not regulate only the public electronic media, regulates all television stations, all radio stations, so the task that the Council had to follow the coverage of the European Presidency is indeed quite large. The conclusions he has made from this monitoring are that media service providers, as terminologically called this type of media, have widely reflected the Presidency, given the opportunity for different reports and interviews and direct inclusions of different events. The assessment is that this coverage has gone under a positive sign, which is ultimately good from the point of view of the fact that electronic media, I mean televisions, what they emit as information, is the easiest and most naturally accepted by the audience, because, for example, the information that is published in a printed edition or on a website requires a greater and more active attitude from the consumer, so it is important that this positive sign, which is given by the electronic media in the coverage of the European Presidency, and the CEM highlights it. Another topic that has come into the investigation of the CEM is already mentioned, a rather flexible subject for the Istanbul Convention. The regulator also takes into account the possibility of expressing differing views, including some of which..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, there is also a recommendation to the media. It seems that there is a deficit in the participation of lawyers to comment more closely on the document itself from a legal point of view. This is a piece of advice that could be taken more deeply by media service providers themselves. As regards monitoring for the coverage of crisis news, a very large part of the CEM report is related to them. I will only point to a few events. There are a lot of them, but two serious road accidents have been widely reflected in the media. We are all interested in them because we are all road users and we all want to receive adequate information rather than salt soup, as is often the case. It's about the accident with a lot of victims, I think six, on the Thracian highway, in May last year, about the accident near Svoge with a lot more victims, I think it had finally become 20, as well as the murder of Victoria Marinova from Ruse. These are three of the most significant crisis events. The regulator shall monitor media behaviour, taking into account positive trends in speed and objectivity, the inclusion of different views in the presentation of relevant crisis events. With regard to the coverage of the crash of the highway, Trakiya. There was also a remark on the behaviour of a reporter's team on one of the television stations, especially because they did not respect the respect of the privacy of some of the witnesses and followed administrative proceedings in relation to the fact that one of the reporters was considered to be a little more persistent in the request and collection of information from the witnesses of the crash of Trakiya. With regard to the accident near Svoge, the conclusions are generally positive that in the first hours of the accident, the media, the electronic media, I mean, not to forget that we are only talking about TVs and radios, have not been tempted to disclose personal data of the victims, because it is assumed that in the first hours of the accident, the families themselves and relatives of the people who are affected by the accidents still have no information and should be informed first by other sources of information and not by the media that a loved one has suffered or, by no means, died. The data of the driver who caused the crash is mentioned and disclosed, which is in the order of normal and the regulator notes that this is the correct behavior. A very thorough analysis was made of the murder of Victoria Marinova, and I was personally impressed by the report that the CEM provided that Bulgarian electronic media, providing very detailed information, including the way in which the murder was committed, including the perpetrator, had not crossed the limit of temptation to speak spicy about this really serious and drastic crime. The other thing that is important is that we take it as an achievement. This balance in the Bulgarian media, but we have seen it in some foreign media, attempts to misinformation regarding the coverage of this murder. Information has been leaked regarding the motives for committing that the crime may be related to the work of the young woman. The Bulgarian electronic media, according to the CEM Father, have preserved this limit of decency and have fully adhered to the facts, which, as a matter of fact, were quickly announced by the investigating authorities. Since we are talking about whether it is objective enough, is the CEM report full enough, I think it does contain quite detailed facts as regards monitoring for the coverage of these two categories of events that I have told you about. They are important and I have chosen to speak and put the emphasis on them, and I will repeat it again because for me personally, and for my colleagues from the Commission, correct, professional, accurate coverage of important, socially significant events and crisis situations is the best antidote to false news or false, as Mr Rashidov said, and against misinformation. And just one sentence, I suppose that the topic will be discussed a little later, quite serious work ahead of the CEM started in 2018, they are due this year, with regard to the transposition of the Audiovisual Services Directive. It was approved and adopted last year during the Bulgarian European Presidency. I am convinced that we have already had several meetings with representatives of the SEM that the work there is very serious and must start actively from now on so that we can be ready by autumn of 2020 because otherwise we will have to tolerate sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. It's 11:40. We'll continue in a 30-minute recess. [[Noise and lines.]] We have a procedure, including lines and other speeches, and a statement from Mrs. Joteva, who is present at the meeting and has already signalled that she wishes to take part, so we will continue the meeting at 12.10 am. Thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u41	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. You have the opportunity to reply to Mrs. Sawateva's statement, which we ended before the interruption. Is there anyone who wants a line? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikoff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This debate has always been a little more violent and beyond the context of the report. Today we have the opportunity to talk about both the Report and, in principle, the state of the Bulgarian public space and the media space. Usually from this tribune at such moments there are speeches by Mr. Simov and other colleagues from BSP who have decided today not to come to work, but nevertheless it is good to say some things. As Mr. Rashidov said, this report in the Commission did not pass protocol. On the contrary, there were speeches, there were comments. This is one of the possibilities of a political tribune, such as parliament, politicians to say their opinion on the media. This happens once a year and today is the day. Today we did not hear about this famous 111th place on freedom of speech, which is located in Bulgaria and I was interested in what I would hear from the left at this moment, exactly in this context, in which all Bulgarian media are engaged in checks, with journalistic investigations, and sometimes with a lynch of politicians, only and solely of politicians, not of public figures! All public persons, with the exception of politicians, are exempt from responsibilities. With regard to the Report and the expectations of the SEM, which are always unrealistic because the SEM as an institution is expected to impose some kind of journalistic standard, there is no such institution as is capable of doing so if the media themselves do not impose a standard on themselves. During the past year, we also witnessed some media reports, reflections of events that came directly from the journalistic standard. The media was teasing people who suffered from accidents. This happened on Trakiya Highway. Reporters in the fight for ratings pressed victims of crime and failed to comply with the suffering and pain of these people. I hope all these examples are not forgotten inside the media, not among us and not among the audience, but inside the media they are remembered so that they do not repeat themselves. When we talk about freedom of speech, we have to be honest. Freedom of speech is no longer expressed in objectivity and in showing all views. This is not only happening in Bulgaria, it is happening all over the world, where there is freedom to own the media. Freedom of speech is already expressed in every media to have its position and to express it freely. I do not believe that Bulgaria is outside this world standard. And in Bulgaria there are different groups, media groups, different owners, each with their own interest, and everyone thinking first about their profit, because, colleagues, private media are primarily business, business that should be profitable and this is perhaps one of the unresolved problems of any public environment in which the media are free. That's the price of freedom. This does not apply to public media which are obliged to show different views. Personally, I do not have any major claims to the Bulgarian National Radio and the Bulgarian National Television there you can also hear critical positions regarding the government, you can also hear the views of the government. Unfortunately, public media are hardly enough to compensate for what is flooded with sensations, lies or half-truths public space. To what extent the media will be able to bear responsibility, this is also a very serious issue and it is still not at the Council for Electronic Media. The Council for Electronic Media may impose fines for certain violations of standards. These standards are very common and concern only some radical violations, but not the issue of the responsibility that Bulgarian media must bear to society, because, colleagues, politicians bear their responsibility at several levels. The question is because here we are talking about trust, which is the most important topic for a democratic state, because we are always discussing how low confidence in Bulgarian institutions is, perhaps we should ask: how high confidence in Bulgarian media is, because the rating does not lead directly to the conclusion?! The high rating of a television station does not directly lead to the conclusion that people believe it. Many people watch TV without believing what is said there. We have to tell each other that. We need to have this conversation frankly and call things by their real names. When it comes to business, we need to talk about money, when it comes to public causes or public responsibility, we need to demand because the media are the fourth power, and sometimes they are the first. We couldn't miss that responsibility. In my opinion, the media at this time are not responsible enough. This is not a criticism, because the less responsibility is borne, the lower the confidence, and the lower the confidence in some media, the worse the public environment will be. We need a minimum amount of honesty right now. We need a minimal amount of humanity when it comes to reporting tragic events. We need to check the news and information that is born on the Internet. The murder of the Russian journalist Victoria Marinova was a brutal example of how a false news could start from Bulgaria and travel around Europe. This false news, colleagues, was released by a website today doing journalistic investigations, which says who is good and who is bad in Bulgarian politics. This site is called "Bivol". I will probably become the subject of criticism, but my call is for the media to know that when the trust in the other three authorities is destroyed, they will not be removed, and the confidence in them will be destroyed, and when a media does not enjoy trust, it stops being media. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Mrs. Joteva asked for the floor. She is a representative of the institution whose report we consider is a member of the Council for Electronic Media. Mrs. Joteva, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u44	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs! I have quite technologically asked for the floor because I would like to continue what Thomas Bikov said, what we need. We have an acute need for a new law, a brand new or a fundamental change of the current one, which is 21 years old is morally and technologically outdated at almost every point from the first to the last. I would say that if you could imagine what the Law looks like, it is currently like the Council for Electronic Media. The Council for Electronic Media is an analog apparatus among iPhones and iPads that work with 5G, and a huge phone sits in the middle and tries to contact others Obviously, this problem has stood throughout Europe because the last two years have been very active and the new directive on audiovisual media services has been developed, which was adopted last year and uploaded to the EUR-Lex website on 14 November. By the way, this is the first time in the European Union that only 21 months have been given to the Member States for transposition of this directive. This means that it should become a law next September "October month. Today is the first day that a group gathers work at the Ministry of Culture with representatives of different institutions, including ours, with lawyers who begin discussions on the texts of a new or changed law. What is to be done is extremely important. First, it has to do with you recognizing sites as electronic media. The information that comes from the sites is much bigger and comes as a wave than the one that comes from television and radio, as a lot of people are informed only by the Internet. The new Directive provides for the monitoring of websites. What we talked about two years ago and was taboo and anatomy in the information technology world, in which each of us is practically a social media news agency, this will now be under the control of regulatory authorities. In other words, any site that has audio and visual information must be under the control of the Council for Electronic Media. This is the first and greatest change in the scope of the Directive. Next, what is envisaged as the most fundamental changes is the promotion of European works on the catalogues for request. The rate is said at 30%. It's also about advertising. It gives more flexibility when operators to broadcast their ads on TV. You know that now at each round part they have the right to broadcast for 12 minutes. Now, with this more flexibility, they will determine for themselves how long to emit by respecting a limit. Here I heard lines about how effective national regulators are for electronic media. As far as this is concerned, I would like to tell you that the new directive gives even greater rights to audiovisual regulatory authorities. Independence must be strengthened in European Union law and ensure that regulators are legally independent and functionally independent from governments, from any other public or private body. You yourselves understand that the European Commission is setting the directive, but does not say how it does not provide a methodology. That is, we have one year for public debate, about how exactly this new directive needs to be transposed, and it needs to be converted into a law. With what the Electronic Media Council currently has, we can neither monitor websites nor write laws. The trend in the Council for Electronic Media is to take retired people to work because young people do not stay because of lack of funds. What the whole European Union is talking about right now, namely media literacy, something that everyone is counting on is regulators running media literacy campaigns. We can't afford that either. We do what we can, and it is too small, as more than 80% of our budget goes to support our people and capital expenditure. However, let's digitize both us and the Council for Electronic Media and the Law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Joteva. There is an opportunity for Members of the National Assembly to take the form of a reply to this statement. Anyone? No requests. Are there any requests for speeches on the draft decision? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs from the couloirs. We are about to vote on the Decision. Project! DECISION on the activity report of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2018 - 31 December 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 39, para. 1 of the Law on Radio and Television HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2018. - 31 December 2018 The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: 91, none, abstention 4. The proposed decision has been adopted, and with this the Report of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2018. - 31 December 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u46	Let's continue with: HEARING OF A DEPUTY MINISTER THE PRINCIPLE OF THE LAW REFORM AND THE MINISTER OF THE OUTSIDE WORKS OF THE BENEFICIARY 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE STATEMENT OF THE INTERNAL MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY, THE TURKEY OF TURKEY INVOLVEMENT IN THE ACCEPTANCE OF THE LAW OF THE VEROISATION. Members of parliament Volen Siderov, Valeri Simeonov and Iskren Veselinov propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva on the statement of the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey Chavusoglu for Turkish intervention in the adoption of the Religions Act. Dear Mr. Veselinov, on behalf of the importers, will you present us with the occasion for the hearing? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, literally a few days ago the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey Mevlut Chavusoglu in a public speech made a scandalous statement and, I dare say, an insulting statement about us Bulgarians: Turkey was forced to intervene and Bulgaria had to submit changes to the Religions Act. This statement quite resonately caused a wave of resentment in the Bulgarian society and we can hardly give the words of Mr. Chavusoglu only to the election campaign, as they try to convince us, or to errors in translation, as the spokesperson of the Turkish Foreign Ministry assures us. In the same speech, the first diplomat of our southern neighbour said that if years ago Turkey was as strong as it is today, the events in the late 1980s and early 1990s in Bulgaria and Yugoslavia would not have happened. Of course, it refers to the so-called big trip and war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is also talk of Turkish military intervention in Syria, that is, a context which is an unambiguous threat to the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Bulgaria. All of this, along with the notorious boundaries of President Erdogan, the actions of the political forces in Bulgaria to instill ethnic hatred by creating artificial minorities, placing in a privileged position of a particular religion, arouses our concern. The facts presented make us think that recent events are part of a targeted policy in the implementation of the neo-Osmanist doctrine of Turkey's ruling Justice and Development Party. Justice requires that we note that this is one of the rare cases in which our Foreign Ministry did not close its eyes. There were also speeches and, accordingly, diplomatic acts, which clearly showed the Bulgarian position, but from "United Patriarchs" we believe that from this high tribune of the Bulgarian Parliament it is right to hear what the Bulgarian government has done and what does it think about this incident, which we believe is not innocent at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva, to inform us of the questions of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u49	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Veselinov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would agree with you that this statement is categorically unacceptable, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced, of course, immediately after a detailed introduction to the exact words. Also Prime Minister Mr. Borisov at a meeting with the Vice President of the Republic of Turkey made a sharp demarche. The same day, on my orders, the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey was called the next day. In a conversation with the Director-General, a sharp demarche was made again. As you have mentioned, unfortunately, it seems that before every choice in the Republic of Turkey is already put into practice, I would say that pre-election rallies should be used good neighbourly relations as stakes and at stake. Last year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also reacted to the President of the Republic of Turkey's statement about the broad borders of his heart. I would like to emphasise that, in the conversation in question, which, obviously, Minister Chavusoglu quoted in Tekirdag four days before the elections, at an election rally, obviously referring to a conversation on his initiative, held in December, something that is a normal practice in foreign policy, I would like to emphasise. Talks between foreign ministers, such as the normal channel of communication, are held regularly both by telephone and in the couloirs of various international forums, i.e. not only at bilateral meetings. In this conversation Minister Chavusoglu expressed concern that the bill is aimed at the Bulgarian Muslims. My answer was that the bill is aimed and its aim is rather to ensure equal treatment of all religions in Bulgaria and that if it were directed towards the Bulgarian Muslims, all other religions would not react and that the Bulgarian Parliament is entitled to adopt laws as it considered necessary. In addition to these demarches, the Prime Minister also made the ambassador official. In the couloirs of the meeting, I had the opportunity to have an informal conversation with Chavusoglu in Washington for seven years, and he reiterated what his spokesperson had actually said that his words were misinterpreted, that was not what he meant, that was a normal conversation between colleagues. Suppose that's some kind of excuse. Either way, the policy that the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry follows and will follow in the future is equal, non-interference in domestic policy. As we should not interfere, we do not want any state to interfere with us in domestic politics even before elections in order to tighten the electorate and win votes. This should not be done at the expense of good neighbourly relations, and as we should not allow ourselves, so we call on them not to do so again in the future. Either way, all necessary diplomatic action has been carried out. Also, Minister Chavusoglu's visit, which was supposed to take place yesterday, has been postponed for the future, we have not set dates. These are clear diplomatic signs with both the sharp demarches and the public and the ambassador and the prime minister, and in my conversation with Minister Chavusoglu. Again, I stress that in the statement made by his spokesperson and in the conversation with me he stressed that his words were misinterpreted. I want to believe that such statements will no longer happen in the future and that this will not interfere with the good relations between our two countries. Contacts are being made and at any level you know, we have data on the accumulation of migrants and around Adrianople, as was in Greece. Talks between ministers and not only between ministers, but also between local authorities, happen. Bulgaria, the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry and the Bulgarian government will not allow interference in our internal policy of any neighbouring or uncoordinated state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Honourable Members, from now on, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we begin with the questions. The first question is on behalf of the political party's parliamentary group GERB. On behalf of the BSP, you will not get a question, Mrs. Zaharieva, they are absent from the Chamber. You have a question. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs! I, too, would like to add to the opinion expressed by my colleague Veselinov that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and personally you were quite courageous and adequate about the nature and cancellation of yesterday's visit to the Turkish Foreign Minister in the Republic of Bulgaria. These are indeed steps that do not happen every day and which show an attitude, the character of a civilised state, a member of the European Union, which must have the power and the will to stand up for its national interests and defend its foreign policy positions. What I would disagree with is that this is an isolated case, and it is hardly only for election purposes that such statements, such rhetoric, have been used, since many examples have already been brought up in this direction. This is neither the first nor the last speech by senior representatives of the Republic of Turkey in relation to Bulgaria, the Balkans or the region close to the Republic of Turkey respectively. This is a policy that is a doctrine described documentaryly and which aims at precisely defined guidelines of action, of impact, and we see that in recent years, in which Recep Erdogan's party has ruled, the attitude towards Bulgaria and the Balkans is exactly such a thing and it has never been any different. In fact, we see a two-faced attitude in some of Erdogan's directions towards Bulgaria and the friendly gestures that have been applied for, good neighbourly relations, many times fall into such a confuse situation as is the current "to make unwarranted claims," to draw maps that affect Bulgarian territories, to talk about the boundaries of the heart and Bulgarian cities, which are hardly very close to the heart of the Turkish President. That is why we ask the question once again, although you have given answers to them through the media: has pressure on representatives of the Bulgarian government and political parties been put on the Turkish side if you have any information about the adoption of the Religion Act? As a sub-question: Do we have sufficient guarantee that Bulgaria is protected from external interference in the development of the overall political processes in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u53	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It didn't feel like pressure. If he thought it was pressure, it's not my problem. Not only that, my answer was that, I have already told you, the Bulgarian National Assembly is within its right to adopt and amend laws, as long as they do not contradict, of course, international treaties to which we are a party. It's no coincidence that he denied using that word in the conversation with me. According to him, the translation is incorrect. Of course we've come to know the exact words before making the sharp demarches. Not that we have no respect for the Bulgarian media, but when such heavy diplomatic steps are taken, you should get to know in detail who said what exactly. Either way, I personally notice that these statements happen at election rallies... mainly. This does not, however, justify them. I do not say that I justify them and should not in any way have any country to use and wager its good neighbourly relations, because we have seen it in other countries -- a neighbouring country to us -- not only one -- uses its neighbours. We must not allow that, of course, when it happens to us, we must react in the way we have reacted. With regard to the pressure on the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been shown and allowed. I cannot answer on behalf of the political parties. Regarding whether non-interference is guaranteed in Bulgaria, it is obvious that there are attempts and cannot be guaranteed. The question is whether we will succumb to these attempts and I am not only talking about the Republic of Turkey. So more importantly, there are different ways of communicating through diplomatic channels. We ourselves, too, recall, have reacted to bills of other countries when we believe that they do not meet international treaties and standards. This does not mean interference in domestic policy, it means normal diplomatic communication. We've done it, too. I will remind you of Ukraine and the Language Act there. You know that we repeatedly, even in writing, and in conversations, have wanted to defend the right to study mother tongue in the Republic of Ukraine. We have reacted at the time when we believe that we should react because international treaties are being violated or the rights of the recognized Bulgarian minority there are being violated one of the traditional historical minorities in the Republic of Ukraine. It is very important, not only us as ministers and as politicians, to build sustainability for attempts to intervene, but to build one in Bulgarian citizens too, because if they happen... they very often happen mainly before elections, it is very important that we, with our example, build sustainability in our population so that they do not succumb to the various attempts and forms of intervention........................ whether through false news, whether through propaganda, whether by trying to undermine the democratic values of our democratic family, as is the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Do we have any questions from the Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? We don't. On the part of the WOLF Parliamentary Group? We don't either. Second question from the GERB parliamentary group? I can't see. From the United Patriarchs? Dear Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u55	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! When the last amendments to the Law on Religions were seen in plenary, I asked colleagues from GERB why they were doing it, and it was so unpopular to accept these changes in all their three main points at issue. It wasn't rhetorical for me, it wasn't rhetorical for them either. I had an answer, and I knew that the Turkish side had put pressure on it. I'm still sorry I didn't say it back then, because this afternoon the scandal broke and the information agencies spread the news. Then I was pleasantly surprised, I say, by your actions that you have taken into account the problem at all. Things could have gone by. Even in the first one or two hours the intensity of information to the public was not so strong, things would have passed. That's where they came from, and the scandal blew up when you reacted. Then I asked myself the question: how would our neighbour Greece react in such a case? How would Poland react if Russia had made such a challenge to Poland? Although Mr. Lavrov, as foreign minister, frankly, I believe he would never allow such an action. They would have reacted much, much more radically than our Foreign Ministry. I tell you how: they would make a note, which is a higher degree of diplomatic reaction, and they could temporarily recall our ambassador to Ankara for consultations in Bulgaria, as is done in other similar cases of flagship intervention. You kept talking, I saw two or three times in your speech - elections, elections. There are no excuses in the elections for the Turkish country. This is consistent for decades, centuries, and for this country, which has been the host of an empire for 700 years, a matter of civilisational relations, of geopolitical relations, a question of the fact that this country as a dark cloud has been hanging over us and waiting for any such reason to attack us in any way. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Like it happened right now. My question to you is: don't you think that our reaction, after all, after seeing everything that happened, and some things have become indisputable, was too soft and inadequate for the challenge and the threat that has been posed to us?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u57	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Demarsh is the sharpest reaction that can be expressed to both the ambassador and the prime minister in front of the vice president and me when we met. Canceling a visit is one of the worst diplomatic reactions we can have. No, I don't think it was enough. I think it was quite indicative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' reaction with quite severe diplomatic measures. For example, today, Greece, as you mentioned it, said it would not react to every speech by a representative of the Republic of Turkey. Literally hours ago there was one again, I would say, a very difficult statement by a high-ranking representative in the Republic of Turkey against Greece. The Greeks refused to react. Depending on the situation, diplomacy determines what is the best way to react. As foreign minister, I would very much like to defend Bulgaria's protection and non-interference in domestic politics from any other country so zealously. For Turkey, we reacted adequately, as we always have, whenever anyone tries, and there are examples, before other elections, when visiting presidents and speeches related to our history. I would very much like us to react every time when it comes to trying to intervene in the domestic policy of the country, not only from the countries with which we have immediate borders. The reaction in my opinion was, and according to all diplomats, because we have discussed it after the public statement, the call of the ambassador, the Prime Minister's talks, the decision to divert the visit, but the unanimous opinion is that this is a sufficiently sharp reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u58	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Zaharieva. We move on to the answers of Minister Zaharieva. Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, I still remember those fine hours I spent with you in the Council of Ministers. You were sitting next to me...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u60	On the subject, dear Mr. Simeonov. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u61	...the gentle perfume, the light touch...... unforgettable memories. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u62	Lyric deviances.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u63	Dear colleagues, now quite serious. We, the United patriots, requested the hearing of Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva, because the words of Turkish counterpart Mevlut Chavusoglu are, first, unacceptable act of interference in our country's internal affairs, as well as to stand them in the context of the speech. I recall that the Turkish foreign minister in a public speech in Tekirdag said that Turkey was forced to intervene and Bulgaria to change the religion law. Not only interference in the internal affairs, such an act is also an insolent attempt to discredit parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. Insinuation that the National Assembly of a sovereign state such as Bulgaria writes laws under the dictatorship of a foreign state. The hearing was necessary to get acquainted with all the actions of the Bulgarian government as a reaction, as a response to the words of Chavusoglu, because such events must be reacted categorically and uncompromisingly. Such manifestations should be intersected in the foetus. Moreover, this is not Turkey's first attempt to intervene in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the past nearly 30 years, Turkey has not even concealed its intention to participate in the country's governance by supporting certain political parties. Here I will recall the role of the United Patriarchs in this process the fight for the scraping of DPS from power. However, not only through the DPS, Turkey is trying to influence and interfere in the country's internal affairs, it is also doing so through another anti-constitutional and anti-Bulgarian party, created under the direct leadership of the Turkish services, a party that rushed to the parliament, using the Bulgarian emigrants for the March 2017 elections. Bus caravans were prepared by the Turkish state and so-called...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u64	Dear Mr. Simeonov, I would ask you to enter into the answers of the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u65	Well, I've written it, how do I get in already? [[Laughter]] Besides, I have to argue for the strong finish I'm about to serve. [[Laughter]] ...pro-governmental exodus organizations to cross the Bulgarian borders at Malko Tarnovo, Lesovo and Captain Andreevo, Svilengrad and break into the electoral sections with a chemical number written on the newsletter of Svilengrad. Indeed, prepared by the Turkish state because they didn't have tickets for the trip and didn't even know how much it cost this time. They trusted us with a benevolent interrogation at the border, pardon, with a benevolent conversation at the border. Almost all of the first phalange were naturally pensioners, lied that if they did not vote for DOT, their pensions in Bulgaria would be suspended, so far successfully used by DPS. Retired, of course, who else would submit to such propaganda? The displaced people at working age naturally work on Saturdays and Sundays for their bread and do not care about the elections in Bulgaria. This is how we arrived, here I will now open a clamp, Mr. Chairman, to a famous scene: and she, like everyone else, wanted to do her job obediently and to make Bulgaria vassal to Turkey, but through the democratic mechanism of the elections. Grandma kamikaze! But I did my human duty to get her out of the explosive zone of the angry Bulgarian protesters.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u66	I'm sorry, Mr. Simeonov, I don't see this grandmother's connection to Mrs. Zaharieva's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u67	Now, two sentences and it's gonna clear your relationship. [[Laughter]] We stopped the crowds from Istanbul, Izmir, Edirne and Bursa, who watched with their breath whether the blockade would be breached. Today, DOST has come up with bold attempts to break our Constitution and wants the status of ethnic minority for the Turkish community in Bulgaria. We will not allow separation of the Bulgarian nation from a foreign country, which is why we came out with a sharp political declaration and protest before the Turkish Embassy. Here we are, essentially, categorically, we from the United patriots, that the Bulgarian Parliament not only had to listen to Minister Zaharieva, but also to demonstrate hard, principled and uncompromising actions by the Bulgarian state to show that Bulgaria does not allow and will not allow Turkey to intervene in our internal affairs. In our opinion, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken timid and indecisive action on the occasion of provocation. There was neither a clear protest nor a recall of the non-constant Bulgarian Ambassador Nadezhda Neynski of Ankara, only humiliating unsuccessful attempts to call Turkish Ambassador Hassan Ulusoy to a conversation. Modest demarsh had by the government and postponed Chavusoglu's visit to Bulgaria. We have not yet heard an apology from Turkey, but only reproached that Chavusoglu's speech was taken out of the context. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last sentence. In order to disgrace the actions of the Bulgarian government, Mrs. Zaharieva, we from the "United Patriarchs" propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria issue a declaration condemning the Republic of Turkey's insolent intervention in the internal affairs of sovereign Bulgaria, offering for this purpose the leadership of the "United Patriarchs" and GERB to hold urgent consultations and by the end of the week to come forward and propose a common text of the declaration. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u69	Mr. Chairman! I appeal to you with one request: once it was time for the second question from our parliamentary group, then it should also be given to the DPS if they had to ask a question, including the Volya Party, and the independent It is really important for us to be more persistent when such hearings are made and to appeal to all political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament in order to take this important issue into consideration. Including GERB, including DPS, who say they were Bulgarian patriots, including those from Volya, who say they were patriots, they did not take any part in the issue of the Republic of Turkey. It is important for us, as President of this Assembly, to insist that each of the political groups take their opinion and protect the Bulgarian national interests, including those who are not present by the BSP, who do not care at all about the Bulgarian national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Participation in the meeting is actually the result of the free will of each Member of the National Assembly. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u71	And procedure and attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u72	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman! First, in the way I conduct myself. The Parliamentary Tribune should not become a place for assessment of validity and insolvency. These assessments are given before some positions are taken. And as high as the mood is in the room, I think the issue we are discussing today is serious. What if you give me a chance to get involved in this?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u74	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u75	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! GERB did not ask any questions because the question was asked in the very wording of the request for a hearing................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In my opinion, we have received a clear answer. I believe that, in addition to the clear answer, firm action has also been taken. However, I would like to congratulate the United Patriarchs that this topic had to be raised. This topic should be asked and answered. However, I think it is difficult to speak publicly on it. If a foreign policy committee meeting were initiated, you would have received much more details on the subject. For me, there should not even be any doubt of interference in internal affairs, and if there has been an attempt to do so, it is categorically inadmissible. At all the international meetings I have been to and have been asked about our relations with the Republic of Turkey, I have always responded that Turkey is our good neighbour and partner in NATO and I say it absolutely sincerely. Turkey connects us both with geography and history and interests. I believe that interests should be followed by both sides. And since the neighbourhood is a long-term... it cannot be changed, I think it is necessary to clarify and resolve this issue, which has now emerged. That we have continued and consistently supported Turkey for its membership in the European Union, and most sincerely, and not hypocritically, I think that we should continue to do so. There must be reactions to any demonstrations of opportunities by Turkey to show that it could somehow interfere in the internal affairs of Bulgaria. In this case, the Turkish side has made several attempts to explain a misunderstanding instead of making excuses. After all, the Bulgarian government reacted adequately to the situation. I, too, would like to congratulate the Prime Minister for his patience at my meeting with the Vice President of the Republic of Turkey. From now on, some may interpret speech as an attempt to intervene, others as direct interference, others may say there is none. In any case, our immediate neighbours after the Bulgarian reaction should decide whether they will allow such statements from their top politicians from now on. I stress, or they will defend their claims about a policy of good neighbourliness and non-interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign neighbouring country and a member of NATO, such as Bulgaria. In this case, in my opinion, we are placed in a situation where we must stand before our constituents and clearly state as MPs who voted on this law that no personal interference has been made on us, and I, in my own name, can say that. Thank you once again, Madam Minister, for your clear answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-10.u76	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. I don't see anyone who wants to be treated. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] Professor Stanilov, an attitude has already been expressed on behalf of the parliamentary group, but you could... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] No, I think it's better in a private conversation... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] No, I wouldn't allow myself to go beyond the rules. [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] On another occasion, Professor Stanilov, I understand perfectly. Dear colleagues, this concludes the hearing of Minister Zaharieva. Thank you for your participation, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. And thank you, fellow Members. The next regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m., 11 April 2019 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
