ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u1	Colleagues, I'm opening the meeting. I will present to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 25 September 2019. There are very few points in the Programme. "1." First vote on Bills to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs; the people's representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs; the people's representative Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. The people's representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs are importing. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The people's representative Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs are importing. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 27 June 2019. 4. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. The people's representative Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs are importing. He was adopted in the first vote on 4 September 2019. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. That's point one for Thursday. 6. Draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in October 2019 Point 2 for Thursday 26 September 2019 7. Second vote on the Public Enterprises Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 3 July 2019. This is item three for Thursday, 26 September 2019. 8. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. That's point four for Thursday. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. People's representatives Slavcho Atanasov, Boriana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev, adopted on the first vote on 18 September 2019. This is item 5th for Thursday. 10. Draft decision to complete the composition and management of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova. That's point six for Thursday. 11. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer is the Council of Ministers, submitted on 20 September 2019. This is point one for Friday. 12. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. That's point two for Friday. 13. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on the compliance of the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. The contributors are the MPs Daniela Daritkova, Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov. That's point three for Friday. 14. Parliamentary control after the end of the legislative part for Friday, 27 September 2019 Please, voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. I'll introduce you to a few messages. Bills and draft decisions for the period 18 to 24 September 2019: A bill to supplement the Property Act. The representatives of the People's Representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft Law amending the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. The representatives of the National Assembly Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krasimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. It's a bill for old people. Importers supplied by the national representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the following committees: Committee on Budget and Finance, Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, Committee on Health, Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Draft declaration on the position of the Republic of Bulgaria on the European strategic long-term vision for a climate-neutral economy. The representatives of the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the following committees: the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) on 30 January 2017, Rotterdam. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio. Importers supplied by the national representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft decision to complete the composition and management of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. Importer supplier Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to impose a moratorium on any transactions in private and public government property and on actions concerning the conversion of public state property into private state property for a period of one year. The representatives of the National Assembly Volen Siderov, Pavel Shopov, Stanislav Stanilov and Yavor Notev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on the compliance of the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. The contributors are the MPs Daniela Daritkova, Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov. The draft decision shall be allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Culture and Media. [[(Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria: "Procedure"! Procedure!]] Is that what this is about? Let me finish with the messages and I'll give you the floor. Messages: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by its order has authorised: First, the dispatch and use of a helicopter with a crew of air force personnel from the Air Force to provide air transport to a group of soldiers from Krumovo Military Formation on the route Krumovo Airport, Petrovac Airport, Skopje, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Krumovo Airport, on 23 and 27 September 2019. Second, the dispatch of a group of soldiers from Krumovo Military Formation to the Centre for Pilot Training of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Petrovac Airport, Skopje, from 23 to 27 September 2019. The provisions of the Law have been notified to the relevant competent state authorities. 2. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces for the period from 20 September to 7 October 2019 on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will be held a joint Bulgarian-American training..Trakian Autumn 2019.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The preparation is not related to the conduct of military operations in preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military action conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. 3. In implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on Defence Cooperation and the Plan for Joint Bulgarian-American Training and Study in the country and abroad for 2019 from 24 to 30 September 2019, a joint pilot training will be held. Allied forces and funds from the United States Air Force in Europe will participate in the pilot training as follows: aircraft located in the air base The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. The notifications were received on 19 September 2019 with input numbers from No 903-09-60 to No 903-09-62 and were submitted to the Defence Commission. 4. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act was received Summary of the Report on the degree of implementation of the policies and defence programs of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army in the first half of 2019. ..unclassified information. The part of the Reporter representing classified information with a security graffiti is located in the Registry for National Classified Information of the National Assembly "Knyaz Aleksandar I" Square, floor 2, room 280. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and the Defence Committee. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 7 June 2017, under No 754, a group of MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria. 70, para. 1, t. 2 which concerns the early release of persons who suffer imprisonment for crimes committed in the event of a dangerous relapse. This law has been viewed and discussed in the Legal Committee, but until now it has not been included in the National Assembly's agenda, has not entered the Chamber. Dear colleagues, if the drafts of the BSP for Bulgaria were introduced in a timely manner, discussed and supported each other, perhaps we would not have reached the case of Jock Polfreyman who blew up the society and left the sense of impunity, injustice and tolerance for those who committed serious crimes. I therefore have the following proposal: to include a new item on the agenda, namely: the first vote on the Law on Supplement to the Penal Code proposed by a group of BSP MPs from 7 June 2017, because otherwise society will remain with the sense of impunity, injustice and tolerance of persons who have committed serious crimes, and citizens expect us to create such rules as to ensure justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u3	Thank you. Would you care to specify when you want it turned on? Just finish it. When? Now?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u4	Yeah, now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u5	Thank you. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Please, voting mode. Vote 166 MPs: 70 against 5, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. Is it procedure or re-voting?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u6	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u7	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, now is the time when we are looking at the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure to include our bill from 2017. Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! Do not run away from this responsibility, support our proposal, let us look at it in plenary. Society...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u9	Mr. Popov, an argument about the revoting without justification why.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u10	...of course, the public's got goose bumps about cases like Jock Polfreyman, so I'm asking for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. You didn't say you wanted a re-vote. [[Replications and excitement in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Re-vote procedure. Please, voting mode. They voted 165 MPs: 73, against 16, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. We will proceed with the first point: FIRST VOICE OF LAW PROJECTS FOR CHANGE OF THE PUNISHED-PROCESUAL CODEX. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, the people's representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs and the people's representative Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. Ms. Ilieva, you have the floor to present the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-01-60, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 2 September 2019, the Draft for Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-01-61, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 3 September 2019 and the Draft for Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-01-63, submitted by Veselin Naydenov Mareshki and a group of MPs on 5 September 2019. At its meeting held on 18 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-01-60, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs, the Draft for Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-01-61, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs, and the Draft for Supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code, No 954-0063, submitted by Veselin Naydenov Mareshki and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister; Mrs. Julia Mircheva, Chief Jurissult at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities (CEA) and Mrs. Vanya Georgieva, Head of the Department of the Directorate General of National Police (CEA); Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General and Mrs. Maria Shishkova, Deputy Prosecutor General; Mrs. Galina Toneva, Chairman of the Department, and Mrs. Milena Paneva, Judge. Mr. Philip Popov presented the reasons of the Bill for supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-60. He pointed out that the Bill proposes that the abridged judicial investigation, resulting in a reduction of the penalty, should not be applied in the event of deliberate death or serious bodily injury. It is proposed to maintain the possibility to conduct a shortened trial when the defendant and his lawyer, the plaintiff or the plaintiff and their chargers agree not to conduct an interrogation of all or certain witnesses and property persons, but to immediately use the content of the relevant protocols and expert conclusions from pre-trial proceedings upon delivery of the sentence. On behalf of the importers, the Law supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-61, was presented by Mr. Iskren Veselinov, who pointed out that due to the increase in the number of serious crimes in the country and the use by the perpetrators of the legal possibility of a shortened judicial investigation and the delivery of a lighter sentence, a new provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure is required. 369a. It is proposed that the shortened judicial effect resulting in a reduction of the penalty should not be applied in the event of intentional death or serious bodily injury. People's representative Simeon Naydenov presented the reasons of the Bill for supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-63. He noted that the Law aims to limit the scope of the offences to which the abridged judicial investigation applies. It is proposed that, by removing the most severe compositions from this proceedings, justice and balance be achieved in its implementation. During the discussion the representatives of the judiciary expressed their support for the three proposed bills. The Minister of Justice noted that it should not be taken away from the defendant to make confessions and to ease the criminal trial. People's representatives Yordan Tsonev, Krum Zarkov, Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Philip Popov, Smilyana Krasteva, Simeon Naydenov, Yavor Notev, Krasimir Tsipov and Anna Alexandrova took part in the discussion. The MPs expressed their support for the bills and stressed that they generally support the idea of limiting the institution of the abridged judicial investigation. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 17 votes for the Council, without the opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-60, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Nino and a group of MPs on 2 September 2019; - with 17 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-61, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 3 September 2019 and - with 17 votes for the Council, without the opposition and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-63, submitted by Veselin Naydenov Mareshki and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 5 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Presentation of the submitted bills in the order in which they were read. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Several horrific crimes that led to death have again made the debate about the scope of the abridged PPC investigation. This procedure was introduced in 2006 in an attempt to ensure speedy handling of criminal cases and to unload the criminal justice system. The aim was and remains to ensure that the process is speeded up and concluded within reasonable time limits in accordance with the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The rapid process is also important for victims who expect a fair sentence and on which this can open the way to their due compensation. However, the possibility of the abridged judicial investigation to apply to all crimes at that time. In 2006, however, caused social tensions and provoked a professional debate. Much of the people, including lawyers, consider it unacceptable and unjustly automatic imposition of lighter penalties, regardless of the severity of the crime committed only because the defendant has acknowledged the facts of the charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u15	Excuse me, Mr. Zarkov. Guys, it's loud in the hall! Please take your seats, stop these conversations in the room. If you'd like to step outside the room and talk. [[In the hall goes Minister Danail Kirilov.]] Welcome, dear Minister! Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u16	The feeling is required and I am glad that Mr. Minister is here, because this is an important topic, this and the next point, that the perpetrators do not receive fair penalties corresponding to the burden of their criminal acts. These public attitudes were also at the heart of a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure in 2009, which excluded from the scope of the abridged judicial investigation a certain range of violations. Unfortunately, after just a few months the majority of GERB canceled these restrictions, making changes in art. 58a of the Penal Code, which we will face today. Today we are obliged to find that the unlimited application of the abridged judicial investigation, combined with the automatic imposition of lighter penalties under art. 58 of the NK, in some cases, leads to violation of the principle of conformity of crime and punishment, and therefore hinders the achievement of the objectives of criminal justice. The abridged prosecution has its place in the criminal trial, it must not be completely denied. The question is to find the balance between the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time and the justice of punishment. Our proposed version of art. 369a of the PPC achieves this balance. It cannot and must not impose fair punishment, especially in cases of extremely severe acts of its consequences, be sacrificed because of the speed of the process. This is why the proposed new text of art. 369a restricts the application of the abridged judicial investigation in two cases: intentionally caused death and severe bodily harm. The limitation will apply only to one hypothesis of this procedure when the defendant has acknowledged the facts of the charge and agreed not to collect evidence on them, insofar as it alone results in the automatic imposition of a lighter penalty under art. 58a of the Penal Code. In fact, it is clear that the imposition of a lighter punishment and more precisely the mechanical editing of the punishment, if we use the expression defined by Professor Rumen Markov in his yesterday's article in Lex.bg, is the source of public discontent in some cases of particularly violent crimes. However, it is equally clear that without such a mechanism, the defendants will rarely choose the path of the abridged judicial investigation. Article 58 of the NK has been controversial theoretically since its creation. The question of its compatibility with basic principles of criminal law is repeatedly raised, such as the compliance of punishment and crime or individualisation of punishment. However, from the point of view of its initial objective,.. to stimulate the abridged judicial investigation and thus speed up the criminal process, it appears to be an effective instrument. Its change, and voices are also heard about its cancellation, should therefore be preceded by a thorough professional debate. It is best to do so within the framework of discussions on the new concept of penal policy, which we hope the government will finally present. Meanwhile, the right approach is the change in the Code of Criminal Procedure that we are proposing. It is also supported by the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office and is the preferred among the presented versions of the Judges of the VCC who gave an opinion and participated in the work of the Commission. We hope that you will also support it today, ladies and gentlemen, as we can move it forward quickly together, so that it can find its application right now in relation to those murders that provoked this entire debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Dear Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u18	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The importers of our draft amendments to the PPC are satisfied, as are our entire parliamentary group, the way the debate in the Legal Commission has been going, and the agreement that there should be a change in the Institute. The fact is that the abridged judicial investigation has become a constant source of tension, constant disapproval and a constant request to have justice from the relatives of the victims. In fact, the patriots of VMRO and NFSB have defended this thesis for more than four years. The reason for our proposals in the previous format of the National Assembly was precisely the meeting with relatives of victims, of victims who told heartbreaking things about the cruelty of the murders committed and about the impunity of these perpetrators. Screaming in this regard is the case of Veronica Zdravkova in Veliko Tarnovo, killed by a criminal who had been released from prison a few days before, tried on the speedy murder trial, and before that he had attempted murder. As they say, he was young enough in prison to be able to go out one more time and kill again, thanks to this abridged judicial investigation. Then we introduced a bill between first and second readings, which unfortunately received only 15 votes in the House... our own votes, but since then we have not stopped repeating that this institute should be reconsidered because it is in direct contradiction with the sense of justice of the citizens. The case of Victoria Marinova in Ruse also raped and brutally killed by a gypsy; the case of Alex of Byala, killed for a cigarette; with the 23-year-old woman raped and robbed by an Algerian to the horse base, the raped and beaten minor boy from the village of Hajredin and a number of other cases that simply shatter with their inhumanity. Public debate may catalyze the latest similar case with seven-year-old Christine in the village of Sotiya. It is important that agreement has been reached, although four years later we will take this step, which has long been expected of the victims of those killed. However, I use this case to remind you that patriots, as people with an acute sense of justice, have introduced other laws related to penal policy. This is the Inescapable Defense Bill, which passed at first reading, but still hangs in the Legal Commission. This is the case with the rethink of the petty theft, which is currently of little importance with two minimum wages of 1200 BGN and makes an unpunished majority of the criminals. Such a bill is also the preaching of radical Islam. So, colleagues, let's think about it. I only read a small part of the victims who might have been alive if the stricter repression had acted and made it clear to the perpetrators. Let's think about how long we can postpone these bills, because they will also make their contribution to living in a more secure society that believes in its judicial system and upholds justice. I hope that our bill will be supported, as we will support all other bills in this direction, because that is why a strong public expectation has been created.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. And the presentation of the third bill with importers of the National Representative Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. Who's gonna introduce him? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! A political party will support this bill. It is true that so far the current law allowed and gave the right to receive sentences more quickly, those who committed this kind of crime, but then it came to unfair, reduced sentences, which caused this violent public discontent among the population. For this reason, I believe that the bill is correct and our party will support it. In addition, I believe that there are other laws, other crimes on which the abridged judicial investigation should be abolished. Very soon our party will submit such proposals, as these acts with great public danger are not few, except those for which it has been proposed. There are punishments, crimes that are over 20 years old without murder or death, and I think that this kind of crime should also be limited to the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. We are continuing the debate on the Bill. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Members of the National Assembly, we will support all three legislations tabled to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, the project that we are bringing in now is exactly the same one that we submitted in the last term of the Forty-third National Assembly, and then there was no time to consider and be consistent. Unfortunately, we had to have consecutive cases of deliberately causing death, of applying the Institute of the abridged judicial investigation in these cases and, unfortunately, to the negative result for failure to comply with the objectives of the punishment set out in art. 36 of the Code of Penalty. The application of the general, individual prevention, namely to be a warning to society. On the contrary, we are signaling to the public so far that the perpetrators of some of the most serious crimes do not receive fair and subsequent punishment. Unfortunately, too short was the exception for the application of a shortened judicial investigation in cases of deliberate death and severe bodily injury from only 13 April 2009 to 28 May 2010 so that we can really assess the effect of this exception, which is again offered to our attention. This is precisely why this is the moment, and I see that there is also a consensus between all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament to change this situation. It is important to note that the criminal trial has as its primary purpose the detection of crimes, the exposing of the guilty persons, the proper enforcement of the law and the imposition of a fair punishment...................................................................................... 1, by comparing and comparing the emphasis with these bills on the imposition of fair punishment, not on speed. Indeed, the property must prevail over the speed of criminal proceedings, as fundamental constitutional rights, such as the right to life and privacy, are protected. Finally and last but not least, these bills also allow them to be implemented with regard to pending criminal proceedings, which would undoubtedly restore the disturbed sense of justice in society with regard to these serious acts against Bulgarian citizens. I call on you to support all three bills at first reading, and I believe that in an accelerated order they will also be adopted at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? There are no lines. We continue with the following speeches. I don't see any statements being made. Here you are, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u24	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman. It is clear to all lawyers that the issue is very legal. Without underestimated colleagues who are not lawyers, I don't think many of them will understand us. Perhaps rivers of ink have been discharged and many people have become professors and academics on matter and on matters that we are currently commenting on. Everything to me is a matter of philosophy and of the deepest institutes in criminal law and criminal trial. We are facing the existential and eternal question of the purposes of punishment. In different eras of the history of law, in different times in terms of criminal repression different objectives were viewed. Once upon a time, the purpose of the punishment was to punish the perpetrator, the perpetrator, the perpetrator. We have been through the time when penal repression, the penalty penalty has had the importance of general prevention to have such an impact on society and on any perpetrators that reduce crime under one section or another, by one or another text of the Penal Law. We are now in the time of liberal perception of penal repression and sanction, where we can generally talk a lot about it. The purpose of the punishment is not to unpunished the perpetrator, not the general repression, but to be such a punishment as to keep account of the child, his rights as a person. I, as a patriot and as a nationalist, as a conservative in my views, naturally, am very opposed to this approach and this philosophy, which has been going on for 30 years now, developing and has come to this point. It was a time when this liberal notion of law and criminal repression led to such anomalies that we are now getting to the first serious attempt to overcome this imbalance and this anomaly. We see what is happening, we see the unpunished actor, we see that there is no effect on society with the pressing repression, it does not come to the general prevention as it has been in certain legal systems in the nearer and further past. For me, all three laws are insufficient to get things back where they belong, where they've been, to go back to the time that criminal repression aims at general prevention, and not otherwise. This can only happen with the removal of this privilege, because according to the three laws the privilege continues, but in smaller sizes not so far. I believe that sooner or later we will get back to the old situation and overcome this failure of penal repression, which is about to be carried out according to each of the three laws that are being given to us. I will ask the question: could a faster procedure, a smaller commitment of the court, which will loosen his hands, deal with other cases, be a reason and an excuse for such measures and for such an approach that existed so far, and which half will remain in the future according to each of the three laws? The approach can be one and only in law. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The approach can only be to reveal objective truth and impose fair punishment on children. This has to be the starting point, because from now on...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u26	Yeah, I'm graduating!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u27	That was a sign of completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u28	Last one, Mr. Chairman. Even if a child repents, confesses his guilt, it can very often be for a reason to benefit from this privilege. Nobody's saying it, and that's not the objective truth. No one takes into account this fact that, even so far, in order for the child to pass lightly, recognizes the acts he has not committed, blames that he should not bear, and we come to the times of Vishinski...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u30	...here's a tool for you to recognize guilt and circumstances that are not present, as has been done for other reasons in criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u31	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB's parliamentary group will support the bills tabled by colleagues on the changes made to the Code of Criminal Procedure because we owe this to our society. We owe people a working model that includes a justified and effective punishment for serious crimes, and that is why we did not join our colleagues, bringing the change of a paragraph into the Code of Criminal Procedure. The discussion on the introduction of the abridged judicial investigation began as early as 2006, with the report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2007 stating that the cases continued for years, prisons and prison dormitories failed and requiring the termination of more than 275 thousand cases due to an expired limitation period, cases which were not resolved and the perpetrators were accordingly released. The possible removal of the Institute of Abridged Judicial Investigation in certain types of serious crimes will result in delays in the process and non-punishment of the child. Its dismissal will affect the victims of these crimes and their relatives, who are interested in carrying out an abridged judicial investigation, passing the sentence and issuing the civil action within a reasonable period of time. The swift punishment of the guilty will constitute timely retribution for the serious crime committed. As early as the 40th National Assembly in 2009 in the Committee on Legal Issues in the discussion on the issue of the Court of Justice, the removal of the abridged judicial investigation for the serious crimes has been brought to a debate. Here I would like to quote Mrs. Daniela Dokovska, President of the Supreme Council of Law, who then calls: "Please, the Members of the National Assembly, do not destroy this institute, the Institute of Abridged Judicial Investigation is in the interest of law enforcement. In this direction is also Mr. Rumen Nenkov's statement in his capacity as Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which points out: I would like to tell you not to be misled by seeking any other aspect, even manipulation of public opinion, of the fact that the abridged judicial investigation leads to extreme unfair criminal policy. At least I don't know this case, because in the last 15 years, we've only been increasing the penalty. I believe that we should not go back 10 years, when there was still no abridged judicial investigation, and the cases went away for years. Here we should explain to people clearly and categorically what will lead to the removal of the abridged judicial consequence of serious crimes. It is unlikely that any of the victims would want the perpetrator or murderer of our children to walk free while the legal proceedings are ongoing, to drag on the proceedings for years, with a vague verdict at the end, because also art. 6, p. 1 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and art. 22 of the Code of Criminal Procedure says: "The cases should be considered and decided within a reasonable time. We believe that people want quick punishment of the guilty, which for them will be timely retribution for the serious crime that has been committed. We must not forget what is the alternative to swift justice. Let's remember the brutal triple murder in the neighborhood of Geo Milev: a man, woman and their four-year-old child were killed, while the perpetrator makes confessions and describes in detail how he committed the crime, after which he changed his statement dramatically. The case lasted 16 years and was sentenced to 16 years in prison. Is that justice fair? I believe the loved ones of the murdered have been waiting for decades for a fair verdict. I do not think that is what Bulgarian citizens want. I think it is we who are obliged to explain properly to them what the removal of the abridged judicial investigation of serious crimes will lead to. It is with these arguments that GERB's parliamentary troupe has tabled changes not in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but in the Criminal Code and we believe that the introduction of the differentiated procedure The procedure established shall constitute a deviation from the standard model of the criminal trial. It shall ensure that the process is speeded up and completed within reasonable time limits. In the absence of a reduced trial, the case may last for ten years or more. Because of everything set out and in view of the people's wishes, we will support the proposed changes to the Criminal Procedure Code at first reading, but we believe that the abolition of the Institute of the shortened judicial investigation for serious crimes would constitute a step backwards in the efforts that the state has made in recent years to speed up criminal proceedings and reduce the period between committing the crime and punishing the guilty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-60, submitted by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 154 MPs: for 153, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-61, submitted by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 153 MPs: 153, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 954-01-63, submitted by the MP Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. Vote 157 MPs: for 157, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of the Work Programme: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Who will present the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs? Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 954-01-65, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and a group of MPs on 5 September 2019. At its meeting held on 18 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code by No 954-01-65, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and a group of MPs on 5 September 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister; by the Ministry of Internal Affairs Ms. Julia Mircheva, Chief Legal Consultant at the Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities. Mrs. Vanya Georgieva, Head of the Department of Metropolitan Management of the Investigation Activities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill was presented by Mrs. Alexandrova, who pointed out that it aims to preserve the institute of the abridged judicial investigation in order to preserve the speed that exists so far in the process, but in the event of violent abuse of the person to enable the court to have discretion in determining the penalty. It is proposed that the court, in determining the penalty for deliberate murder, serious bodily injury, fornication or rape, decide whether a reduction of the penalty is acceptable and, if permissible, not be more than one fifth of its size. A similar legal decision on the two most severe penalties in the Bulgarian legal system is introduced, namely: life imprisonment without replacement and life imprisonment, which provides for the court to be able to judge when determining the amount of penalties. The draft Law introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2017 on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union in criminal law, providing that the penalty for official misappropriation is also imposed when the act is committed by a foreign official. It is proposed in the Final Provisions of the Bill by supplementing art. In order to ensure the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) 2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of a European Prosecutor's Office, 411a of the Criminal Procedure Code of the Specialized Criminal Court with a view to the jurisdiction of the European Prosecutor's Office. The discussion was attended by the MPs: Yordan Tsonev, Krum Zarkov, Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Philip Popov, Smilyana Krasteva, Simeon Naydenov, Yavor Notev, Krasimir Tsipov and Anna Alexandrova. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Hamid expressed their support for the bill. The Minister of Justice noted that the defendant should not be deprived of the opportunity to make confessions and thus relieve the criminal trial. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Criminal Code, No 954-01-65, submitted by Anna Vasileva Alexandrova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 5 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. You have the floor of the importer's opinion, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal that I and my colleagues from GERB's parliamentary group in the Criminal Code have made concerns the Institute of the shortened judicial investigation to be maintained, but also to meet the public expectations of people to increase the punishment for deliberately causing death, severe bodily injury, fornication or rape. The Institute of the abridged judicial investigation was introduced in 2006 by reducing the process of proving in the judicial phase. A shortened judicial investigation may take the form of two different procedures and only one of them provides for a reduction of the penalty. It is bound by the recognition of the facts set out in the specific part of the indictment and by the consent of the defendants not to collect evidence of them. The idea of its introduction comes precisely after having to be terminated due to an expired limitation of more than 275 thousand cases in 2007 according to data from the Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2007 and all perpetrators have been released. With the proposed proposal, we aim to preserve the differentiated procedure under art. 371, para. 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which facilitates the proving of the indictment, as risks arising from a possible change in testimony or from the inability to conduct an interrogation of the witness before the court and to use his testimony from pre-trial proceedings are avoided. The defendant can only be acquitted if his act does not constitute a crime at all. Our changes are in two directions. First of all, what we offer at this point. Now the reduction under the Law in the recognition of facts and circumstances in the indictment is the reduction of the so-called punishment by a third. From him, we suggest she's one-fifth. Besides, we say it's not imperative. The decision must be taken by the court in determining the penalty, as we believe that the court is the master of the criminal proceedings in the judicial phase. He determines the punishment within what the Law defines him. Let the court determine the severity, the consequences of what has been done and then determine whether it is permissible for this crime to have a reduction in the penalty and if this reduction is permissible to be no more than one fifth of the size. Our second proposal. In para. 2, where the two most severe penalties are settled in our legal system. Life imprisonment without replacement and life imprisonment, we offer an equivalent legal solution. At the discretion of the court, the degree of the prescribed punishment may be reduced, i.e. to have a replacement from a life sentence without a life sentence or from a life sentence with a prison sentence of 20 to 30 years, but there will not be an imperative obligation for the court to impose a reduction of the penalty, but will take it into account both the established facts and the position of the participants in the process. The preservation of the differentiated procedure is a judicial consequence, aims to alleviate the judicial system and effectively use its resources by saving procedural efforts, funds and time. The procedure established shall constitute a deviation from the standard model of the criminal trial. It shall ensure the acceleration of the process and its completion within reasonable time limits in accordance with the requirements of art. 6, p. 1 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Art. 22 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which says: "Viewing and solving cases within a reasonable time. The adopted legislative approach corresponds to the guidelines given by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe with Recommendation R (86) 12 to overcome the excessive burden of courts leading to slow and poor justice, as well as to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg on the application of art. 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to the generally accepted international standard, a key indicator of the established guarantees of the right to a fair trial is the attitude of national authorities to the prevention of delayed administration, expressed by regulatory mechanisms for speeding up production. In this way, the principle of resolving the case within a reasonable period of time is also implemented, the judicial system is unloaded and funds are saved to the taxpayer. With the proposed bill, we believe that we will achieve a working model that we owe to our society, including a justified and effective punishment for serious crimes. The draft Law also introduces the requirements of Directive (EU)/2017/1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2017 on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union under criminal law, providing that the penalty for official misappropriation should also be imposed when the act has been committed by a foreign official. We also propose to the Specialized Criminal Court, with a view to its competence, that cases of competence of the European Prosecutor's Office be tried in order to ensure the implementation of Council Regulation (EU)2017/1939 of 12 October 2017 establishing enhanced cooperation for the establishment of the European Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The changes that we are dealing with mainly refer to Art. 58a of the Penal Code, for which we have already had the opportunity to point out some theoretical problems which lie before the legal doctrine and before us as a legislative body. However, I fear that the offer of importers will not contribute to solving these problems, but will create new ones, this time of practical nature. And at the moment, not particularly appropriate wording of this text will be further complicated with the creation within the same article of different penalties regimes. For all crimes, without the four explicitly listed, the previous set-up will have to reduce the penalty by one third. For the said four, the courts will be entitled to a judgment to reduce them by one-fifth. For the crimes, punishment with life imprisonment and life imprisonment without the right of replacement, the proposed amendments largely depreciate the existence of art. 58a, not at all. According to the Supreme Court of Cassation judges who participated in the Committee on Legal Affairs meeting last week, this will cause chaos. The changes were not adopted by the Prosecutor General, who also took part in the Commission's work. Despite strong opinions and justified criticism, representatives of GERB, Patriots and DPS supported these texts. I take the floor before you in the hope of correcting this error here, today, in plenary, because the adoption of this law at first reading would be a mistake. First of all, because it is incompatible with the Law, which we unanimously adopted a few minutes ago. There's no way you're gonna be able to support the drop of the abridged forensic investigation for crimes that have caused death or serious bodily harm, and now you're gonna put them in art. 58a. We decided together a little while ago that for these crimes art. 58a does not apply at all that there will be no reduction of penalties for them.. not by one third, not by one fifth, not by judgment of the court or without judgment of the court, are simply excluded. This is what we decided a few minutes ago, as mentioned several times, that the debate has been under way since 2006. Think about what kind of sign we're giving with such conflicting votes. If you have really been sincere in your desire to support the removal of the possibility of murderers and violent persons taking advantage of automatic reduction of the sentence just because they have acknowledged certain facts, then you must reject the proposed bill. The opposite would mean that this is another political focus in which those blackened citizens who collected thousands of signatures and presented them to the National Assembly play the role of the deluded spectator. Such a trick will not be accepted, no one needs it! We were faced with a clear question which had just received an equally clear answer. If we organize ourselves well and work constructively, we can adopt a final text next week to preserve the benefits of the abridged legal proceedings for most crimes and to protect the victims of the worst crimes from the frustration of the inadequate sentences of their executioners. Why does this decision we made have to be changed, I repeat, a minute ago, with another, and the opposite?! So someone doesn't feel like they're getting ahead of themselves?! So someone's ego won't get hurt?! So he doesn't feel like he's getting kicked out of a partner? My questions are for you, Mr. Minister, because you are the author of this text. You came to present it here in Parliament a week or two ago, you said in the Chamber, in the Legal Commission, that you have worked out or helped to produce this text. And you have to answer why you're entering the apartment. [[GRUNTING AND LAUGHING FROM GERB]] Parliament in a similar circus. I know when you hear the apartment, you get excited. [[Radio.]] Furthermore, the text that is being offered to us is completely harmful. Faced with dissatisfaction with a one-third drop in sentences, importers offer one-fifth. Wait a minute, this isn't some hamalian haggling, it's not bidding up or down! As far as the court's intervention is concerned, I don't know if the importers realize that, in their first sentence, they say they're trying to save the abridged judicial investigation, with this construction, they're practically destroying it. Why would someone agree in advance to admit anything if there is no certainty whether the judge will subsequently give him a lighter sentence or not? In fact, the more violent the crime, the less chance the court will agree to a reduction in the sentence and the less the defendants will benefit from this text! Which brings back what we just accepted that for a certain type of crime this procedure is simply inadequate. In fact, if we do not reject this bill, there are some criminals who will benefit from it, for example, because if we change the material law and not the procedural law, that murderer will be subject to a more favourable regime, that is, the automatic reduction by one third and the replacement of life imprisonment by 20 to 30 years. Three minutes ago, we found a solution. Let's not play and stick to it. It's not a theme of overplay. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! It is an extremely important topic that we are discussing, and not only because of the public response, and not only because of the wishes of the victims and victims of these serious crimes, we have to make important decisions today. How does the approach of importers of the newly adopted bills and the Law on Changes to the Penal Code that we are now considering differing? The public expects us to make an important legislative decision in the direction of perpetrators of such serious crimes to receive a deserved punishment. This punishment, honourable Members of Parliament, must essentially meet the expectations of those people who have suffered, namely those who are close to victims of such serious crimes. The approach proposed by the Law on Changes to the Penal Code is precisely such that it must meet the expectations that the actress of such a serious crime will receive his deserved punishment. When this institute of the abridged judicial investigation appeared, some of the reasons for its changes at that time in 2009, I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that they also received sentences below the minimum. Under the specified minimum! In 2010, when the amendments to the Criminal Code were drawn up, the text of art. 58a, this particular caselaw was taken into account, where it was clear that perpetrators of serious crimes received an undeserved punishment under the minimum. In my opinion, we need to think in the direction, apart from limiting the scope of the abridged judicial investigation, to see how the court can assess whether it should determine this deserved punishment. This is more important that we should try to achieve, because limiting the abridged judicial investigation will certainly enable victims' relatives to see that the perpetrators of these serious crimes receive their deserved punishment. But, on the other hand, the excessive limitation of the scope of the abridged judicial investigation will bring us back years when, as the pre-negotiators referred to, such cases were suspended due to an expired statute of limitations, the activists did not receive their deserved retribution, witnesses forgot what was given as testimony, whether in pre-trial criminal proceedings or in the judicial investigation. It is important today to find consensus so that, on the one hand, we can see how we can limit the scope of the abridged judicial investigation and, on the other, see how the punishment should be determined. It is very important to address this issue in the system of the head for determining punishment. It is very easy to limit the scope of the abridged judicial investigation to whether for these serious crimes, whether for some others, if we consider. Such a request was also made by previous Members of the National Assembly to draw up some catalogue of such crimes and not to be subject to the abridged judicial investigation. The more important question is, and this is what the public expects of us, to see how to determine the punishment so that the workers of these serious crimes get a deserved punishment. However, let us be clear that in public space today we are talking about recognition of guilt. No, honourable Members, this is not about the recognition of guilt. It is about the recognition of certain facts and circumstances of the indictment, and they give the opportunity, however, for the worker to receive his deserved punishment quickly. This is what we need to consider today: is it necessary, in addition to limiting the scope of the abridged judicial investigation, to adopt rules, to enable the court to assess whether to replace the punishment, whether to reduce it? Because that is what is important, that is what Bulgarian citizens expect of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Are there any lines? Two lines, Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tzipov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without underestimating the complexity of the matter and the themes you are putting, I cannot understand one thing. Did you just support the exclusion from the scope of the judicial abridged proceedings of a particular type of crime? You've been supportive. Now you're putting them in art. 58a, which, if excluded from this range, does not participate at all. What is the solution that we are making today on the deep questions you have raised? What do we tell Bulgarian citizens that the Bulgarian Parliament has decided today? How will the procedure continue from now on, given that these are two different laws that cannot be united? What do we decide today, which way to go, so that we can technically clear the texts? We cannot seek consensus in two mutually exclusive solutions! I think we found the consensus on the first point. Your inexplicability on this text is inexplicable, which, I am convinced, and many professionals have spoken, is not appropriate! It's not a good fit! I refer again to the Minister of Justice, whose authorship is this text: please, Minister, spare this exercise of Parliament, withdraw this bill. We've agreed on what needs to be done in the next few weeks. And we voted it without a single objection and abstention. This is Nonsense, the exact opposite of the decision we voted two minutes ago. [[(Reply from Minister Danail Kirilov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u43	Thank you. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tzipov, we still need to make a distinction, because this is not about removing the abridged judicial investigation, but about limiting it only to serious intentional crimes. In other cases, let's have it. What fellow Krum Zarkov said, in simple terms, the two laws are fighting. Both cannot be accepted, especially in the first part of the Criminal Code. In addition, in art. 2 of the Penal Code, it is clearly stated that this more favourable law on children applies until the entry into force of the decision. Do you know how many pending cases there are in court right now, those that haven't been filed... [[Reply from Minister Danail Kirilov.]] Mr. Minister, if you'd like to give me a line, please come in here, and not so we can yell at you on the side of the room, after all. The Constitution must be respected, but what you are proposing will lead to the inability of practice and to the application of the more favourable law, and it is such at the moment the Criminal Code, and the Criminal Procedure Code, that such murderers, as Sotiya's colleague said, will be able to benefit. And it won't be one case, there will be a lot of cases, because there are many pending cases - these are the first, second, third instance, which take many years. In these few years, each of them will be able to take advantage of the law now in force, the more favourable one, to make a deal, to acknowledge the facts and circumstances of the indictment and to reduce its sentence by not one fifth, but by a third, as it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u45	Thank you. A hole, dear Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, if I have to answer you formally, this bill is not only art. 58a, there are other things. If I have to answer you by nature, I must draw attention to the following. This is not about an agreement, as you addressed me, Mr. Popov, you were talking about a deal. Can you guarantee whether this person or that perpetrator of a violently deliberate crime is going to request such an abridged judicial investigation? Is it going to fall into the hypothesis of art. 371 of the PPC and how will the court rule? Let us draw attention once again to the fact that this is not about the recognition of wines, honourable Members of the House. It's not about that. That is why this institute is called an abridged judicial investigation! It shall not be dealt with in the preliminary phase of criminal proceedings. Yeah, different approaches. Our quest for changes in art. 58a is to try to meet the public expectations of obtaining fair penalties, as the perpetrators of such serious crimes should receive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I did not want to enter into the question.. an answer, but Mr. Zarkov was too persistent in this direction and purposefully sought to repeat the debate by the Legal Commission, which as a preliminary debate at first reading seems to me that, yes, he was oriented, he was emotional, but in no case do I think he was constructive and in favour of law. Mr. Zarkov, if we are looking for an effective legal solution, we must eliminate the political competition and political passion. There's no point in that. That is why we from GERB did not start to compete with populism. We didn't go to get victims of crime here and there to cry out MPs or to stir into the heart of shocked people. We're looking for a legal solution. Given that there are three identical bills, consider how parliamentary procedure will unite them. They're the same. What would the general report on these three bills look like? We tried because this debate is not being held today. It's been going on for over 10 years. We have tried to give the legal alternative.. I will not say the legal and technical solution, but I will say the legal alternative in the criminal context. You know well, but you keep it out of your speeches twice, but it is also important for people to understand the decision you proposed and which, yes, was adopted three or 13 minutes ago, or 15 minutes ago, which was supported, concerning the rule of procedure in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Our proposal, which I don't save, I don't run, but I don't impose authorship, Mr. Zarkov, because specifically the criminal justice matter is 25, even 30 years, and I stress that it's not my favorite legal matter. I'm a civilist, I think civilistic, and I wouldn't want to... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm listening with interest, colleagues. Yeah, yeah. You have the opportunity, there is a procedure, you will take an opinion and position. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Yes, I appreciate the work of all colleagues in all materials, whether I do this job or not. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] No, don't talk to me, Mr. Iankov. If you want to go back in the hallway or somewhere else, we can talk in any way you want. But let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u49	Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u50	We have given, I will not say, the alternative, but the other legal decision concerning the substantive and legal provision relating to the determination of the penalties the court carries out a complex activity, the court shall take into account many circumstances which it has established within the process and, in the context of the proof before it, the court shall judge and determine the penalty. Here, in fact, if we are to compare the two laws and the two legal and technical decisions, the big debate that colleague Zarkov saved you should be: do we continue to trust in the work of the court in determining the punishment? This question we have put to you is happening, it is not deliberate, but this debate is also under way on another case with your comrade's blood sacrifice. The public is asking: Are these judges and this Chamber right? Did they do the right thing? Was it necessary to reduce the sentence of imprisonment in a timely manner? These are all important questions, and we couldn't solve them if we elementaryized them. That's why they want a thorough debate. Thank you to all the penalist professors who joined this debate. And I was interested to meet Professor Markov's article. I have also come to know all the previous opinions that the Supreme Court of Cassation has presented on this matter. And I do not want to ignore Mr. Iankov's impatience to see you, but I would read you fragments of the Supreme Court of Cassation's opinion two years ago on the same issue, which describes how complex the intellectual, analytical, judgmental process is, which carries out the determining judge in determining the punishment. The importance of the abridged judicial investigation. The colleague Tsypov correctly noted: "We manipulate with a notion. The audience is not specialized, as said colleague Shopov. It's easy to fool in one direction or another. But yes, this isn't about admitting guilt. I will not abstain, Mr. Zarkov, and I will read the following: 115 " 119 of the Penal Code and under art. 128 of the Criminal Code is that as a rule they reveal significant factual and legal complexity and require the collection of a large volume of vocal evidence and the hearing of numerous different experts of their nature. This is inevitably linked to serious costs of time and means, because, in addition to having to be called and re-examined before the court, all witnesses who have deposited evidence at pre-trial proceedings and all expert conclusions appointed by the investigating authorities are very often required to collect new evidence. The challenge leads to the collection of new evidence in order to clarify circumstances that the defendant or witnesses report only during their interrogation in the course of the judicial investigation and also in view of the need for new tasks to be placed on the property. Furthermore, unlike the differentiated procedure under art. 371, t. 2 of the PPC, when the case is dealt with in general order, the defendant is not obliged at all to recognise his own involvement in the crime and the way in which he carried it out. He can deny his empathy. He may claim that the act was carried out in another way by other means, and may also benefit from his right not to give any explanations at all. Mr. Zarkov, this is the written statement of the Supreme Court of Cassation from two years ago. Last week, we heard an oral statement from two judges, which wasn't written. That's why I asked: how do they give that opinion? One was part of the informally formed analytical team, and the other was often involved in working groups. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, they are supreme judges, but in this college there are 70 and several supreme judges, and I therefore asked colleagues supreme judges. By the way, here because you are personalizing, colleague Zarkov, this idea, which is reflected in our proposal, of course, is not ours. It is drawn by the practice of supreme judges. Yes, colleagues from the Law Council at the Ministry of Justice contacted, and I contacted the Supreme Judges, penal judges: what would be the most appropriate solution? I accepted their advice, we developed it and I say again: in the context of this uniformity, three identical laconic laws, with no single sentence, we offered you a basis for reasoning not a basis for conflict. Here I will appeal for: to be alive and healthy, December will come I do not know or anyone else, but someone will present you with the new penal policy, i.e. the concept of the new criminal policy to look for intersections. It's a matter that's general, general. It is not a decision of BSP or a decision of GERB. I see you have a desire, you have potential, you have a bearing on these issues, and if we can unload them from the political contagion. I have refrained from using the concept of a colleague from the municipal council. To unload political hatred, I meant just now. That's what I'm done with, fellow Members. My advice is, yes, they're technically different. Legally logical, as a legal structure, as a legal institute, however, these are the two persons, the two instruments of one mechanism. Put them in debate at least until the second reading, listen to what the distinguished professors, the paranalists from practice, and the society, because today society also reacts to the actions of the fair criminal court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with speeches. Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! If a law is good, it doesn't change for decades. There are countries in which for centuries laws have not changed. With us, unfortunately, this is not the case, and very often we face constant changes that lead to nothing good. For this reason, especially for this bill, which was tabled by importers in the Penal Code, I cannot support it. I can't support it because it goes against the first law we passed half an hour ago. I'm going to ask the importers a rhetorical question: why did you offer to reduce the penalty by one fifth and not say by one second? If you really want to get a quick justice, reduce it by one second. How will the court or judge decide whether to apply a reduction in the sentences or not subjectively or objectively? This must not be judged by the judge, but must be governed by law.... either have it or be absent. For this reason, I cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you to all of you, from all the parliamentary groups, who supported the Bill of BSP for Bulgaria. We have shown consensus on a really very important and complex issue. I'm a lawyer, and I know what this is about today in this courtroom. I call on you, in the same way,... unanimously and without party decorations, to reject proposals from the Council of Ministers bill, or, Mr Minister, I am making a second proposal... withdraw the bill. My arguments about what I'm proposing. Let's see what reasons the Law of the Council of Ministers has been submitted in writing and spoken orally. First, it was said when submitting this bill that you are doing it as an alternative to the BSP Bill. There is no alternative on this subject. For a brutally raped and murdered child, the only alternative is retribution. And you're right, Mr. Minister, let's not put this political and party bias into it. Let's look at the situation objectively. I don't understand why every different opinion you get is political hatred and hatred. No, we just have a different opinion. You'll hear it now. The second argument with which you submit your draft law is that it will be very expensive to the budget and the judiciary, because in general terms the case requires expertise, costs and so on. What's the take here? Money or justice? We choose the second. You're thinking about the money, even in these cases. Your third argument is speeding up the process. They would delay cases, lapse the statute of limitations, and be terminated without a sentence! However, the speed of the process does not depend on the judges Don't transfer responsibility to the court! It's the legislator's responsibility. You say: do we have faith in the court? We do, but they're working on the laws we made in this room. You've decided there's going to be an abridged production. They apply it automatically by the current law. I am making a clamp because I have also heard accusations of populism, for the use of human grief, BSP is consistent in its position on this issue. Mr. Kornezov at the 40th National Assembly submitted such a proposal for dropping out of production, Yanaki Stoilov in the next National Assembly, now and we do so. We don't have any scruples consistent and we're solid in serious crimes, rapes and murders not to have a reduced production due to confessions and not to reduce sentences. You're telling us to comply with experts' opinions. Okay, the Attorney General rejected your law, judges and experts spoke against it, but where is the opinion of those people whose children, relatives, husbands, mothers and sisters were raped and murdered? When will their opinion be taken into account? I present to your attention the petition I could not bring it all because they are huge piles of folders, but the letter [[shows the letter]] To Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, President of the BSP for Bulgaria, National Assembly, we present to your attention the national petitioner, not only the people of Sotiya National, which contains 15 882 signatures, a week ago, are already over 20 in 634 pages. I appeal to Minister Kirilov, and to you, dear relatives of victims and victims, to come here and from the stands to apologize to you. He can't say that someone's driving you back and forth to make you cry, folks. We believe in your sincere desire for fair punishment to those who have laid hands on your children and loved ones. It's an insult to these people to say that someone's forcing them out. Go there. Go to Sotira, see what you're talking about. Then I'm gonna ask you if you're gonna cry, too? What is it about making fun of these people's grief?! To come here and apologize to them! Not the BSP, because it suggests that we drove them here, to apologize and withdraw the bill. I'm going to the legal side. We didn't check, we didn't succeed so quickly, we will, but I think you will make an absolute precedent in the work of any Bulgarian National Assembly. Within one hour, a law is to be adopted that eliminates the abridged production and a law that returns the abridged production. It's not even an hour! Some lawyer to come out and explain to us what a legal case this is! This is legal absurd! What do you imagine will happen to both laws from now on? Between the first and the second, shall we merge them? They're completely conflicting. I can allow you to either put them on logs and forget them, or at second reading you will reject the proposal of BSP, the Patriots and the Volya and you will accept your law. You're putting us in legal absurdity. You're being politically hypocritical and exhibiting moral misery. Withdraw this law! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 954-01-65, submitted by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. Vote 159 MPs: 97 against 62 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. The people's representative Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs are importing. You have the floor for the Commission Report, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 954-01-43, submitted by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 19 June 2019, adopted on the first vote on 27 June 2019. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u57	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u58	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs: Valentin Nikolov, Dimitar Petrov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 39 Finally, the rules on natural gas trading are added. 2. New t. is being created. 42 and 43: ..42. on a proposal from an operator on the relevant stock market approves rules for the operation of an organised stock market in electricity or rules for the operation of an organised stock market in natural gas; 43. on a proposal from the public supplier approves the agreement on the implementation of the natural gas exemption programme, including the pricing mechanisms therein; the Commission may amend or require an amendment of the agreement within a specified period; the Commission shall monitor the implementation of the agreement; 3. Previously on "T." 42 and 43 are respectively t. 44 and 45..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u59	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I can't see. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u60	Proposal by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 7 the words "the customers connected to the' shall be replaced by the person to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat' has been issued. 2. The creation of para. 6: For the purposes of price regulation under para. 1, t. 1 "4' in the composition of the costs recognised by the Commission shall not include costs for payment of prices for access to and/or transmission through the transmission, respectively electricity distribution networks due from electricity producers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u61	Are there any statements on the texts? I can't see. Please declare a vote on § 2. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposal under § 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u62	The Commission supports, in principle, the importer's proposal, but proposes that § 2 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 2 and a new § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u63	We are voting for the rejection of § 2. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u64	Proposal by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 and, in general, under points 1, 2 and 3. 4. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31b, para. 2 at the end of the year, electricity is added. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 33 is created. For the purposes of price regulation under para. The costs recognised by the Commission shall not include costs for payment of prices for access to and/or transmission through the transmission, respectively electricity distribution networks due from electricity producers. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35a is created. 3: s) The end customers and traders shall not pay the costs under art. Article 34 35 for the quantities of electricity purchased by a bilateral transaction and produced by an energy facility for the production of electricity from renewable sources put into operation after 1 November 2019, with the exception of electricity produced by an energy establishment under art. 24, p. 1 of the Renewable Energy Act. The manufacturer shall transfer the guarantees of origin referred to in Article to the final customers or traders. 34 of the Renewable Energy Act for electricity produced. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 after the word 2. In para. The 3th sentence first and second are amended as follows: "For the obligations of traders and producers under para. 1 for the current month a guarantee shall be provided in the amount of the product between the arithmetic average monthly value of the amount of electricity sold by them to final customers for the preceding 6 months and the price and/or price component in force at the time of calculation and/or the price component under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17. Where there is no data for the previous 6 months, the calculation of the collateral shall take the previous months for which data are available, in which case the amount of collateral may not be less than BGN 20 000. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: When the obligations under para. 1 shall be executed for exactly 12 consecutive months, the security for the month following that period shall be 50 percent of the calculated security under para. 3. 4. In para. 7 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." they have contributed up to the 25th number to the fund's bank account funds in the amount of the product between the arithmetical value of the amount of electricity sold by them to final customers for the preceding 6 months and the price and/or price component under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17; "Stephen'. 5. The creation of para. 13: The sellers and producers have no obligation under para. 1 for the quantities of electricity referred to in art. 35a, para. 3 which declare to the Fund up to the 10th of the month following the month to which they relate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u65	Are there any speeches, colleagues, on the proposed texts? I can't see. I vote on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u66	According to § 3 a proposal from Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1 in t. 6 is added at the end either to natural gas and to natural gas.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u67	Are there any statements on this text? I can't see. Please vote on the Commission's amendment proposal to § 3, which becomes § 7. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u68	According to § 4 "A proposal from Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 4" is canceled. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u69	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I can't see. Please vote on the Commission's proposal § 4 to be rejected. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u70	Proposal by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and, in general, in terms of t. 1. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 8 and 9: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), supposed waitresses under para. 2, p. 2 are grounds for issuing a building permit under art. 148 of the Law on Structure of the Area. § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74L, para. 1 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u71	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 8 and 9. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u72	The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95 para. 1 the words "Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "Member State of the European Union" and "Member State of the European Union" shall be replaced by "Member State of the
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u73	Are there any speeches on this text, fellow Members? I can't see. Please vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u74	Proposal by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal referred to in point (a) The Commission supports the proposal in the rest of it. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 11, 12 and 13: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 6 in the second sentence, at the end of the day, is added to the electricity. 2. In para. 7 after the word § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102, t. 4 at the end of the year, electricity is added. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103, para. 2 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the end of the year, electricity is added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the word The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u75	Statements? I won't. I will put the following texts to the vote: firstly, the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 with a text according to the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 14. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u76	According to § 6 the proposal of Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in a sentence first after the word 2. A new para is being created. 2: The natural gas transactions on an organised stock market in natural gas shall also be carried out in compliance with the rules for the operation of an organised stock market in natural gas adopted by the Commission. The rules shall be published by the operator of the organised natural gas stock market on his website. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 1 and 2 and the word "sales" shall be replaced by "sales" and the word "sales" shall be replaced by "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by "sales" and "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by "sales" and "sales" shall be replaced by "sales" and
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u77	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6, which shall become § 15. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u78	According to § 7 the proposal of Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 Finally, the transfer of ownership of natural gas to balance and trade of a physical point or virtual trading point of the gas transmission networks is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u79	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 7 by importer which shall become § 16. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u80	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. transmission system operators; (b) A new item shall be created. 9. Nine. a market-forming participant; (c) a new item shall be created. 11: "11." liquidity providers. 2. The creation of para. 2: The operator of an organised stock market in natural gas shall provide a platform for the trading of natural gas transactions between the Parties under para. 1. The operator may be a party to natural gas transactions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u81	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8, which shall become § 17. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u82	Under § 9, there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 176 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 s 3 are amended as follows: For the purposes of point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, the following definitions shall apply: (2) The public supplier shall enter into transactions with natural gas at freely negotiated prices as a liquidity provider, a natural gas trader and a market-forming participant. (3) The transactions under para. 1 and 2 with short-term standardised products and with products with a delivery period of less than or equal to one year shall be concluded on an organised stock market in natural gas. The mining companies offer not less than 15 percent of their natural gas in the country at the organised stock market for natural gas. From 1 January 2025, transactions in products referred to in the first and second sentences, with the exception of short-term standardised products, may also take place outside the organised stock market in natural gas. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u83	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9 which shall become § 18. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u84	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 176a is amended as follows: Article 1.76a (1) The public supplier shall offer for sale on the organised stock market of natural gas at least the following quantities of natural gas: 1. 2 220 GWh in 2020; 2. 4 281 GWh in 2021; 3. 6 342 GWh in 2022; 4. 8 720 GWh in 2023; 5. 11 099 GWh in 2024 (2) The quantities referred to in para. 1 shall be offered for sale under the terms and conditions of an agreement approved by the Commission to implement a natural gas exemption programme concluded between the operator of the organised natural gas stock market and the public supplier. The agreement also lays down the procedure for conducting the exemption tenders, the price exemption mechanisms, including for the starting price of the auction, the duration of the agreement, the types of products offered and their marketing periods. (3) The quantities referred to in para. 1 shall be released under the agreement under para. 2 and subject to the following conditions: 1. holding up to two auctions for the release of the quantities under para. 1 in order to ensure the security of supply to the country, the quantities are intended for end suppliers or customers connected to the transmission system of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. when determining the starting price of the auction, all costs of providing natural gas to a virtual trading point shall be included; 3. free quantities shall be purchased by final suppliers or customers connected to the transmission system of the Republic of Bulgaria, directly or through a natural gas trader. (4) For the released and unbought under para. 3 quantities of subsequent tenders shall be held with an increase in price according to the terms and mechanisms of the agreement under para. 2. Quantities are intended for customers in and/or outside the country. The public supplier shall dispose of the quantities not purchased after the last auction. (5) In the auctions under para. 3 and para. 4 may not participate in public service suppliers within the meaning of § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Commercial Law. (6) The quantities referred to in para. 1 shall not be considered to be a delivery under art. 178b. (7) The conditions for the implementation of the Agreement under para. 2 shall be reviewed every two years by the Commission. Where necessary, the Commission shall provide guidance on changing the conditions taking into account the liquidity level reached in the natural gas market.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u85	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u86	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, my question is to you because you are the importer of these amendments: how were these quotas fixed and does it even make sense to enter them into a law? Personally, I do not understand how these quotas were defined and why these quotas were not justified in the justification of the Bill, as there were them and at first reading, of course, there were percentages, are now in gigawatt hours, but that is not the issue. The question is: how are they calculated and why are they here, and if they are not fulfilled, what happens next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoynev, in fact this is the so-called Gaz Release Program and because this "Gas Release" program needs to follow some conditions for releasing the quantities from the public supplier, this should follow in the years of progressive increase in those quantities, in any case this progressive increase must be accompanied by some percentage of the total gas agreed between the public supplier and its suppliers. In the original version, these were percentages. It turned out that in public discussion these percentages could very hardly be calculated every year and could hardly be traced. Accordingly, the European Commission has also supported this way of extracting quantities from the public supplier, given the different experiences in other countries, such as Greece. For this reason, and for the purpose of monitoring by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the strict implementation of this programme in order to ensure liquidity on the natural gas market, it was calculated in this case on the basis of these percentages at the present time of the quantities available to it in the year and was calculated precisely in gigawatt power hours. That's why these numbers were calculated. To be honest, I don't see the point of the 11 099 should have been 11,000, but in order to perfect the calculations, they're just recorded like that. I don't think it's that big a problem. In fact, they must be laid down in the Law in order to force the public provider to ensure this liquidity, and this does not oblige the supplier to follow precisely these numbers. In the end, we must oblige in order to be able to provide liquidity and create this market that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 10 which shall become § 19. Vote 89 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u90	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: supplier of natural gas may be a market-forming participant or liquidity provider. 2. A new para is being created. 4. The public supplier of natural gas shall be a party to an agreement under art. 176a, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u91	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11, which shall become § 20. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u92	Members of the National Assembly, please take their seats in the Chamber. Mr. Nikolov, please present the next texts of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u93	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178b words by the public supplier are deleted and a sentence is created second: The supply of natural gas by the public supplier is a public service in the sale of natural gas to final suppliers and to persons to whom a licence for the production and transfer of heat has been issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u94	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 12, which becomes § 21. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u95	Proposal by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179 para. 2 is
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u96	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 22. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u97	Under § 13, there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "Member State of the European Union' shall be replaced by "Member State of the European Union'. 2. In para. 2 the words "the network" shall be replaced by "the network," through the corresponding changes in the transmission contracts, shall reflect "the network."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u98	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 13, which becomes § 23. Vote 95 MPs: 92, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u99	Under § 14, there is a proposal of the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189 para. 1 is amended as The Network Manager shall carry out financial settlement of daily imbalances pursuant to Commission Regulation (EU) No 312/2014 of 26 March 2014 establishing a network code for balancing transmission networks (OJ L 91/15 of 27 March 2014).), hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 312/2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 14, which becomes § 24. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u101	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. A new t. is created. 4. A virtual trading point of a is a non-physical entry or exit point of the network through which the ownership of natural gas can be transferred. 2. A t is created. 6a: 6a. "Gazov' is a financial instrument within the meaning of art. 4 t. 5, 6 and 7 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act when this instrument is related to natural gas. 3. A t is created. 16a: 16a. A liquidity provider is a person who has an agreement with the natural gas exchange market operator for the supply and demand of natural gas in order to ensure liquidity on the natural gas exchange market. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 24 after the words s/or heat is added s/or commercialises in natural gas. 5. A t is created. 34f: It's 34. A stock market for natural gas is the sum of all organised market segments operated and administered by the natural gas exchange market operator, including a segment of trading of short-term standardised products under Regulation (EU) No 312/2014, on which segments are entered into transactions with natural gas and gas derivatives. 6. New t. is being created. 51 and 52: "51." In addition, the Commission notes that, in the context of this Decision, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 52. "Segment day ahead' is a short-term organised electricity market with physical supply based on the principle of the auction on which the supply of traded quantities takes place the following day. 7. A t is created. 52a: 52a. "Segment within the day' is a short-term organised market for physical electricity, based on the principle of constant negotiation, on which the supply of traded quantities takes place on the same or on the next day. 8. A t is created. 66d: It's been a while since the end of the year. A market-forming participant is a person who has an agreement with the natural gas exchange market operator for the demand and supply of natural gas in order to ensure liquidity on the natural gas exchange market and for the formation of price signals. 9. A new t. is created. 67a: It's 67a. The point of reference of the network shall be the entry or exit point of the network to which natural gas can be supplied and accepted. 10. Previously on "T." 67a becomes t. 67b. 11. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 71 is finally added to the natural gas. 12. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 72 the words "Borsov Market" shall be replaced by "Borsov Market for Electricity."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u102	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the version of the Commission for § 15, which becomes § 25. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u103	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting on the name of the division. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The name of the division has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u106	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 26. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u107	Proposal by the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs to create new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says that the Bible is true. " (1) Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the operator of the electricity exchange market shall submit to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission rules for the operation of an organised electricity exchange market. (2) The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall approve the rules under para. 1 within one month of their submission. (3) Until the approval of the rules under para. 1 The rules applicable until the entry into force of this law for the operation of an organised stock market for electricity shall apply. § 28. (1) By 15 October 2019 the public natural gas supplier shall submit to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission the agreement implementing the natural gas exemption programme. (2) By 1 December 2019 the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall approve the agreement under para. 1 after a public consultation. § 29. (1) By 15 October 2019 the transmission network operator shall submit to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission an application for approval of a trading platform. (2) By 1 December 2019 the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall approve the platform under para. 1 and designates a trading platform operator. (3) The operator shall carry out on the trading platform activities for the organisation of a stock market for natural gas and for the implementation of the agreement under § 28 until the issue of a licence for the organisation of a stock market for natural gas. § 30. (1) The operator of the natural gas exchange market shall submit to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission rules for the operation of an organised stock market in natural gas within one month of the alignment of the acts referred to in § 26. (2) The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall approve the rules under para. 1 within one month of their submission. (3) Until the approval of the rules under para. 1 The rules of the approved trading platform under § 29. § 31. In the Law on the Protection of the Environment (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 t. 2 the words "the Minister of Environment and Water" shall be replaced by the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency; (b) in para. 5 in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Environment and Water" shall be replaced by the Executive Director of the Environment Executive Agency. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111, para. 1 t. 1 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u108	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal to create paragraphs 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u109	Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Madam President, if I may, here I would like to propose a new § 32, due to the fact that, if the Law enters into force, a vacuum will be created, a problem where, on 1 January morning, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission must be assembled and all the obligations that we have imposed on them in this law must vote on them. That's why we're creating a new § 32. If you'll allow me to read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u110	Please provide the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u111	"Paragraph 32: 1. By 31 December 2019, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall conduct a procedure to validate the price at which the public supplier sells natural gas from 1 January 2020 on the basis of § 2. 2. Paragraph 32 of the Commission's report becomes Paragraph 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u112	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 32 - text which has just been presented by Mr. Nikolov. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposal and paragraph have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u113	Under Paragraph 17, there is a proposal from the MP Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 33: ................................................ The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union with the exception of: 1. par. 2, t. Art. 1 and § 18 P.O. Box 76.A. 3 and 5 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020. 2. paragraph 19, which shall enter into force from 1 December 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u114	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the last paragraph of this draft law, the Commission's version of § 17, which becomes § 33. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposal has been passed, and so has the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u115	Madam President, if I may, in the form of a procedure, thank the Committee on Energy and all MPs, because this is a very important bill for liberalising the gas market. It was monitored by the European Commission and had representatives constantly. You know, Mr Juncker congratulated Bulgaria on this bill. We have been praised that he is an example of how public discussion is made on several occasions so that all interested parties agree with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u116	And thank you, Mr. Nikolov. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON THE LOANS OF PHYSICAL PERSONS. Importers: Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs. I ask the President of the Budget and Finance Committee to order the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u117	Report on a draft law supplementing the Law on personal income taxes, No 854-01-88, submitted by Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs. The Act for Supplement to the Law on Taxes on Incomes of Individuals The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u118	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u119	Proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be replaced by the following: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22c the following 1. In para. 1 the colon after the words. The text shall be deleted by the end of the subparagraph and amended by BGN 6 000. for any minor child. 2. The creation of para. 10: The monthly tax base under art. 42, para. 3 for employment benefits of beneficiaries of child tax relief is reduced by 500 BGN. for each child The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u120	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I examined carefully the transcript of the regular meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance on 18 September 2019, which examined this bill to supplement the Law on Income Tax on Individuals to a second vote. I was interested in what reasons was rejected the proposal, made between the first and second votes by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs from the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BSP) with 10 votes against the House, 2 votes abstentions and 4 votes for the National Assembly. But there's no motive. The President merely mentions a report from some working group that will not read, but the report does not support the texts of importers Stoinev and MPs. So I do not know what the motives of this working group are and I do not know the reasons for these 12 people from the Commission not to support the proposals to which I am an importer. In order for the MPs to understand what is being proposed and support the proposal, I will present it and try to motivate you to support it. The aim of the amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, which we tabled between the first and second votes, is to give greater tax preferences to working parents with children not over 18. As you can imagine, this is a measure aimed entirely at the demographic crisis. When we talk about stimulating the birth rate through aid, especially for social aid, we face serious criticism from both the government and part of the Bulgarian society. Social benefits are a diverse irritation for a part of society and are irresistibly causing negativity and populism. Those who do not work for one reason or another, but receive social benefits, including for their children, are declared privileged, distributed, including through the media, nonsense about how those who receive aid received serious amounts, even greater than the salaries of workers, accumulated from benefits and children for the birth of first, second, third, fourth and so forth children. So now look closely at our proposal. You will see that in it we turn this model from stimulating through social aid to stimulating through tax preferences. That is, we direct incentives to working parents. This is how we decide whether every Bulgarian family should receive help for their child or so-called children without income criteria. In essence, the proposal is to Chapter IV of the Law on child tax relief to increase the amount of the amount to be deducted from the annual tax base under art. 17 of the Law from 200 to 6000 BGN. for every minor child. Until now, the current restriction to three children, allowing multiple parents who work and pay taxes to benefit from preferences regardless of the number of their children. In practice, parents with one child will be entitled to a preference of up to 600 leva. per year, those with two children up to 1,200 BGN, with three to 1800 BGN. And so on. There is also a change in the method of using the offer, as so far the tax benefits for children were used once on an annual basis, now with the changes in Chapter VIII "Avans' deduction of the tax is given the opportunity to use the offer on a monthly basis or a parent with one child will import up to 50 BGN. per month less tax, the one with two children up to 100 BGN, and so on. The preference covers both parents with income from employment and with income from rent, business and so on. Why are we doing this? Because all parties and all politicians are talking about the terrible demographic catastrophe that has befallen us, but no one is doing anything. Only BSP makes consistent, systematic and reasonable proposals, but there is no one to hear us! The demographic catastrophe has been a fact for many years, and in our latest history, there are no existing policies to overcome this imminent threat. And the picture is very sad the decline of the country's population continues and the number of Bulgarians as of 31 December 2018 is seven million and thirty-nine people and that, unfortunately, is nearly 50 thousand less than that at the end of 2017. 955 in 2017 to 62 thousand. 197 in 2018, or it's nearly 2,000 live births less. Since there are statistics in Bulgaria, the only period with worse values for this indicator is 1995. We need to start spending money on dealing with this problem, because in 50 years we will be no longer a people. The Bulgarians after us will not forgive our inaction. For ten years GERB has been ruling, but you can't boast of any, but really no measure aimed at changing the desperate demographic picture. I can talk a lot and present more facts and statistics, but there is no use in talking. It takes action no matter who offers them, as long as they are effective and reflect positively on the negative demographic picture. I do not deny that the outcome of the demographic crisis is in a good social economic environment. I am convinced that if we fix the economy, if the economic environment improves, even though it will slowly start to improve the demographic picture. But until we fix the economy, are we just gonna stand there and keep our fingers crossed?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u122	The weather, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u123	Even though in the prime minister's fantasies there is an unprecedented and unheard growth in the economy. There isn't one. I will ask you to support our proposal because it will benefit the demographic picture in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs Jekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at a point and a proposal that is extremely important, and every day in this room to talk about the demographic collapse will still be small because we are not taking any action. Allow me to read a few samples from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences reports, from the report we saw last week on national security, from reports from scientists who talk about where Bulgaria is going: low birth rate, high mortality, ageing population. Bulgaria is a global leader on these negative indicators. With between 40 and 60 thousand people per year will reduce the population of Bulgaria over the next 20 years, predicts the Bulgarian Academy of Science. If there is no sharp change in the country regarding the standard of living, the migration balance will remain negative until 2040. In document-analysis, Horizon 2030. Demographic Trends in Bulgaria, prepared by experts, among whom associate professor Byrdrov, is said to be the only country in the world that has not been out of the three of the countries with a high negative natural growth rate of less than 6.5 million for 30 years. The population is ageing, the average life expectancy is lowest. Take a look at the forecast data of the National Statistical Institute and you will see that the population of Bulgaria for 30 years to 2030 will decrease by 1 million. 400,000. Souls. If we remember the debate two months ago when we proposed an amendment to the Family Aid Act for children, then the main debate by the government was that: the birth rate is not the main problem related to demographics and this demographic collapse. Yes, one of the most important problems is that we do not keep the young people in Bulgaria, that every day the flows of young, active working people leave the country and there are no incentives to keep them. That is exactly what our proposal is and in this proposal we reverse the model. We reverse the model by creating an effective mechanism for real support for parents who raise their children without state support and at the same time work, import taxes, insurance and thus contribute to the budget. We turn the model from stimulating through social aid to stimulating through tax preferences. Allow me to say that this measure, which we are introducing right now and I hope we will accept everyone because we do not hear motives..................................and why you are against.... will influence 755 thousand Bulgarian families who have chosen to live, to work, to give birth to their children here. The system of aid, as you say, stimulates people to rely on someone other than themselves. With this proposal, we reverse the model and allow families to feel capable that they can handle the situation, not that they are dependent on the state. I'm sure some of you will say: what about the funds that the state will have to set aside are the resources? This is an option for both parents to come to light with their income, because our concrete proposal is to deduct from the tax base and each month in a family with one child to enter 50 BGN. incentive through this tax preference. The other important thing that will reverse the model is that the income criterion that we have introduced for child support is currently gone and we know that very often this income criterion is tied to the fact that the mother is led alone and very often the father is not actively involved in the family budget. This is what our proposal gives both the father and the mother to come out with their incomes, to deduct this tax base, and in this regard to helping young, workable, active people who eventually choose to live here, to receive this tax preference, to raise their income and to wish to remain in the country. So support our offer. I hope we can all think about this, because the data from the National Statistical Institute shows something else. If we look at the age between 25 and 35 years from the data of the National Statistical Institute, it becomes clear that the lasting trend is that this population is leaving Bulgaria. Women between the ages of 64 and 69 are at most by national statistics, which means...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u126	Time, Mrs. Jeleva!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u127	...that we must take measures for the young, active, working population of Bulgaria and this measure is such. Please support her!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u128	Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines? There are no lines to that statement. There's a statement from Mrs. Jeleva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! As my fellow Member said at a Commission meeting where our proposal was being examined, this time there was no motive for why they rejected our proposal, which shows absolute irresponsibility. In each of our proposals for overcoming the demographic crisis, for aid to young families, for children, I will mention some of them, such as the one-off birth assistance of a second and third child, such as an increase in maternity benefit for the second year, with support for students from second to fourth grade, all these proposals being rejected on the grounds that only with financial instruments the problem is not solved, but it needs complex measures. Yes, we do, and we offer them, as we do today, with consistent policy. Colleagues, I welcome you now: let's start somewhere, let's take the first step and still have some experience, because there is none so far. Every year, we are anxious to note that the birth rate is decreasing at a scary rate. Since 2009, our country has been born with five thousand babies less. Yes, you will say that the birth rate in Europe is the same, but here is not the most frightening fact that then our young families with their children leave their homeland. This collapse is the most significant and affects mainly the representatives of the middle class of those who are educated, those who work. This category does not actually receive any state support and raises its children in Bulgaria without any financial support. This is put as a huge injustice of all my foster institutions that some of the layers of Bulgarian society turn this into politics, and those who pay taxes and work in Bulgaria receive no support. A week ago, we were looking at a proposal in the Committee on Labour, Demographic and Social Policy aimed at obtaining so-called child benefits from all parents regardless of their income. Okay, let's change and move on to a fairer pattern. Because you say that if this model is applied, all families receive tax benefits, it is unfair because it is done through the Social Aid Act and its philosophy is to support parents who need help. This is precisely what we propose, a fairer approach by stimulating, not through social aid, but by stimulating working families through tax preferences. Currently in Bulgaria, the tax preference for a large number of working parents with children not over 18 years of age is BGN 20. or that a day, notice, BGN 1.60. to raise a child a month. Currently in Bulgaria, as I said, this is the support of BGN 1.66. a month. With the amendment of the Law that we propose, we want this tax preference to be much more significant. The colleagues before me explained that we propose a month to receive tax relief from the taxes due for one child 50 BGN, for a second child 100 BGN, and only to a third child to receive these preferences. I will not dwell in more detail in explaining the reasons why we are making this proposal, because my colleagues before me have said very thoroughly about statistics, about the problem that is very difficult. So maybe in a little while you'll say, as always, it's politics per piece. On the contrary, I say again: this is a first step, because when you don't know where you are going, you go somewhere else, or as it is in the Bulgarian reality, nowhere and nothing is done, stalled. In time, honourable Members, all the infrastructure that is being created can happen this way, I hope I am not right that there will be no one to use it. For example, the opening of sports complexes, which are thus fanfarically discovered by cutting ribbons, and there will be no children to play, especially in small settlements. Only with populism children and parents do not eat, but policies are needed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u130	Mrs. Jeleva, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u131	Last one, I'm graduating. The question is: do you have the political will to deal with this difficult problem, the demographic crisis? I can answer that, but you answer the public by voting for our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Time's running, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u134	Please take Mr. Svilensky's time into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u135	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! We're looking at a very important law. Mrs Daritkova at the beginning of the plenary session called for dialogue, reached out for understanding, and in the name of a better life in Bulgaria, for solving the problems. Here is a problem that we need to solve together, which does not need to politicize.. there is no left and right, the problem... demographic policy. is for all of us. We all see it, we all have it in the election programs, and here we talk in pairs, we don't listen to each other, we don't have lines, we don't have duplicates, we don't have a single statement from the ruling majority. Yeah, maybe we're wrong somewhere, but let someone come out and say from this tribune, "BSP Colleagues, you're wrong." That can't happen, in this case it's not a working measure. The conditions are one-what-what-you-can-stand-at-the-clock, you look at your phones, you talk to each other in pairs, and not a single line, not a single statement. [[(GERB's reply: No, that's not the case. (GERB's reply:)]] This cannot, colleagues, be a parliament in which the problems of Bulgarian citizens are solved, cannot be a parliament in which you want to have a dialogue in which you want to have a conversation! Let some of the committees, someone who is against, come forward, the other one is a stubborn policy. And with a stubborn policy, there is no way we can deal with either poverty or demographic policy or crime or the Penal Code that you have watched the first and second points, and you have adopted two absolutely conflicting laws, only and only not to become what the BSP offers for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u136	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u137	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'm not going into any direct debate or debate. I'd like to point out some facts. The facts are that at the moment the Law provides for this type of benefits.. deduction of 200 BGN. for one minor child, BGN 400. for two and 600 leva. for three or more children. Colleagues' proposal is more than twice as high. Moreover, there is no upper limit, as is currently in the current law. I know that you are all aware that any change in legislation should be seen as part of the current tax policies and also as part of the social policy. For this reason, I would like to recall that the long-standing direct taxation policy is a low-tax policy for individuals and corporate, broad tax base and few tax preferences. Bulgaria has the lowest rate of income tax of individuals. Just for comparison, again with facts. The reasons of the importer of these proposals indicate the countries offering such type of tax relief as are a proposal in the Bill we are looking at. For this reason, let me list the countries: 55% in Austria, 50% in Belgium, 20% in the UK, 47% in Germany, 45% in Greece, 20% in Estonia, 45% in Spain, 43% in Italy, 20% in Latvia, from 17 to 32% in Poland, 19% in Slovakia, 45% in Slovenia, 15% in Hungary, 49% in France, 51% in the Netherlands, against the backdrop of our 10%. I think that I do not need to keep listing countries from the European Union in order to realise that with the low tax we have, there is no way we can provide more and more tax preferences. I'm sure no one will agree to increase the tax on people, and then, you see, we give them tax preferences. There's no way this thing's gonna happen because it's not gonna take care of the kids. Many examples can be given how a country takes care of its children and promotes their upbringing, only let us consider whether this is happening through tax laws or through other mechanisms. Let us not forget that social laws in our country offer a number of opportunities for people who really need help in this regard. Last but not least, the income tax revenues of individuals are the third most important source of revenue in the state budget. At times is the increase in the amounts that can be deducted from the tax base and will, of course, result in a significant reduction in revenues in the state budget. According to the Ministry of Finance, this is a loss for the state budget of 382 million every year, and this is more than the amount by which we increased teachers' salaries in the 2019 Budget. This is more than it takes for municipalities to deal with disasters and accidents, because money in the budget sometimes does not suffice, and that is what municipalities have said. This is more than the funds invested in recent years to build sports infrastructure. Let us not succumb to populism, to such suggestions, and let us reason wisely. When we make sure that certain groups of people do not pay taxes, that would not mean that we are helping them. This would only mean that we are damaging the budget and, as a result, the whole society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, with all due respect to you and to everything you have said, I kind of agree, only that it depends on your point of view. Firstly, I do not agree with the direction of your reasoning and the opposition of costs with other costs. You said there was no upper limit to relief. This is really our idea and the goal of not having a limit. Let all who work enjoy the preferences. You say it's the lowest tax base of individuals. I don't think people want us to raise their tax. No one wants to increase their tax, but we, as the National Assembly, are obliged to review the entire tax policy and see whether the taxation of individuals is the fairest thing in the world. Look around these countries, which you are quoting, the European countries, and the other countries, are there any other developed state that has a good social policy and encourages birth rates to solve its demographic problems with flat tax? From the parliamentary group, we offer you several solutions to this issue with a progressive scale that will not burden people who pay lower wages with lower incomes, but will burden those who take higher incomes, but you do not agree with such a policy on our part. Believe me, sooner or later you will have to get to this progressive taxation, because it is the future. You can't pursue other policies if you don't have progressive taxation. There will be a reduction in tax revenue, I tell you, if you do not change the tax scale of individuals. Again, let's not concern those who take a normal salary, but those who take too much wages. It's heard about some doctors who get 57,000. lv. salary, and they also pay insurance and income tax on BGN 2600.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u140	The weather, Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u141	Yes, thank you, Madam President. So there's a way to compensate. Now, even if you do not agree to accept our proposal, here comes the budget, you will have to have another debate on these occasions. Think of these things, don't throw them away lightly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We have to alternate groups. That is why I will give a second line to Mr. Ivanov and then again to a representative of the BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Regarding my colleague's statement, I absolutely agree with you that it is a complex of measures. Indeed, this policy must be dealt with in a complex way, namely, you have not mentioned the government's policy of increasing incomes, which has been repeatedly seen in recent years. It is also with the minimum wage, because colleagues really focus on people with the lowest incomes and those who raise children. That is what I wanted to point out because you missed it in your speech, and it is also important. Indeed, the complex of measures must be mentioned in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u144	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please specify who will make the third line. Mrs. Zhekova, perhaps you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u145	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I cannot agree with your finding that there is currently such a tax preference for working parents because it is symbolic. When you commented on the amount of deduction from the tax base of 200 BGN, mention with the specific how many eventually go to the parents. Annual, BGN 1.66 monthly. Is this your tax preference? When you talk about tax increases, dear Mrs. Angelova, there is no such proposal anywhere in our proposal. We're not suggesting a tax increase. Where you find that we have removed the threshold after the third child to receive such a tax preference? What better offer would it be if a family with high income decided to have more than three children? Shouldn't that be the incentive, such the vision of the National Assembly? to encourage people to receive higher incomes and give birth to more children? You are contradicting yourself at the moment, pointing out that the other countries you mentioned had a higher tax. They have a higher income tax, Mrs. Angelova, yes, but all the other preferences, if you have studied what they give to families with children in these countries, you will see that the incentives are far greater. We're talking about a complex approach. I'm tired of this word, you're only getting away with it, ladies and gentlemen of GERB. What kind of complex approach if at some point we don't decide that we're leaving here? According to demographic trends that stand out, exactly 10 years from now 20% of Bulgaria's territory will be free of laborable population. This is exactly our step to bring back the young people. If we look at the minus of 350 or 300 million. lv. in the budget now, tomorrow the added value of returning young people will be much greater because 500 leva. BGN 700 incomes for young people in Bulgaria are not enough to live normally. Our proposal is that way. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u146	The weather, Mrs. Klisurska. Thank you. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Gokov, you will again have the opportunity to offer progressive taxation, as last year and the year before, when we look at the State Budget Act. It is obvious that with the proposal you have tabled, you are now trying to achieve some kind of progressive taxation. I want to say to Mr. Ivanov: yes, you're right, Mr. Ivanov. Only one tax cannot be considered in isolation so that any change in tax policy can be made. Mrs. Klisurska, the lower or higher tax is not an incentive for birth rates. There are extremely many other factors. The options are two: a low tax rate of many additional preferences, not related to tax, but related to social laws, or a high tax rate and many tax preferences. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Any other speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Because we are here called to adopt laws that are in the interests of the people who protect their development, I just want to tell you what we want and what you are against. This is actually the dividing line between the BSP for Bulgaria. We're about giving birth incentives. We are about young families having more money so they can look after their children. You're against it. [[GERB lines.]] That's right, you're against it because you don't accept our proposals. Our proposals were very well argued earlier. You view social policy as spending, and we view it as an investment in the future with this particular proposal, because in this way, by stimulating the birth rate of young people, we will have more population, we will have a larger basis than to collect taxes to speak your language. You're against it. We want Bulgaria to develop, to be younger and to have more young children, more youth. You don't want it. That's what separates us from you. I very much hope that, now that you have thought about it, you will understand that what we are proposing is an investment in the future and in the youth of Bulgaria, and for some reason you do not agree with this investment. It is your right to reject this decision, but because of your policy and you will bear the consequences of the ageing population of Bulgaria, of the reduction of the number of taxpayers, and ultimately of the fact that in Bulgaria there is really more and more increasing deserts. The choice is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The very fact that Bulgaria is the fastest disappearing nation is clear to absolutely everyone. Maybe we as MPs should be ashamed that we're not doing anything. There is neither an epidemic nor a war, and the Bulgarian nation disappears. Nearly five thousand from 2009 are fewer newborns every year. After all, since 2009, we continue to talk the same thing, that see if there is no need for incentives, there is no need for preferences, and we need a complex approach. Of course, we need a complex approach, but to ask: what have you done in the field of education to help young families? [[GERB lines.]] What have you done in the field of health to help young families? Here, these are complex approaches that complement precisely those that concern personal income tax. We in the opposition have repeatedly stated that such an approach is necessary because countries such as... [[GERB lines.]] Of course, for you this may not be important, for you these countries are just a number of... Austria, Belgium, Great Britain, Germany, Greece, Estonia, Ireland, Spain, Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, France, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic have seen and have similar incentives in taxation. However, in Bulgaria we say: no, because, you see, we had a flat tax. However, I ask: will we continue to refuse in this way any incentive for young families? Notice, today the help for every child who is not 18 years old is BGN 20. per year or BGN 1.66 a month. That's a shame! That's a shame, considering the state is really disappearing. Maybe in a week we'll put in a bill. Every European country stimulates those who are up to 26 years old, so we propose that we look around and wake up, because this measure is national. It's a cause for young families, for young parents. This measure will benefit the middle class. It is not intended for those who stand in line on the 26th of the month and withdraw their social benefits from the ATM. This measure is for working parents. We have to figure this out, because in years, it's gonna be too late. Now you have to give the beginning. You see what unity there is when you have to spend billions, but for one such measure, which, by the way, is not as much as the Ministry of Finance says, because they do not cover those children who are already abroad. We can truly unite and make a similar approach to stimulating and supporting these families. This is not about the opposition proposing it, and you agree or are against it. This is about a disappearing nation, and it's in all the documents. The more we sit and bury our head in the sand, we won't solve this problem. Let us start from one thing, as all European countries do. I understand that you do not agree with Bulgaria, for example, to set an example, because perhaps you have low self-esteem, but see what is happening in Europe. This is the measure and this is what they do in every developed European country. I can't figure out why we're giving a kid a little more than you are, a little more than you are. That's not the real incentive. The real incentive is for the state to show that it stands behind working people, behind those who earn their living, behind those who pay their taxes, behind those who do not hide income, this is the middle class. Let her finally feel that statehood. And this statehood, dear colleagues, comes from here, from parliament. Let us start a bill to be passed to show that we have the will and give our hand to Bulgarian citizens, young families and, of course, the children of Bulgaria, who are the future of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u152	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that with the power of rhetoric and the high timbre can in no way convince us Mr. Stoinev. You're here as a politician. The biggest demographic crisis began after November 10th. The most alien groups of Bulgarian population had in 1989. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Bravo": "Bravo!"]] See and check. Thanks for the applause, but that speaks badly of you. Then, in 1996, many Bulgarian citizens and young people saw what perspective you gave them and also left. So when we look at a problem, we have to look at it in depth. Secondly, I'd like to say health care. Political party GERB is the party that takes care of young families and families who do not have the opportunity to have children to remind you of the Invitro Programme. I think there is no way you can forget it every year, the funds for the Invitro Programme have increased and we have reached a point where it has no financial limit. Perhaps you missed that in your preparation for this statement? Last but not least, I would say that, in order to be able to spend money on pensioners or children, the national domestic gross product must be high enough to be able to give all these remunerations, all these incentives by starting from birth, for education, for social policy. Only with you two and two, you never make four like medicine. First, the economic indicators that you can never reach. Never, when you were in management, have you reached such financial results, I mean gross domestic product. Populism is pouring in here right now. There's a gentleman here right now who reads and never looks people straight in the eye. I mean, about economic indicators, you teaching us how it's done and how it's increasing... [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Thank you. Make a line for me. Thank you. Behave yourself. I'm moving on. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Yes, Mrs. Ninova, thank you. I'm finishing my speech, and that's all I have to say is that one has to do a thorough analysis...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u154	Please don't go into any further explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u155	And the last thing I want to say... I'm not yelling because other people are yelling. I'll say this has nothing to do with... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing the sentence. Economic indicators and birth rates are not directly dependent. Remember that from me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Damyanova, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u157	Dear Mr. Stoinev, honourable colleagues from BSP! I think that on the subject of education you can only keep quiet [[Applause from GERB]] or justify your claims by facts. I'll remind you. I know good things are quick and easy to forget, and maybe that's why we should remind them more often. I would remind you that this is the sector that is not just a priority for us, but which invests the most money for decades. I will also remind you of the support for young parents and the measures that have been put in place: in the first term of office, free care for children from 1st to 4th grade, introduced by GERB since 2009; free care for families and support for the development of children; interest activities only in the first term we have invested over 100 million. lv. for the development of children's talents and interests. Whose support is this, Mr. Stoinev? Shall I continue? Investments in teachers to support children and take care of their better education. I can keep enumerating, but I'm afraid two minutes for a line won't do me any good. I really ask you, when you talk about education, to point out facts, because everything else is populism and empty talk, and I don't think we should get into a political dispute on this subject, because no one is profiting from it. I will remind you again: free activities for children; free activities for their talent development; support with regard to psychologists, logos and other care for children in school. All this is done by GERB! Perhaps by comparison you should point out at the time of Mr. Oresharski's management how much money did you invest in education? How much was the single cost standard increased in schools? I will remind you with zero leva because this is the year, the only year since 2009 where we have zero leva increase in teachers' salaries! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Mr. Bikov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u159	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. Dear Mr. Stoynev, in my opinion, led in this way, the debate will not lead to anything significant. Here again, some of these got mixed up in different directions, which is caused by birth rates, which is not demographics. Demography is a much wider element. It includes mortality, life expectancy, infant mortality and so on. The birth rate in itself per capita is not that low. There are few people who are giving birth because they are now giving birth to the generation of the 1990s. That's where the big problem is, because there aren't many of these people. We harvest at the moment the fruits of what was planted in the '90s is happening, and it is problematic. That's why she has little children born just because she has little mothers. Secondly, you define it as an entirely social issue. Birth and childbirth is not a social issue, because in the poorest layers and in the poorest communities there is the highest birth rate. But that doesn't even mean that there's such a high growth, because there's also the highest infant mortality and the highest mortality rate in general. Birthing a child is, above all, a cultural issue, a question of attitude. And to this cultural question you propose as a social measure the fall of taxes. Once again, through taxes, you want to make a social policy that you always try to do. You mistake the tools that can solve this problem, which is really complex. We could now do something whose result will be seen in 20 years, because this is demographic policy. You say, since 2009, less children have almost begun to be born. No, there's the same number of children in families, but families are less because people are less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u161	Thank you. It is good that you answered and that we can have a debate, because in the end it is not normal for such an important bill to speak only to the opposition. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, is important because it is a state policy for us. And as you said from GERB, it is a complex approach and therefore covers areas such as education, health care and social assistance. Of course, there should also be tax incentives in this complex policy. For Dr. Ivanov, I can say yes, of course, that any program that leads to the promotion of birth rates has been supported. It is a good thing that there is no dispute in this, as under the Invitro Programme, but this cannot be the end of helping young families. It is evident that we are the only country in the European Union that, honourable Members, there is no children's hospital and we are wondering which hospital to close, to restructure to have a children's hospital. I leave aside the fact that you pointed out the undisputed macroeconomic results that there were times when three years in a row we had more than 6% economic growth. But in the end, it depends on the economic cycle and on the incentives that water, if you want to pursue a policy that promotes consumption in order to increase growth and attract investment. Mrs. Damyanova, of course, when you invest in schools, when you increase the salaries of teachers, something that is good, we have supported it. Colleagues, we have to look for results when we invest money in something. There is no way to be proud of the results of Bulgarian education when 41% of children up to 15 years of age are functionally illiterate. This, honourable Members, means that when they read a text, they cannot obtain the information they need and use to achieve their goal. This is scary! And it's in reports! [[GERB lines.]] Whoever calls means he can't read. That's the problem. That's it! Your policies do not reject them, we support them, but understand, it is not just a matter of giving them, you must also look for the effect of this so that the quality is truly improved. To Mr. Bikov. That's why I said it was a complex approach. Important, as you said, is not only the birth rate, but also that the demographic crisis is life expectancy and mortality. But at the same time let's not go into these indicators, because there will be a lot of digging and, I assure you, the results are not in favor of Bulgaria. Colleagues, just one number: in 2009 81,000 newborns, 2018 53,000. No matter how many policies you make, here are the real numbers. That's the problem. We say that, not to pick a fight. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. We offer you an approach and we believe that it is the winner. No matter how much you talk, these are the numbers, which is scary, which leads to the disappearance of the nation and the country. There must really be a union here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, today we have once again convinced ourselves that the insolence, this arrogance of the BSP, of the BCP, of the repainted communists continues and I do not know how many more generations will continue. It's supposedly young people here. It's the same arrogance, the same insolence and the same insolence. Three moments for crises and treatment in Bulgaria. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You've given them a reason. There is an MP here, I see him, his grandfather, the secretary of the party, absolutely honorablely stood and announced to the people: After November 10th the party oriented Bulgaria towards capitalism of the worst kind.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u164	Mr. Gurnevsky, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u165	That's the truth I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u166	Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u167	I'm on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u168	Get to the point at some point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u169	And that capitalism drove 2 million young people out of the country and kept chasing them. These people aren't here to give birth and have children. I didn't say that. After that. The first 20 years of the transition, another prominent MP of yours, I do not see him here, publicly came out and said: "The Nomenclatura after 10th November plundered all that the Bulgarian people with blood and sweat built. "So if you hadn't done this wild capitalism according to your confessions if you hadn't looted the state, today there would have been enough money for all the sick issues to be resolved. At 300 leva. minimum salary at your time, at the end of this term will be BGN 750.; at 600 BGN. average, today in Sofia is 1800 BGN. That's what it's gonna be like for the whole country. In order to give away the pie, it has to get mixed up, there's got to be something in the tray. With 180 million for people with disabilities that you've been talking about here all year, it's now 450 million. When the numbers speak, you should be quiet a little bit. And the third argument. Mr. Stoynev listed countries from Eastern Europe, which are now in the European Union, for their high standard. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You forget one thing only that at the beginning of the changes there those peoples banned their communist parties, lusted their society, started building a modern economy and today are well. Therefore, the mistake of Bulgaria and the old right hand is that once and for all those who plundered it and created wild capitalism in it did not end forever. So a little shame! Shame on you in front of the Bulgarian children and young people who are abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u170	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I'm tired of doing Mr. Gurnevsky's lines. However, Mr. Gurnevsky, those who looted in the 1990s were from your party, the SDS and the DSB. You were a two-term mayor of this party, weren't you? I thought you were two terms of mayor. [[Reply by National Representative Spas Gurnevski.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u172	Mr. Gurnevsky, please, you will have a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u173	The ones you're talking about are in this part of the room. Let's be honest. I do not want to say them by name, they are in the leadership of the Political Party GERB. Who are you talking about?! I wasn't a member of this party or any of their nomenclature. You're throwing charges at the whole group. Shame on you! When we talk about a demographic problem, when we talk about birth rates, when we talk about helping young people, you bring us back to 90th year. Is that what you've been doing in this parliament for three years?! Is that why the Bulgarian state pays you to come out of this tribune and destroy, spit and criticize?! Come on in a little bit, if you can, on track, in class. We are gathered here to talk about policies, not to return the time when you were mayor of Plovdiv, you were expelled and you never ran again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is there a second line? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gurnevski, I will read you a sentence from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Report on Demographic Trends. He says: 10 years ago, 10 years ago, 100 Bulgarians in retirement age other 124 Bulgarians entered active age. Currently this coefficient is 100 to 62 and in Vidin, Gabrovo and Smolyan is about 100 to 40. How will you respond to this trend, dear Mr. Gurnevsky?! I'm sure you'll answer me. The young people, the hardworking ones, are leaving Bulgaria. And this is our suggestion that we give some air to the young laborable population who wants to live, work and give birth to children in Bulgaria. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Third line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, are you even in class, are you in this room? Do you know what the BSP proposal is about? If you don't know, I'll tell you about it, and when you do the doppelganger, take a position on the proposal. We propose to reduce the annual tax base by 6 thousand. BGN, from which in every Bulgarian families for an adult child will remain 50 BGN, and for two of them 100 BGN, and so on. That's what you're talking about! What are you talking about 90 years ago and then? Tell me who's been in charge for the last 10 years, Mr. Gurnevsky. Who's been in charge for the last 10 years?! Tell me, what have the last three governments done for the country's demographic crisis? Well, comment on that, and don't talk to me about communism, and I don't know what these anti-communist tricks don't work anymore in Parliament. I'm very surprised. There are a lot of thinking people in GERB's parliamentary group, and after your speech you were applauded and I do not know why. I appeal to all colleagues from GERB the more you let Spas Gurnevski speak from this tribune with his cave anti-communism, the more the Bulgarian society against GERB is set up. Believe me if you want to, but do one of your research, and you'll see it's true. I'm telling you that we can't go and ask for consensus, but for any reasonable proposal of ours to be contradicted by arguments, comes Spas Gurnevski or Toma Bikov and starts blaspheming against communism and anti-communism of the nth degree. It's not gonna work like that! From now on, we'll need policies. You won't be able to fool the people with who's bad and who's good anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u177	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I said at the beginning of my speech was confirmed again. I listened very carefully to the debate. You are here looking for a solution, pointing out the consequences of the problems created, but these consequences have reasons. I got up and I told you what the reasons are to get here, and you can't deny that. In the first row, the leader of your party is an active participant in privatisation. The arrests are full of billionaires, all associated with your party, are being prosecuted and investigated. They've been looking for them all over Europe. Half, not half, one third, if you return from your thieving party, there will be for everyone and everything! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The third and most important thing, Mr. Gokov, who says what... [[Loud noise, screams from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u179	Yeah, yeah! Mr. Gurnevsky, may I ask your language to be consistent?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u180	I will tell you for ten years GERB heals the wounds of your government and ten years the people do not choose you, but choose GERB, so GERB heals the wounds of your government so that you can speak... And another ten will rule until he heals the wounds of everything you've done to this people! And the arrogance and arrogance she stands in the front row in our hall and is a candidate for mayor of Sofia! [[Replyings and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u181	The way you're leading it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, to you in the manner of conduct. Indeed, it is quite unpleasant that after this statement, whether it makes sense to have such debates about demographics at all, because when we go back so many years, it is unlikely that any of us can say that they are guilty and that someone is guilty. That's not necessary. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] It's about looking ahead and thinking about the next generation. Too bad, really, colleagues! Look, this is a debate that I myself said that no one is...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u183	Mr. Stoynev, let's do this in the manner of conduct, take the note to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u184	No one denies it when something is done, but also when there is no necessary effect, it should also be said. In 2009, there were 80,000 birth rates... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u185	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u186	Then it doubles!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u187	Turn to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u188	And the question, Mr. President, is that when we are going to fight over what was the 1990s, before that, you understand this is driving the focus of the debate and shows that this Parliament is unable to broadcast a single policy precisely for the future of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u189	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u190	And it is your fault, Mr. Chairman, that you allow such speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u191	It's the way it's supposed to be. You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the calmest tone, I would ask you to punish the Member of the National Assembly for his insulting qualifications not only to the front row of our parliamentary group, at all, to the entire group. There was talk of insolence, and all sorts of similar words were used in his cot, in his speech. You didn't respond essentially to the lines, and because of his insults, I urge you to give him the appropriate punishment. Speaking of insolence the man and blaming our group the man Septemberan wrote poems. In fact, he does not know that GERB has managed for ten years because it changes parties, not to say like what. And his own party did not elevate him then, for a second term as mayor, so that this man gives assessments to an entire parliamentary group, that is brazen. Mr. Chairman, we insist that you punish this MP because once again he is mocked by the stands of the National Assembly and insults the group of the BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with our rules, you should exercise your powers and control over the conduct of the debate. It is clearly written in the Rules that a MP who deviates from the topic in the debate, first, is reminded of it, then remark and so on. You didn't do anything about it. Whenever Spas Gurnevsky comes out, it's never on the subject. And I'm wondering whether or not to refer the Ethics Committee to Parliament, because this is repeating itself all the time. And there's a reason why this thing should be done. Mr. Gurnevski is constantly replicating our parliamentary group, speaking offensively to us with qualifications to the party. It is a party, a Bulgarian party, a Bulgarian Socialist Party registered under the laws of the country and our Constitution. Mr. Gurnevski has no right to behave in this way towards a party that has won a million votes, and to every Bulgarian citizen who has voted for this party in the last parliamentary elections, so, dear Mr. Chairman, make at least a remark to Mr. Gurnevski, otherwise you become complicit in this disgraceful act. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u195	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I wouldn't want to be an accomplice, as you've noticed... Again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My remark is to you, Mr. Chairman. As former colleagues, I call on you to be braver and, apart from being braver, to be fairer. And don't look at the National Assembly as a mediocre cataclysm [[crowd cheering and chirping]] Who doesn't fine those who drive Lexus, but fine those who drive Hyundai! You should know that after today and those with the Hyundai we can become interesting! My remark is serious to you and to you is to apply the Rules as it is, and to do justice to all Members of the National Assembly, not one to interrupt, but another to put in conditions to speak what it wants. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria. Replices.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u197	Someone's gonna piss me off... [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Manev! I'll give you the floor. Wait, because right now, as a mediocre walker, I'm trying to come to my senses! [[(Radio.) Replices.)]] And I'm asking you, when you come to this stand, be really careful. You have the floor, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u198	Mr. Chairman, I went out on this stand after a long time of thinking whether to go out and make a remark to you, but you, in fact, with your last lines that you have made, have made this point meaningless. You see, when you are tolerant of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and their speeches...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u199	I strive for everyone, Mr. Manev, to be tolerant.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u200	Let me finish, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u201	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u202	When you're tolerant too much of the people who got off the subject first, to the people who accused us that we couldn't read when you compromised them and missed this case and things got to the point where these very same people made remarks to you from this tribune. I won't go into details of where I see your mistakes, because you are the chairman. I'll just say: colleagues, whatever knocked, that's what called! When you come to this stand and start screaming and insulting MPs and entire parliamentary groups, accusing them of whatever and not getting an answer from the chairman, the result is that some of these parliamentary groups will become a member of parliament and answer you. They can't help but remind you of the things you do when you keep acting like the really old communists whose congresses you continue as numbers! [[Replys on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u203	Don't tell me what I have to do and please sit down! I have an opinion on that. To speak, Mr. Angelov. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski wants the floor. Loud noise. Line. Explanations of the stands between the Members of Parliament and the Chair.]] I've already given the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that this debate should have taken place at first reading when discussing the philosophy of the Bill. Unfortunately, on the left-hand side they say that every time the government insults them, attacks them or spoils the debate. On the contrary, 90% of the time you do it. Unfortunately. You are not looking for a common position on certain issues that are important to the state, you are looking for how to have a scandal in parliament and to draw political dividends. It's a fact. It is you of your party to talk about the demographic crisis is little, how can I say, unnatural, because the huge problems of the demographic crisis in Bulgaria have been set since 9 September 1944. [[Loud noise, shouts and lines on the left.]] Because you remember very well how you took, your party took away the people the land, took away their shops, took away their carpenters, took away their dairy and everything else. You remember very well that you drove the people from the villages to make them workers, to put them in the panels, and in their place you settled in small towns, in villages, people from the Gypsy ethnicity, and that is why on 9 September, I have said it before, in Bulgaria there were 60 thousand people from the Gypsy community, on November 10th there are 600,000! Ah, tell me, who's to blame for this? And how were the Bulgarians banished from the villages? Because during the Bulgarian Revival it was the Bulgarian villages that made the demographic boom. The demographic boom of the Bulgarians is from the Bulgarian villages. You drove the people out of the villages. That's a fact. And the problem has been at stake ever since, and you know that very well! I'm not saying it's just you. It is in all of us as politicians, but when you go out here and talk about demographics, you have to talk objectively and say: we have allowed this and this, you have admitted this and this, you have not done this and this. Let there be at least a little honesty and morality in politics, because the really huge bomb was planted then. And that's a fact. That is why the villages in Bulgaria are in this state at the moment. The people are gone! Because, again, you put them in the panels and that's a fact! How many kids to make in the panels? [[Radio.]] Where to look at them? On the terrace? [[(Loud noise. (Laughter)]] But it's the truth! Why do we have to keep this quiet? Why should only one be guilty and the other be sinless? And the rest, and I'm finishing up. On the occasion of the Bill, which has been tabled by Mr. Sabanov, this is something positive, something that is also desirable to employers and so on, something that will help to some extent can be very minimal. And in recent years, really, in the previous parliament, and in this Parliament, and now the majority is working, it may not be like a comprehensive, complex demographic program that will never happen openly in Bulgaria, because there is no understanding and there will never be, but the point is that measures that are positive and are against this bad trend should be supported and not sought under the ox. And I'm going to give you another little example that we've done in the last two or three years. Out of 450 students from abroad, Bulgarians of Bulgarian origin, in two and a half years we have increased them by more than two thousand who apply under Decree No 103, Bulgarians. Each year, two thousand Bulgarians from abroad are studying in Bulgaria. Their scholarship is double compared to two years ago so that they can have an incentive for these children to study in Bulgaria, in some way to support themselves and stay here! Here, these are the good examples. Maybe they're a piece, maybe they're not enough, but we do these things, and what have you done?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u205	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. First line Mr. Popov, second line Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking of colleague Angelov is a brilliant example when there are no real arguments how to speculate with history. Dear colleague, in socialist or communist times Bulgaria was 9 million. How much is it now? About 5 million. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Because what? Who has ruled the last ten years, dear Mr. Angelov? You're part of this department now. Nine million, five million! It was a good thing it was the panel, Mr. Angelov, because in the middle of the last century it was a solution. If it wasn't for those panels, people would be sleeping in tents at your station right now. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP]] Because they can't afford bread to buy, let alone a place to live. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u207	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, my reply is related to what you commented on. "Why is this project not at first reading? There it is, it was submitted on 14 June and is assigned to committees, only it is not admitted to the hall, dear Mr. Angelov. I'll remind you of last year's budget debate. Do you remember all your arguments by the United Patriarchs against our proposals regarding support for young families? Do you remember that you offered us a debate to be held at the beginning of the year and at the end of the year when we vote on the 2020 budget, to have policies aimed at young people, in support of young people, in detention of young people? This is our proposal, but on your part I do not see any concrete proposals, because you have made a request that they will be there, but you have not made them. Consider the submitted bills by our parliamentary group and you will see that we are active and act in this direction. On your part we expect you to support us because these are policies for the young, hardworking people of Bulgaria, for everyone. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u209	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Third line, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u210	Dear Mr. Angelov, I generally agree with the basics you have said, but I think it was not enough and you need to develop your thesis in several directions. First of all, that Bulgaria, unfortunately, never became 9 million because the communists ruled over us. Since the 22nd natural growth, if memory serves, we have dropped to a negative natural growth at the end of this communist government. Secondly, because these people with adequate economic policy drove 2 million Bulgarians out of Bulgaria. It's natural for birth rates to fall. And last but not least, because of the inadequate economic policy that keeps the population on the brink of misery for years, so that we can now be the poorest nation in Europe, to be the last in all the rankings, after a few winters that have been successful, after a few winters. [[Noise and lines.]] This whole complex of factors undoubtedly affects the demographic situation in Bulgaria and the solutions cannot be palliative. You can't push in here and get a result. Demographic measures shall be adopted by one 20-year period. Now there are some people here who want to show themselves very active on the subject, but in fact they should be ashamed of what their party did before them. [[Private applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u211	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vesselinoff, you're right about what you said. Yes, I just want to think, if with these BSP governments that you mentioned, for Bulgaria there was no visa regime for Western countries, would there be a million Bulgarians left at all?! That's all you can think about. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] After the Lucanova, Vidin's winter, that for Oresharski, would Bulgaria be visa-free to the United States, Canada, Western countries and the European Union remain a million Bulgarians then, after your rule?! They wouldn't have stayed! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They wouldn't have stayed!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u213	Give it to me now!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u214	Since Mr. Gokov is calling from the hall: Mr. Gokov, for the last three or four years, you can check the official statistics, for the first time more than 30 thousand Bulgarians from abroad are going back to Bulgaria permanently, which has never happened before. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And that's a fact, you can check it out! It's never happened in your management, but on the contrary. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The other, which is Mrs. Zhekova, you are proposing measures for young families, and we want to propose measures for the literacy of Bulgarian birth rates. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "It" is for them! "]] On the contrary, all these measures you propose, you offer them: for a newborn so, for a young family so and so on. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The point is that there is a demographic crisis among the educated families in Bulgaria. You want to support the illiterate birth rate in Bulgaria and to sharpen the problem with these ghettos and with what is happening. It's the truth! And to Mr. Popov as the first replicator. Mr. Popov, you are from an area that is the poorest in Bulgaria and is most severely affected by the demographic crisis. Until recently, your party's chairman is from there. What have you done with it, including as rulers, to solve this huge demographic crisis in the Vidin region? Nothing! And you're going out there to talk to me and to keep tabs on me! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u215	Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u216	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, letting Mr. Angelov make a statement before my procedure does not make the procedure less important, and your mistake is also less important. I will not allow myself to compare you with a cataclysm, but you, as President of the National Assembly, must show real courage, you must show real responsibility, and you must show this rule, which you have tried two or three times to unfold, to read it in its part. When a Member of the National Assembly insults, insults, insults colleagues, ministers, Prime Minister, there is written what should happen to him. And you're letting this guy out there, in the last row, keep standing in this room, be one of us, coming out here and insulting an entire parliamentary group. [[GERB noise and lines]] , the leadership of a parliamentary group, a million Bulgarian citizens who voted for this parliamentary group, and you pass it by:. Mr. Chairman, we will not continue this meeting until this man is punished. This isn't the first time this has happened! [[Noise and lines.]] This man is abusing this tribune! This man is insulting this tribune! This man is lying from this tribune! This man is also a traitor to your own party! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Until a month ago, he dared not speak without Tsvetanov's permission, and now he is the first to speak against your party and Mr. Tsvetanov. Take measures it is of concern to both you and to Bulgarian parliamentaryism and to Bulgarian citizens! You can't make such words sound like that in 2019! It's unacceptable! It is in your hands now to show whether the Bulgarian Parliament wants to work for the Bulgarian citizens, to solve their problems, or to have scandals, to have oppositions, to have protests?! Please, as soon as I have finished the procedure, apply the Rules, and you decide how to punish Mr. Gurnevsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. To answer only to Mr. Svilensky. Since this is the second time you have called me to show courage, I have shown courage, Mr. Svilensky and Mr. Nedyalkov. Not here, somewhere else. I'd like to see you in this situation, forcing me to speak now. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] It's up to me to decide on the base... Don't talk to me! Wait for me! [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Yeah, I know. Wait for me. I decide at the moment whether and to what extent I should apply the Rules, and if I am doing the wrong thing, there is a procedure for you to give me a comment. In this case, I apply my own view of the fact that the MP [[a line from National Representative Georgi Svilenski]] , even when for one reason or another violates these rules, it is not necessary, because he is a Member of the National Assembly, to be punished. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The punishment of a Member of the National Assembly is not equivalent to the punishment of a wronged driver to use your terminology. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] These rules are to teach Members of the National Assembly to behave as Members of the National Assembly. [[Reply by National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Yes, I've already said that I have an opinion on this, and I'm considering it, and besides, the Rules... If you don't stop, I'll apply the rules! [[Replication by National Representative Georgi Svilenski. Loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Furthermore, the Rules do not oblige me to apply my opinion and to implement it at the moment. Note that these Rules list disciplinary measures without requiring them to be implemented immediately and immediately. That is to say, it enables the President to consider his actions in the same way that any reasonable President should do, taking into account the Members of the National Assembly who they are and who they represent in this House. Mr. Popov, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u218	My procedure is a personal explanation to Mr. Angelov. Dear Mr. Angelov, personal attacks show weakness and lack of arguments, on the one hand, and intellectual ceilingation. But let me get to the point: was it, in the ruling majority, what have we done for a year and a half? For this year and a half we have done many things, dear Mr. Angelov, for Vidin, for the poorest region. Only a few of them I can list, and for the others you can come to Vidin. Please come in and ask the citizens. Because when a minister comes from your management in Vidin, it is to shorten businesses to fire people to bring unemployment to the poorest region. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] That is why your ministers, Mr. Angelov, are coming to Vidin and the results show it in the parliamentary elections. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] The results show it in the last parliamentary elections who has taken how many votes and support. You're not in the first place, Mr. Angelov. You're nowhere! [[Noise and lines.]] In addition, the institutions exported by this government from Vidin were returned to Vidin. A number of schools, community centers and many other things were renovated. Please, come and see! [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] Such things that you almost for more than half your term could not and will not be able to do. [[Noise and lines.]] Not only for Vidin, but also for Bulgaria, because you are allies in such a disastrous government, which at the moment, due to the lack of any arguments, you show it that you are not capable of managing. There should be a state-of-the-art approach and thinking here, not personal attacks and not the kind of qualifications you're used to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u219	Finish your thought, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u220	This is not politics and it is not inherent in a democratic parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u221	Mr. Popov, finish your thought. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u222	These are in some of the other republics or in the past where Mr. Gurnevsky likes to return you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u223	Mr. Popov, please finish your thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u225	Thank you. Procedure in the manner of conduct, but the time is 2 p.m., dear Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u226	Mr. Chairman, you gave me the floor three seconds before it was 2:00, so you'll wait for me. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Chairman, you give Mr. Popov a personal explanation without having the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u227	Mr. Angelov, please! Please, Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u228	He has no right to a personal explanation. I've made the back of his line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u229	Wait. [[The speaker speaks with microphones off. Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u230	I want to finish my procedure. I picked her up three seconds before 2:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u231	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u232	There are rules of the National Assembly. Three seconds before 2:00 p.m., I put my card on, and I'm here. Mr. Philip Popov was not entitled to a personal explanation. I will just remind Mr. Popov the following, talking about Vidin, and you, Mr. Chairman, what they did in Vidin, what a community center they renovated, what a salon. Well, there was a joke about Todor Zhivkov, where in a village he said to them: "I will make you a kindergarten as well.! [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-25.u233	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Next regular plenary session on 26 September 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
