ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I will present to you the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 30 October to 1 November 2019: "1." The mandate of the Member of the National Assembly is resigned by the National Representative Lilyana Pavlova. 2. The mandate of the Member of the National Assembly is resigned by the National Representative Volen Siderov. 3. Draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in October and November 2019. The contributors are the MPs Daniela Daritkova, Valentin Kasabov, Yordan Tsonev, Christian Vigenin and Polina Tsankova. 4. Draft decision on the extension of the provisional committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. People's representatives Krasimir Tsipov, Alexander Ivanov, Manoil Manev, Valentin Kasabov, Halil Letifov, Rumen Gechev, Zhelyo Boychev and Emil Dimitrov are involved. 5. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO related to Bulgaria's defence expenditure according to the NATO classification and requirements. The people's representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs are importing. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. Importer is the Council of Ministers, point one for Thursday. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers' point one for Friday, November 1st. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: for 139, there is no objection, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. I will introduce you to the bills and draft decisions for the period from 9 to 29 October 2019: 1. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is also the lead of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. 2. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. The people's representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Health is the lead. 3. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates and the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics is the importer. 4. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO related to Bulgaria's defence expenditure according to the NATO classification and requirements. The people's representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs are importing. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. 5. Draft decision for privatization of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime qualification centre. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 6. Draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of the Bulgarian National Television for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 October 2019. Importers are the national representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Culture and Media. 7. Bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is leading, it is assigned to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie on the Functioning of the Francophone Institute of Administration and Administration in Sofia on 22 July 2019, signed on 28 August 2002. The Committee on Education and Science is leading, it is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. 9. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, first, in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that a joint preparation will be held for the period from 20 to 26 October 2019. Forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and military and ground equipment from the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia will participate in the preparation. The preparations shall be carried out in the implementation of the Land Forces Action Plan in 2019 and the arrangements reached with the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and shall not be linked to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities conducted by others, to another State or organisation of armed forces. Second, it informs the National Assembly that from 18 October 2019 to 1 July 2020, including a joint Bulgarian-American training will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility Training Polygon - New village. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2019 and is not related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, to another country or organisation of armed forces. In the joint preparation will take part formations from the armed forces of the United States of America in a staff of military personnel with the necessary equipment, state weapons and military supplies, tanks and military supplies, tanks, infantry war machines, aircraft, transport, auxiliary and repair equipment. Third, in the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by its orders has authorised: 1. The deployment of a formation by the Land Forces into the composition of military servicemen, ammunition, state weapons, individual equipment to participate in a tactical training exercise in Kilkis, the Hellenic Republic, for the period from 14 to 21 November 2019. 2. The deployment of a group of soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to the territory of the Hellenic Republic with equipment, ammunition and equipment for participation in bilateral Greek-Bulgarian preparations for the period from 30 October to 1 November 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received from 9 to 28 October 2019 and submitted to the Defence Committee. Next messages: - in the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted Decision No 615 of the Council of Ministers of 2019 authorising the participation of servicemen from the National Mobile Module on NATO Communication and Information Systems in the NATO Mission for Training, Advisoring and Assistance in Afghanistan from 1 January to 31 July 2020. The planned deadline for participation shall be in accordance with art. 71 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Decision of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was also notified. The notification was received on 17 October 2019. No 902-00-38 and granted to the Defence Committee; - on 25 October 2019 from the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies was received a report on the results of the empirical sociological study on the topic of the Public opinion on current issues in the field of health and health, held in the period 19 September 2019. In accordance with art. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly Annex to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, the Report and the Annexes thereto are published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies; - the National Assembly of the Court of Auditors has received an audit report for the audit of the report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 with an Opinion of the Court of Auditors on the report on the implementation of the Cassata's budget for 2018; an updated audit programme for the Court of Auditors for 2019 with a report on the implementation of the Cassata's budget for 2018. No 924-00-17 of 18 October 2019 By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials are provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health and are available in the Library of the National Assembly; - the National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 22 September 2019 to 21 October 2019 and Protocol No 39 from a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 October 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move to the first point of the accepted Work Programme: THE TERMINATION OF THE REPRESENTATIVE OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE SUBMITTED BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE LILYANA PAVOVA, 16.10.2019 We have an application from the National Representative Lilyana Pavlova, MP from the Third Election Region of Varna, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria resigns as the MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Lilyana Pavlova's authority as a Member of Parliament from the Third Election Region of Varna. Please vote on the proposed draft decision. Vote 160 MPs: 156, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next item in the Programme is: THE TERMINATION OF THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE WOLEN WITH LEADER, 24.10.2019 He is a non-member of a parliamentary group from the Thirty-First Multiannual Election Region of Yambolski. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, elected by the Thirty-First Election Region of Yambolski. I'll introduce you to the official draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He suspended the authority of Volen Nikolov Siderov as a MP from the Thirty-First Election Region of Yambolski. Please vote. [[Noise, lines, calls from non-member MPs.]] We're already in voting mode. Vote 166 MPs: 149, Against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with the third point: PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER 2019 Importers: People's REPRESENTATIVES DANIELA DARITOVA, VALENTIN CASABOV, JORDAN TSONEV, CHRISTIAN VIGENIN AND POLINA CANKOVA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[The National Representative Volen Siderov spoke with the chairman Emil Hristov.]] The temporary committee of inquiry was set up at the end of July and five meetings were held following its establishment, at which a number of...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u3	I apologize! [[The National Representative Volen Siderov continued his conversation with the chairman Emil Hristov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u4	Representatives of the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency "National Security" were heard, the Personal Data Protection Commission, the State Agency "E-Management," representatives of the Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Lawyers' Council and the Notary Chamber. Due to the great public interest, we also find it necessary to hold hearings with representatives of the Association of Banks, the Association of Rapid Credit Companies, and to conclude that representatives of the NRA should be heard again to present to the attention of the Members of the Temporary Committee what measures they have taken. We believe that the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry should be extended until 30 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u5	Mr. Tzipov, that was a procedural proposal, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u6	No, it wasn't a procedural proposal. It was a presentation of the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u7	I think we switched points a little bit. We're on a different agenda. [[Noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Obviously, Mr. Chairman, you so wanted to vote quickly on Mr. Volen Siderov's resignation request that you did not comply with the elementary rules of the Rules of Procedure. When you announced the point, you should have urged the debate room. You didn't. You didn't even look at the hall, as one of your predecessors in communist times, I think it was called, by the BZNC, when he asked, looking down on the documents, is there anyone who was........................... or someone who was abstention...... he didn't look at the hall. I saw you didn't look at the hall. You should have given the opportunity to debate by urging the House. That's what you always do! I tried then to make a request for a re-vote. You didn't look at the hall again. I was raising my hand. You didn't even give it a chance. Obviously, you are one of those who will look at this resignation with relief at the moment and in the future, and that Volen Siderov will not be in the hall to throw stones in the swamp, which is so green, so whiny that the stones will say only one hole in this swamp without it spilling! It seems that this swamp has taken hold of our National Assembly, and you have shown it with your conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I will introduce you to the draft decision on the work of the National Assembly: ? RESPONSIBILITY? for the work of the National Assembly in October and November 2019 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings on 31 October and 1 November 2019. 2. In the days of t. 1 meetings of the parliamentary committees shall be held. 3. For the days of t. 1 Members of the National Assembly shall recognise the transport costs incurred only on the occasion of participation in meetings of the parliamentary committees. Are there any speeches? No. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 146 MPs: 134 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It's the first round of local power elections. The party reports of no appeal wins will be made after the second, and they do not belong here, but I would like to put to your attention some extremely sharp questions that concern all of us. It is about the vices in the electoral process that distort the real vote of the Bulgarian people. We saw them in those elections, too. First, terrifying buying of votes, and you know it, under the watchful gaze of the Bulgarian institutions, the Ministry of Interior and the authorities. [[Noise and lines.]] While the Ministry of Interior arrested, detained or seized, as you would like to call it, BSP candidates' pies, because they draw with them for Dimitrovden and the Ministry of Interior considers this to be buying votes, under their keen eyes the real buyers of votes that are criminals, because this is a crime under the Penal Code, quietly distributed up to 300 leva. out loud in Bulgaria. While the Ministry of Interior and the government questioned BSP's candidate for mayor whether he was a Roma who beat physically to vote for him, the Roma neighborhoods in order voted for power. Here's how: in just one section of 420 people - 383 (91% for power); in another section of 424 - 344 (82% for power); in one region of 2600 - 2000 Roma votes for power! The next fear inspired by the people once again by the rulers. Power was used to scare people by their own admission. We heard revelations from Bulgarian citizens on the air saying: "We are afraid of everything that will set our house on fire, will set my car on fire, will stop my warm lunch from social cuisine, will kick me out of work. Power was inspiring and using people's fears. Power uses the poverty of people who admit that they have taken 20 leva because they are hungry and want to eat. Next, the entire state administration, and municipal under fear and on a list voted for power because it would lose its job if it did not. You have unleashed a terrifying compromise war against opponents, bile, hatred and incitement of the Bulgarian people against each other according to the principle of division and rule! The ruling have also corrupted these elections, but now I would like to say something about all of us who are in favour, opposition, parties, outside-parliamentary and civil associations, for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, according to preliminary data, we will also wait for the final ballots, of course, but according to the preliminary report, 400,000 invalid ballots, 15% invalid ballots. On the first day after the second round of elections, we will again raise the issue of engine voting. You removed it to fake it. [[(Comments from GERB: No more manipulations!]] Four hundred thousand votes are not accounted for at your will because there is no machine voting because it is easier to buy and distort the vote! One more blow to all of us. The voter turnout is low again. Colleagues, once again I ask you to think about this! This is a slap for all of us for all parties, for the whole political system and for the status quo. If we don't change that, people will kick us all out, they won't know the difference between government and opposition. Low turnout is an extremely important issue because it shows apathy, it shows apoliticalism, it shows distrust that people's voice can solve something. They think it's all pre-arranged. And these fake newsletters are 400,000 invalid, and this vote-buying is pouring water into this mill that it's not up to them. We all need to change our behavior so that turnout is higher. Finally, I call on any free Bulgarian who wants this to change. The abuse of power in the electoral process can only be overcome with high turnout, so, dear Bulgarians, do not stay in your homes! How you live tomorrow depends on what you do today. Go out and vote for yourself and for change. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Let's move on. You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank all the parliamentary groups for supporting the decision of the National Assembly not to hold plenary meetings for the next two days, because this protects us precisely from the use of the parliamentary tribune for election campaigning. With this attitude, we do not motivate people to have a better attitude towards the National Assembly and political parties, because the responsibility lies with all of us. Even greater is the responsibility of the leaders of political parties. I believe that here, from this tribune, we firmly stated that after the elections we will be looking for a really serious, constructive, dialogueal discussion of the Election Code in order to avoid all the negative manifestations that we have recorded during the elections. We will look for solutions to make the procedure as transparent as possible. I do not believe that the suggestion that for one reason or another someone has not won enough votes in these elections is useful before the runoff. On the one hand, a few days ago we heard from colleagues on the left that they have won a maximum number of votes and are extremely successful in these elections, provided that they have a real chance in only two district cities, and on the other hand, we are now listening to manipulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u13	Isn't that a pep talk?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u14	Doesn't every Bulgarian citizen, when there is information about violations of the laws, have to send a signal, and this is proven in the proper order?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u15	Who's gonna give that signal?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u16	I think you're brave enough and responsible enough to signal the authorities. I respond to calls from the auditorium.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u17	We do, but people don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u18	There are such signals from each of the municipalities. I myself, following the election process in the region that I represent, know of such signals. So this is how crimes are proven, and then they follow the appropriate legally established order of proof and punishment. I would like to appeal: all Bulgarian citizens should also actively participate in these elections, because only through active, mass participation, on the one hand, gets the legitimacy of the elected representative in the local authorities, on the other hand, in this way all the negative consequences of the controlled vote can be overcome. Here I am absolutely solidarity with Mrs. Ninova's call. My fellow Members, I hope that we will successfully conclude today's plenary session and that the elections will indeed be successful for all those who want the local government, not in order to be proud of it, but in order to work in the interests of the people. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Let's continue with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION TO EXPLAIN ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES AROUND THE CASE OF ELECTRONIC DATA INFORMATION FROM THE NATIONAL AGENCTION OF REVENUE. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tzipov. You presented the motives to the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, please accept my apologies. I did not understand that there was a change in the agenda and I presented the reasons for the draft decision. I will be brief to call on the MPs to support the draft decision so that the Temporary Committee of inquiry can do its job. The proposal is to extend the Commission's working period until 30 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u21	Would you also present the Project for a solution?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u22	Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Continues the period of validity of the Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency until 30 November 2019 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next item is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO RECOGNIZE THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO TAKE A AUDIT OF THE CONFORMITY OF THE INFORMATION DELEGATED BY THE MINISTERATION OF THE TEMPORARY TO NATO, CONNECTED WITH THE COSTS FOR THE PROHIBITION OF BULGARIA, IN ACCORDANCE WITH NATO'S CLASSICATION AND REQUIREMENTS. Importers: People's representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. You have the floor for the presentation of the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I request a procedure for the admission of General Atanas Zaprianov to Deputy Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u25	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Zaprianov. Please continue, dear Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u26	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO relating to Bulgaria's defence expenditure in accordance with NATO classification and requirements, No 954-02-102, submitted by Dora Hristova and a group of MPs on 10 October 2019. At a meeting held on 10 October 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by Tsvetan Tsvetkov, President of the Court of Auditors. In the reasons for the draft decision, importers point out that in recent years Bulgaria, through the Ministry of Defence, has submitted incomplete information on defence expenditure to NATO. From NATO's official press releases regarding the Member States' defence spending reports, the Republic of Bulgaria is indicated by a remark stating that defence expenditure does not include the cost of the pensions of military and civilian personnel of military departments. In this regard, it is important for the whole society, given the amount of funds that are allocated by all Bulgarian citizens, to carry out an audit of the overall information on the defence costs submitted by the Republic of Bulgaria and its correct presentation in accordance with the NATO classification and requirements. After the discussion of the Committee on Budget and Finance with 16 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Project! DECISION authorising the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO relating to Bulgaria's defence expenditure under the NATO classification and requirements The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO relating to Bulgaria's planned defence costs, in accordance with the classification and requirements of NATO for 2018 and 2019. 2. The audit period shall be until 30 November 2019. 3. The deadline for the submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 20 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-30.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted. Members of Parliament, the next regular plenary session will be on 6 November 2019 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
