ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u1	Hey, guys! We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. My fellow Members, I propose to your attention two procedural proposals: The first, there is no report for the second vote on the first item scheduled for today's meeting, namely: the second vote on the Bill amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Since this is an objective obstacle to discussing and voting the bill, I propose that the item be removed from our Programme for this week. Please, voting mode. 195 MPs voted: 186, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. During the day yesterday, 20 June 2019 applications were received from two MPs: Petar Vitanov and Elena Yoncheva, with whom they state that they are resigning. For this reason and on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: termination of the powers of Members of the National Assembly by the Members of Parliament Petar Vitanov and Elena Yoncheva, and I propose that it be included as the first item for today's plenary session. Please vote. Vote 189 MPs: 186 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I am empowered to make the following declaration. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Budget Committee, after normal disputes over the subsidy model of political parties, about the debate, about how these changes were tabled, the speed of their adoption and the effects that will cause on the political life in the country, quite surprisingly, although the report clearly stated that all other proposals will be voted on in the order, our proposals, and in that direction there were proposals from BSP........................... on amendments to the State Budget Act..................................................................................................................................................................................... I would like to say, first of all, that the text on proposals that are not covered is an inoperative text. He's a dead text. In the whole practice of the National Assembly, we will not have enough days to remove the materials from the cases in which we have violated it, including GERB, including everyone in this Chamber. However, it is even more revealing here, because in the Budget Act, there is one peculiarity of everything within the scope of the Budget Act, because the Budget Act is the only law under which lawmakers do not have the right to legislative initiative at first reading, that is, they are entitled to a legislative initiative only at second reading. In this sense, the broad interpretation even of this text, if we decide to apply it, is categorically in favour of the fact that any proposal submitted by the Council of Ministers, which is the only one entitled to a legislative initiative under the Budget Act, opens the door for proposals throughout the body of the Law by the Members of the National Assembly. These are our legal arguments on the subject. We do not agree with this approach. Moreover, in a parliamentary recognised mechanism, consultations between the parliamentary groups, at the invitation of the political party GERB and the management, we held such consultations, notified them of our intentions, heard their intentions and reached some agreement. Moreover, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in his statement in the media, after we made these proposals, recognized them. He said they were good, GERB worked on some of them for a long time and that they would be accepted both for VAT for books and for the creation of a Fund for kindergartens. We do not want to comment on the coalition policy of GERB and their coalition partners. We understand that this is at the insistence of the coalition partners of GERB. Perhaps they have their motives. We have no intention of commenting on them, we do not want to enter this matter, it is their political matter, they probably have their reasons. However, I would like to address you, my fellow Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. If we are going to measure our programmes, if we are going to have a political selfishness about which proposals are useful, even more when they are beneficial to the people, for the benefit of the Bulgarian children, for their future, for solving a number of problems that are purely statesmanic, such as how to cover Roma children at school, but not I class, because it has proved almost impossible to do so, and a number of other problems related to this matter, if we are going to measure our programmes, it is very easy for me to show you that on page 23 of our program this has been written a long time ago. It is also in the programs of other political parties. Colleagues, patent agencies around the world don't patent political ideas for a reason. Political ideas are the subject of a debate, the right of everyone, the right of every person, of every organization, of every political party. And if we're going to stop the process that we've been chosen for, because of political jealousy or because of some thin party accounts, then from the DPS parliamentary group, we're telling you we're not going to participate in this. When we have proposals that we have thought about, which are part of the Programme, which we have taken into account both fiscally and politically, and somehow, we will stand up for them and defend them. And to GERB's parliamentary group, I address this request: when you make political commitments in consultation, it is good to implement them. It's good for you! Not for us, not for the other political parties. Because this is part of the trust that is lacking in its recovery we should all strive because otherwise the rating of the Bulgarian Parliament will be not 8%, but minus 8%. I call on you next week to put these close political interests behind us and to make this law to be adopted and to be maximum for the benefit of society, to be maximum for the benefit of both the Bulgarian Parliament and the Bulgarian children, both Bulgarian science and Bulgarian culture. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. In the manner of conduct, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u4	Mr. Christov, I'm addressing you because I think what I'm about to say should have been you. I will not comment on this at any time, because this is not admissible in the Rules of Procedure, the statement on behalf of a parliamentary group of my colleague, but because it affected a procedure which was voted on in the Budget Committee yesterday, I would nevertheless like to read to my fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups the text of the Rules of Procedure. 84, para. 2. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS. Replies from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Mr. Hristov, if you want, you read it, but I want to say that it says: 83... Editorial requirements are also eligible. Last sentence: The proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote are not discussed and voted. We don't have a state budget bill. [[Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS. Replies from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] We have a bill, Mr. Hristov, for a Law amending... [[Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u5	Wait! Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u6	... State Budget Act... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u7	It's my right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u8	...and in its scope, on this bill, we have one single point "Subsidies" and everything else is different. [[Replications by National Representative Dragomir Stoinev]] by the scope of the Draft Law amending the State Budget Act adopted at the first vote. Please, Mr. Hristov, I think it's about time this wasn't the first time you took a course of the MPs. [[(noise, lines and banging on the banks of BSP for Bulgaria..................................................................................................]] on the application of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. It was a vision of the MP Yordan Tsonev, which he expressed from the stand and I had no reason to interrupt it, but you... Again, in the manner of conduct, colleagues, I think if we go in... Okay, thank you for understanding, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! With the declaration I made very consciously, I didn't go into that tone. First, Mr. Chairman, to you. In the manner of keeping with regard to the declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, there is no way to make a note to you and you should have taken Mrs. Stoyanova's word away. Secondly, I made clear the arguments that, under the Law amending the State Budget Act, all the topics are unlocked due to the fact that the MPs do not have a legislative initiative. But, thirdly, which is most important, this rule is dead and inefficient, and it is absolutely absurd Law amending the State Budget Act, tabled by the Prime Minister, outside its scope to be the fate of the children of Bulgaria. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. I will only allow myself to point out that even though you have declared the rule to be inoperative, the rule is existing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u12	It hasn't been announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u13	But it's real. Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next item on the agenda: TERMINATION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES. The resignations were submitted by the MPs Petar Vitanov and Elena Yoncheva on 20 June 2019. Application by the National Representative Petar Vitanov, with which he pleads on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to be released as MP. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Petar Boykov Vitanov as MP from the twenty-fifth election district Sofia. Statements? I can't see. Please, voting mode. Vote 185 MPs: for 179, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. An application has been made by the MP Elena Nikolova Yoncheva, MP from the Twenty-nineth Multi-Multiple Election Region of Haskovo, in which she stated: "Dear Madam Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, elected by the Twenty-Nineth Multi-Multiple Election Region. I'll read you the draft decision: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Elena Nikolova Yoncheva's authority as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-nineth Election Region of Haskovo. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. Please, voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: 172 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We have written answers for service from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov of a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Paunov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Chavdar Velinov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Anton Kutev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Tishev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on 11 issues from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Aleksandar Sabanov and Atanas Stoyanov, which we finish with. Before continuing with Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence, I will introduce you to the following: On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev at one request from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Aleksandar Paunov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two questions with written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions with written answer from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Anelia Klisarova and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on three issues from the MPs Dimitar Georgiev, Stanislav Vladimirov and Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on five questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions, Sevim Ali and Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to one question from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov; three questions from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov, Nikolay Ivanov, Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. The parliamentary control meeting will not be attended by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva due to a business trip abroad, preceded by an urgent commitment in the country. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. There are no new requests for the period from 14 to 20 June 2019. Minister Karakachanov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Nikolov Vergiev about the progress of the negotiations for the delivery of F-16 Block 70 Project for investment expenditure for the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Vergiev, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The unit of the government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the parliament-approved intention to negotiate with the United States for the delivery of eight F 16 Block 70 aircraft envisaged that people from four ministries of the Republic of Bulgaria would participate in the negotiating team. Accordingly, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, precisely given the extreme importance of our country's national security negotiations. As soon as the mandate was received by the National Assembly in the public domain, it was announced that these would be the ministers of the above ministries. As the negotiations progressed, this did not happen. On 17 June 2019 it was announced that the proposal for a contract for the eight fighters was sent by the Military Cooperation Unit to the US Embassy in Sofia of the Ministry of Defence, which was published on the pages of the Embassy, with a finding of satisfaction with the work of the Bulgarian delegation of military and financial experts. In turn, the Ministry entrusted to you has been confirmed for the submitted proposal for a contract. In view of the increased public interest and the numerous inquiries by the voters, please answer me: what is the composition of the Bulgarian delegation to conduct negotiations with the US Government, level, names, positions, qualifications and competence? If possible, share information about the relevant level and on the US side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Vergiev. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vergiev, in accordance with a decision of the National Assembly of 2019 on the launch of negotiations on the acquisition of a new type of combat plane and under the Order of Minister No. P 26 of 22 February 2019 and Order No. P 58 of 15 April 2019, a team was established for joint control and finalisation of negotiations with the Government of the United States of America in the configuration: the Minister of Defence; the Minister of Foreign Affairs; the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance. For the preparation and implementation of the negotiations at expert level in the various fields of the delivery of aircraft and related equipment, documentation and services and industrial cooperation, the defence, finance, foreign affairs and the economy have created with their orders teams to carry out activities in the field of Acquiring, Industrial Cooperation and International Cooperation, and the protection of European law. From 7 to 10 May 2019 in Washington, representatives of the appointed negotiating teams of all cited ministries and a team of the Ministry of Defence, led by Deputy Defence Minister Atanas Zaprianov, held a series of consultations and negotiations with representatives of the US country on issues related to the preparation of a draft contract and acquisition of a new type of combat plane. In the consultations and negotiations took part: Mr. Ivan Naydenov, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Zheleva, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Lilia Ivanova, Deputy Minister of Economy, Major General Tsanko Stoykov, Commander of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria, Colonel Sergey Belkinov, Head of Defence Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Vladislav Sekerov, Head of Sector at the Staff of the Air Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr. Ivan Peykov, Director of Defense Policy at the Ministry of Defence, Mrs. Diana Drageva Ivanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Expert from the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Petya Tsenova, Expert from the Ministry of Economy. The Embassy in Washington attended the meeting: Ambassador Mr. Tihomir Stoychev, Brigadier General Anatoly Krastev "Ataché of Defense," Mrs. Stefka Yovcheva "First Secretary," Senior Lieutenant Desislava Galabova "Secretary of the Defence Attaché," and Mr. Ivo Konstantinov "Associator on Commercial and Economic Affairs." The negotiations and consultations were held at two levels, both political and expert. At political level, the heads of the negotiating teams from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the level of Deputy Ministers and Permanent Secretary General held meetings at reciprocal level at the Department of Defence of the United States with the leadership of the Defence Agency of the Department of Defence, the State Department of the United States, the National Security Council, the management of the company Lokheed Martin. At expert level, the commander and commander of the US Air Force Headquarters, experts from the Ministry of Defence and other ministries held meetings and talks with representatives of the Department of the US Air Force and the Defence Cooperation Agency to specify military technical parameters and the specific clauses of the contract for the acquisition of aircraft. The negotiating teams have prepared detailed reports on the results of all meetings in the portfolio ministries and to the portfolio ministers who direct them. To conclude, I would just like to stress that I personally do not accept the suggestion made in one part of your question about the competence of negotiating teams. I've listed the people you can judge for yourself if these people are experts, if they have the level of competence, or if they don't have it. Both the management and negotiating team experts are highly appreciated experts in their departments with many years of experience in the relevant ministries in which they work and from which they are authorized to participate in the negotiating team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Vergiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I don't question people's competence at all. The issue here is another one. You are negotiating with one nation, who knows how much they hold their dignity and is very vulnerable according to who negotiates with it. I asked you that question because I'm an ex-military man, too. I just want to ask you: do you think this team has been able to meet all the parameters and have done everything possible to comply with what was voted on in Parliament? Thank you very much for your comprehensive conversation. I don't have anything to do with you. I respect you for what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Vergiev. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vergiev, at least my impression of the work of the experts who have been appointed by my order to negotiate by the Ministry of Defense is that they have done their job. You mentioned that in the negotiation process it is good to respect the dignity of a large country like the United States. That is true, but in the end we have to respect the dignity of Bulgaria for this reason that the principle of negotiation is reciprocity. That is, there is no way and it is not normal at the level at which the negotiating teams from the United States are submitted to go, for example, to the Prime Minister to talk to them. That is why they are talking about relevant levels at expert level and at political level. With regard to the ministers themselves who are monitoring the process, each of them has held the relevant meetings in this period of time from February to these days literally. I have another meeting with the Secretary of Defense in a few days, that is, the US Secretary of Defense. If, of course, the changes that have occurred in this portfolio of their administration do not prevent such a meeting. I am referring to the fact that there is an announcement that the current Minister of Defence of the United States will be replaced and that this is expected to happen on Monday. Meetings have also been held at political level between the respective ministers, meetings have also been held with the company manufacturer, so I can assure you that the teams have done their job. Another question is the final question of what will come out of all these conversations because they continue. Literally at the end of next week comes again a delegation from the United States, from their Air Force, with which the final talks on this issue will be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u21	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Karakachanov is from the MP Desislav Chukolov on the quantitative account for security of mass events. You have the floor, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karakachanov, I appeal to you as Deputy Prime Minister of Bulgaria, responsible for public order and security. My question to you concerns the gay parade held ten days ago. Since 2008, I think these perverted, sodomist minions in Bulgaria have started to take place. Over the years, we have opposed these gay parades in many ways by the party from which I am broadcast. We have guarded the monument of Vassil Levski not to pass these verses from there. We've sent a boy and a girl dressed in wedding costumes. We have sent several such couples to demonstrate that in Bulgaria the right thing is a woman and a man, and it is not right to show them parts of their bodies in public places. What's a parade anyway? They parade to show, to convince someone of something. We from the party have made a number of marches. We've done a lot of marches, thousands of thousands of marches, in which we've been on the streets of Sofia to show that, yes, we're patriots, we have to respect and behave patriotically. And your representatives have participated in these verses, you know perfectly well. When you parade yourself through the streets of Sofia, when you show that you actually want same-sex marriages, this is such unacceptable to the Bulgarian society things. Of course we're opposed. Ten days ago, we were going to defend the monument of Vasil Levski, so that this procession would not pass from there through 15 meters on the central Sofia streets there were police officers. In 15 meters, we've got teams, motorbikes, motorbikes and so on. That's what got us thinking. [[the President signals that time has run out]] how much does this cost the Bulgarian state to protect these perverts with so many police?! That's why I'm asking you this question. I hope there wasn't an army involved, but still: how many policemen? How much did this cost Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. I will only ask you: in the reply be careful when using certain expressions. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov, as is known, and you mentioned it, more than 40 social events were held in Sofia on 8 June 2019, including Sofia Pride 2019, another event under the title of "Let's keep the children from debauchery" and so on. On Sofia Pride 2019 there were about 3,000 people. In order to ensure public order before, during and after its completion, 756 police officers were involved. I'll just give you a comparison of previous years. In 2015, these employees were 848, that is, nearly 100 more people. In 2016, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The number of employees this year for the protection of this event, which I stress, is authorised by the Sofia Municipality on the basis of the Law on Rally, Ration and Public Events, this year the police who are used to guard this event and in general for the events related and accompanying this event are fewer. In order to ensure public order and traffic safety, funds of 91 thousand have been spent. 455,10 BGN, which includes the remuneration for overtime and insurance on it of employees. In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. For reference again, 590 BGN, 2016 "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible says: "The Bible 982 lv. On the same date, a peaceful public event was held. A campaign for the family took part about 400 Bulgarian citizens, while 42 police officers were involved from the Ministry of Interior. On the same day, a little earlier than the beginning of the procession of Sofia Pride, very close to its route, another event took place. The same took part between 80 and 100 people, while 199 police officers were employed by the Ministry of Interior. Regarding your question, whether and what powers of the Ministry of Defence have participated in the security of Gay Pride 2019, I think the answer is clear. The Armed Forces Defence Act does not impose similar obligations on the employees of the Ministry of Defence. No official of the Ministry of Defence, no military or military police have been involved in the security of this event, that is to say, no material funds have been spent. Actually, I can answer that on your particular question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What did we actually find out? We understand that every gay parade in Bulgaria costs an average of about 100,000. lv. of the Bulgarian State and about 1000 employees of the Ministry of Interior to take care of the security of this parade. A hundred thousand leva on a gay parade, 1,000 employees, overtime and all that! Why is that necessary? Why is that necessary? Who needs it? The American Embassy, Soros, do they need this? Let them give that money then! Rather, the municipality, Sofia Municipality, why does it allow such things to happen, knowing that it will cost money, resources and so on?! As I told you earlier, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, since 2008, we've always been doing some sort of thing accompanying these gay parades to show that there's another angle. I was going to say the opposite point of view, another point of view. We're watching police stationed and guarding this procession. This year was really 15 meters away. Now I understand how much this cost the Bulgarian state, the taxpayers, all of us! My appeal to you is that you are Deputy Prime Minister responsible for Public Order and Security in Bulgaria: tell the Minister of Home Affairs that he should in some way have been promoted to you. Tell him this resource to be used for something else, to reduce this money, to reduce overtime. If there are extraordinary hours, if there is such money, such funds that must be given, let them be in the villages, let us protect the Bulgarian citizens from Gypsy crime, not to protect those who promote in front of our children, in front of our society our twisted thoughts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chukolov, the last appeal was not necessary. As is known, in my political career, I have always opposed this gender trend, the imposition of same-sex marriages as politics, such propaganda being put into teaching aids and textbooks, and I am opposed to such events. I don't know where you were during that gay parade. I myself, as a citizen, was at the procession of the traditional Bulgarian family in defence of the family from men, women and children. As a citizen, I've expressed my position, and I've always expressed them as a politician. From another point of view, however, there are laws in Bulgaria. I mentioned to you the Law on rallies, marches and public events, according to which every event will be a procession, whether it will be a rally, whether it will be a protest of green, pemben, beetle defenders or anything else, is guarded by law enforcement, including football matches, other sports events and so on. I agree with you that for such events this money seems a lot, but in the end it is the law. The employees of the Ministry of Interior, under the permission of Sofia Municipality, are obliged to guard each public event in all its different forms, whether it is a football match, I repeat, whether it is an environmental protest, whether it is a gay parade, an anti-gay parade and so on. If you wish to receive more information, or give an opinion to the Minister of Interior, I think that as a representative of the National Assembly you can do it calmly, invite him, ask him the questions and have this conversation with him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u29	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Karakachanov is from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov about buying recycled and used buses to 22 places for the needs of the Bulgarian Army. Please ask the question, Associate Professor Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence! Since 2016, several procedures are under way for the delivery of new and recycled buses for the needs of the Bulgarian Army and the structures directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence. One of them was finalised on 19 December 2018, and a contract was concluded between the Ministry of Defence and the company "Auto Engineering Holding Group" Ltd. for the supply of recycled buses to 22 seats. The contract with the company, No. UD 03-35 from 5 December 2018, is actually in the framework of an agreement concluded with you as Minister of Defence for 40 second-hand buses. My question to you is: do you have information about problems and irregularities regarding the implementation of the above agreement and contract with the company in question, and if so, what will you do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, the Ministry of Defence has conducted an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act by Decision No 69 of 7 June 2018 with subject: On 5 December 2018, four framework contracts were concluded with the contractor "Auto Engineering Holding Group" Ltd. and four specific contracts respectively. The separate positions for the delivery of buses are up to 20 seats, 23 to 35 seats and 36 to 45 seats, and those with more than 46 seats. Framework agreements cover the supply of 40 used buses, including the delivery of 12 buses with a number of seating positions up to 22 seats under Framework Agreement No ОД 03-32 of 5 December 2018. The Framework Agreement referred to by you, which I quoted, concerns the delivery of 12 used buses with a number of seats from 55 and not 22 seats. On 19 December 2018, a specific contract was concluded to the abovementioned Framework Agreement, No ОС 03-43, for the delivery of 12 used bus brands "Ford" model "Transit" model. The contract is full of 35 days delay, your question is whether there are any irregularities. Due to the delayed implementation of the Treaty of the commercial company, the relevant penalty has been charged. The implementation process of the Treaty is entrusted to the relevant structures in the Ministry. In the event of non-compliances, the same shall be settled under the contractual clauses. You're probably going to ask me, what is the amount of this penalty? The contract for the delivery of buses to 22 places. The deadline was 18 March 2019. There are 35 days late and accordingly a penalty of 41 thousand is charged. BGN 731. and 70 C.E. Twenty-six thousand have been withheld at the moment. BGN 827. and 52 C.E. from the execution warranty. The remaining amount will be sought in court if the contractor does not pay it voluntarily. It's about the rest of that amount. 904 lv. and 18 ct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u33	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, thank you for your comprehensive response. As far as I know, the value of this order is six million, and here the interesting thing is why has it been translated in advance before these framework agreements and contracts have been implemented to them? Secondly, I have said this before, we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we have always insisted that the procedures under which public procurement is made in the Ministry of Defence are being refined, because obviously there is some problem in the very development of the technical assignment for the respective order. Another question is whether it is necessary for the Ministry to buy second-hand recycled buses or to consider a smaller number of buses, but to be new. Is it better? But this is a matter of priorities and, of course, of planning funds in the Ministry of Defence. Here I would like to draw your attention to the way in which the procedures in which the funds are planned are being prepared and how public procurement is being conducted. Obviously there must be greater attention and change the procedures under which these orders are carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u35	Thank you, Professor Tsonkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, of course, that not only in the public procurement relating to buses but also in every public procurement must have increased attention in order to cross practices that are not very appropriate, for any ministry, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, and there is similar control. As regards procedures, they were carried out on the basis of the Public Procurement Act. I also believe that in this law there are some things that need to be changed, especially related to armaments, fighting equipment and so on, because it is a specific topic. With regard to why second-hand buses were purchased. I wish I could, too, and I don't think anyone in the Department of Defense wants to be bought new ones. It is not a matter of priorities and it is not a question of planning funds. It's about the availability or lack of funds. In the absence of sufficient funds to buy new buses, you make it possible not to stop the troops from having to walk from one place to another, to work and so on. You buy buses like that according to whatever financial resources you have. Of course, in just a few months, the discussion of the state budget for next year will begin again. I would be happy to support all of the Ministry of Defence's initiatives for more funds for the Armed Forces, salaries, new buses and new equipment. So then, if Parliament votes on a larger budget, including for the vehicles that are used by the servicemen, I would be grateful and we would make a procedure for new, otherwise the funds are sufficient for that. Thank you for your attention. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the answers and participation in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, who will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov about the transplant program of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2019 - 2020. Dear Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in February 2019 the Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria entrusted you with several serious tasks related to the restructuring and improvement of the effectiveness of the transplant program and the related donor programme in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. At the beginning of June, there was a hearing in Parliament in which we presented, and you agreed with our arguments about significant shortcomings in the structure of the programme, the lack of Section "Cage transplantation" and the lack of volume and in-depth analysis of donor situations in hospitals that have a contract with the Ministry of Health. My question to you is: what is your view and after the hearing what are the specific measures that your team has taken to really be able to take before the new financial year on budget structuring is formed to identify the specific measures for stimulating both the transplant and the donor programme? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u38	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the framework of the Project of the National Programme for the Promotion of Donation and Assistance of Transplants in the Republic of Bulgaria covers the period 2019 - 2023. The strategic objective of the Programme, the directions it includes, and the operational activities to achieve the strategic goal I presented to you during the hearing on the topic on June 6th this year. However, with a view to identifying from a number of experts and from society as a whole the challenges in this area, the initial project of the Programme covered the sensitive issues for our country....................................................................................... The process of discussing and coordinating the project has allowed us to highlight further issues concerning cell transplantation as well. In this regard, we provided the draft programme to specialists in the field of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. I am convinced, Professor Mihailov, that cellular transplantation will complement and enrich the National Program. With regard to the preparation of the financial justification of the National Programme Project, I would like to stress that in June this year representatives of the Executive Agency "Medical supervision" carried out checks on donor and transplant centres in the country. Currently, the Medical Supervision Executive Agency is preparing a reference to information on the necessary financing of pre-transplantation preparation, transplants and post-transplantation surveillance. The report will contain details of the costs incurred for this activity in 2018, as well as the forecast for 2019. In the final version, Professor Mihailov, of the Program we will include a comprehensive and complete analysis "as you wished to see it, because at that time when it was discussed in plenary, we had it, but we gave it in a shorter form. Then I made the commitment, if you want it, personally, to provide it to you myself. The other thing that I made as a commitment then, rather, I informed you that last week I was at a Council of EU Health Ministers in Luxembourg. There I held meetings with all ministers, but with key ministers of countries where this activity is very developed.. Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, Hungary and other countries, we have had specific talks about how we can partner in this direction. They have accepted my proposal and today I will sign official letters so that we can determine the specific commitments in this cooperation, and it will be mainly in two guidelines: firstly, for training our teams with regard to transplants, exchange of experience for good practices in terms of donation and what is also very important... when we create our transplant centre in the country, the first five operations or as much as necessary to be carried out in the presence of their leading specialists, so that we are sure.. I am talking about lung transplantation that we will start successfully carrying out this transplant in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u40	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your answer and I will allow myself to emphasise in my regard a few points. The first of them is, of course, commendable that you have signed and now you will sign letters of contact with the transplant centers, but I want to protect you from accentuating, as you yourself have called this, the Programme on individual fragments of it that are not developed on the territory of the country, such as pulmonary transplantation, because I see that it is constantly pointing out in your thoughts, this is clearly a very painful question. The technology of transplants, the technology of donation has long been studied on the continent of Europe, has experience. The Bulgarian transplantists, the teams involved in the whole activity of marking a possible donor, the explantation and the revision of transplants, are now ready to work at a very good European level. The big problem that I have also pointed out to you during the hearing, when we were talking about these issues, in front of the honourable Parliamentary Hall, is the question of funding. And this issue is not about making an analysis and reporting on what funds have been spent last year or this year and possibly for the next year, but it is about a legislative initiative which we will soon take for a sharp change in the funding of transplants at all, as all the colleagues I have spoken with and who are dealing with the different directions of organ transplantation, and also the cell, share frankly, professionally, best-intentionedly that the main problem is economic. Not that there are no finances, but that they are not oriented in this direction. Secondly, what I have tried since then, and now I will again allow myself to share it with you in the best interest that needs to be addressed is the problem of internal changes in the Programme. I don't want to go into detail in front of the hall and the viewers who are watching us right now to tell you that there is very much progress in kidney transplants that are no longer from a compatible group donor-receptive using serious immune suppression. There are many details that need to be consulted with the relevant specialists. The most important thing I believe I have been provided with information from the Republic of Croatia. I must have 24-hour control over donor situations in relation to organ transplants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u42	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, we have no difference in the questions you have raised just now. Naturally, and as a financier, I understand that one of the main problems that has not yet been resolved and provided with regard to transplants is the financial resource and the organisational part to be implemented most effectively, because the necessary funds are not only for the transplantation itself, but for pre-transplantation surveillance and, above all, as a cost after transplant surveillance, and if necessary, treatment for these people. So the programme that we have done, in its financial part, as I said, we are currently working on it, covering all these elements, and we are quite honestly and frankly going to go out and say: if we really want to have transplants in the global sense of the word, to be at the level of Europe and the world, we need to provide all the necessary financial and material resources, including with regard to the remuneration of the people who carry out this activity, with regard to our people in places that deal with finding donors, and with regard to stimulating the families that provide the donor of their relatives throughout the period. We don't have any differences. When we are done with the financial estimates, I suppose this will happen with the 2020 budget procedure, then you will see that we have really covered the whole process as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u44	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. The next question to you is asked again by the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and is about the closure of the National Center for Drug Addiction. Professor Mihailov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! During the blitz control last week, I took the liberty of putting this question before you, and I received your answer. For the time since then, I have tried to get acquainted in detail with the activities of the National Center for Drug Addiction, as well as the attitude of professionals on the website of the Council of Ministers to the decision proposed by the team of the Ministry. My question to you is: for what reasons, regardless of the supporting letters and the Director of the Center for Drug Addiction, the European and the Director of the Centre for Therapy Communities, have you taken this measure which, as I have told you, places two completely different activities in one place? One activity is in the control of programmes against opioid agonists and drugs, training of medical staff and social mediators dealing with the control of these programmes, and a purely statistical activity which was also seen during the meeting devoted to drug addiction, in the Health Commission by representatives of the so-called Focus Center for Drug Addiction at the National Centre for Public Health, which are clearly oriented towards problems of statistics related to drug addiction, and not to the control of real and existing programmes. According to the opinion not of the dominant but of the crucial part of the specialists dealing with this serious problem not only in Bulgaria but in the whole world, the closure of this centre would represent a serious step back in the effective fight against this severe vice in society. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u46	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u47	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Professor Mihaylov! By Decree No 14 of the Council of Ministers since 1994, the State Faculty Hospital for Drug Addiction and Children's Diseases was converted into the National Center for Drug Addiction at the Ministry of Health on the basis of the hospital base in Sudol, the Department of Psychiatry and the Labor and Treatment Farm on the base in Sukhdol. By Decree No 69 of the Council of Ministers since 2001, the National Center for Drug Addiction has been transformed into the National Center of Drug Addiction (NCN) to the Minister of Health. Currently, the National Center of Drug Addiction is with 20 staff members, of which 18 are employed. It consists of two specialized Directorates: National focal point for drugs and drug addiction, studies and information with 5 state figures, and the Metodological guide and coordination of activities to reduce the demand for drugs. The administrative-business and legal services department is with 6 state figures. Summary: 14 experts at the National Center of Drug Addiction perform the functions and tasks defined by the Centre's Rules of Procedure and six post offices administer their activities. The Ministry of Health suggests that the two specialized directorates, keeping all their functions and the state numbers, should be included in the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis. One reason for drug dependence to be seen in a broader aspect of public and mental health is that in recent years there has been a significant increase in the number of patients entering psychiatric treatment with very severe complications. The other reason, which urgently calls for greater competence in drug addiction, is the Draft of the new national anti-drug strategy. We believe that with only the capacity of the two Directorates of the National Center for Drug Addiction, it is not possible to cover all activities under the Strategy. Through the infusion into the structure of the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis, experts from the National Center for Drug Addiction could use the Centre's capacity in the area of addiction and drug addiction. The building, in which the National Center of Drug Addiction is housed, expired with the Sofia Municipality, with all the possibilities for its settlement being categorically rejected by the municipality. The Ministry of Health decided to transfer the structure of the National Center for Drug Addiction to the building where the National Centre for Public Health and Analysis is housed, because in terms of the appropriate use of public resources, it is not justified to maintain a separate administrative structure for such a small number of experts. A reference has shown that there is no autonomous structure with such functions in the European Union. I said that last time, even though you said it was almost all European countries. It's not like that, Professor Mikhailov. In the United States, several NGOs have similar functions and activities. This is not an obstacle for these countries to fulfil international and local commitments in the field of combating drugs, prevention and treatment of addicts. The Centre's transformation retains all its functions and employees. Bulgaria's position in the international forums will continue to be implemented by the employees who now work at the National Center for Drug Addiction. The main task of the National Center for Public Health and Analysis, as part of the structure of the Ministry of Health, is the care for the protection of the public health of the nation. I am convinced that the combined expertise of both centres will lead to increased results in work on addiction and drug addiction both locally and internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u48	Thank you, Minister Ananiev. Professor Mihailov, you have the opportunity to make a reply if you want, supplement and clarification of this answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! And last time, during our discussion, I told you that the vision of the specialists is more about both drug addicts and their impact materially and successfully by the state. The National Centre for Public Health and Analysis has functions which are strictly designated by both the Ministry of Health, as its principal, and by the nature of its work, which relates to the actual preservation and paradigmization of requirements for the protection of public health. However, the National Center of Drug Addiction and, if you will, the international classification of diseases clearly shows that there are two sides to the fight against this vice. If we go into details, and you very well know as a European that this problem, unfortunately, is growing in the world, and the explanation that because, you see, in recent years, people have been accepted in medical institutions with very severe clinical complications of this type of dependence are not, so to speak, fracking, as the whole world's problem is growing. I had the opportunity to attend a world meeting dedicated to drug addiction under the auspices of the World Health Organization. Data on cross-border transmission of narcotics are frightening from both Afghanistan and Latin America to Europe and the United States of America. That is, if we want to achieve an actual effect, this effect is not always the effect I allow myself to share as a clinician, and as a doctor with a long history of practice, it is achieved by overcrowding. I see in you a desire not only in the area of drug addiction, but also in the area of health, to overwhelm the problems. There is a logic to this when a problem is accumulated. You know in the history of mankind there are such phases in which large alliances are merged to seek a solution. But believe me, listen to me, if you want to, make a meeting with the specialists in this area who have put their opinion on the Council of Ministers' website for the last time to check whether their thesis really does not match your desired goal, which you have set yourself to achieve. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u50	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mikhailov, I will only say two sentences. I believe that solving drug problems is part of solving the problems of protecting the public health of the population of the Republic of Bulgaria. From this point of view, I do not want to oppose the two structures, even you have said the unification of such megastructurals, and I do not see how with this staff of 18 people who have the Center for Drug Addiction is such a megastructure that can make an independent policy in the context of the common policy on the protection of human health. I accept the offer you made in this form. Let's see how the structure will work as part of the National Center for Public Health Protection and Analysis.................. if there are really any defects, we will try to fix them. But I am sure that with the inclusion in the National Centre we will upgrade, improve the work of the current National Center of Drug Addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u52	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the practical application of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of personal data. Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u53	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Since 25 May 2018, Regulation of the European Union 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data entered into force and repealing Directive 95/46/EC. The General Data Protection Regulation introduces a number of obligations for controllers and processors, some of which are entirely new and unknown in the current legal framework. In view of the obligations of controllers processing personal data, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: what action has the Ministry of Health taken for the practical implementation of the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2016/679?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u54	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, in connection with the practical implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 in the Ministry of Health, a working group has been established which carried out an internal analysis of personal data processing activities. Organisational measures have been introduced: - trainings of employees - personal protection; -.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Technical measures have also been introduced to ensure the security of network and scope levels of centralized consumer management and roles, use of digital signatures for access to systems, registers and employee databases, depending on their duties, monitoring and control of classified information and others. Personal data protection means are also intended to form an integral part of the software applications. This requirement is laid down in all new developments in the field of information and communication technologies, including projects from the National Health Information System. The Ministry of Health has a separate room in which communications information systems are located, 24/7 security, controlled access to the premises and video surveillance. He's definitely a data protection officer. The Ministry of Health processes personal data legally, in good faith and in a transparent way. Personal data shall be collected for specific purposes, kept to a minimum during processing, stored in an appropriate form and processed in such a way as to ensure an appropriate level of security. The Ministry shall keep a Register of personal data processing activities in accordance with art. 30 of the Regulation. For the protection of personal data, the Ministry of Health has concluded agreements for the processing of personal data with all its service providers, including secondary authorising officers with a budget to the Minister of Health. According to the Ministry of Health, information from all secondary officers with a budget to the Minister of Health has introduced appropriate organisational and technical measures for the protection of personal data, appointed data protection officials and conducted trainings for employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Naydenova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u57	Dear Minister, colleagues! As you know, information lies at the heart of market relations, and modern healthcare in the Republic of Bulgaria is based on market principles in medicine. Very often, information used for commercial purposes is in violation not only of commercial rules but also of moral and ethical norms in healthcare. With my question, Mr. Minister, I have taken the liberty of drawing your attention to the specific responsibilities that the Ministry of Health and its departments bear, especially by applying art. 54 of the Regulation, which states that the processing of specific categories of personal data may be necessary on grounds of public interest in the field of public health, without the consent of the data subject. Such processing should be subject to appropriate and specific measures in order to protect the rights and freedoms of natural persons. Today, Minister, you have proved to us that a privacy policy has been established in the Ministry of Health and its departments in processing personal data, for which I thank you. I would like to remind you that administrators and processors under the Regulation should also be encouraged to provide additional guarantees through contractual commitments that complement, of course, standard protection clauses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u58	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. There won't be a duplicate after the thanks, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov concerning the lack of strategic anti-tumor funds on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Ananiev, I have always sought in our discussions in the Chamber to preserve good tone and good collaboration. You will excuse me that this time my tone will be quite sharp, but it is a problem which I have been observing for many years and, unfortunately, neither with the team led by you nor with the previous teams I have seen an effect that has been achieved in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. It is about that with various legislative initiatives and order changes in recent years the volume of medicines at all, including anti-tumor medicines, which are dropping from registration and I would not like to hear the answer that this is a matter for companies who decide these things, it is a question of the so-called short-sighted drug policy. I don't want to throw all the charges on you, but this has been going on for years now, which puts the Bulgarian citizens who have fallen into the heavy vortex of a serious, but in the context of the 21st century, a treatable disease, such as an oncology. When I wrote this question to you about 20 days ago, it was about one of the strategic old, most famous, but widely used in the antitumour clinical practice preparation of Vincristin. Today, to be correct with you, I called my colleagues and they told me that the vincristine had appeared, but now the vinblastin has disappeared, that is, we are moving into a creepy domino. I remember only a few years ago, Minister, when another strategic antitumor drug, which is even more widely used, has disappeared from the market, and this has put on the cross the fate of dozens, not to say hundreds of Bulgarian patients with malignancy. I would like to ask you: not what measures, but how long will this dominoe continue to be played in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and as I told you yesterday during the meeting of the Health Commission, Bulgarian citizens should be forced to go to buy anti-tumor drugs from neighbouring Greece, from neighbouring Turkey, from neighbouring Serbia, from neighbouring my God, Macedonia? Those who can go, those who have loved ones send them, and those who have no one what happens to them? What is your attitude towards this so serious issue for Bulgarian citizens? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u60	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Minister Ananiev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihaylov, at present in our country there is a authorised medicinal product with a commercial name of "Cytocristin" 1 mg solution for injection corresponding to the international non-proprietary name "INN-vincristin." The same has no registered price and is not included in the Positive Drug List. The authorised representative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the product "MS Pharma" JSC has notified the suspension of its sale on the territory of Bulgaria, in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, to the Drug Executive Agency on 19 June 2017 for commercial reasons. The product was excluded from the Positive Drug List on 24 July 2018. Immediately after its exclusion from the Positive Drug List, in order to ensure the treatment of patients in need, the Ministry of Health has taken the necessary steps and included the medicinal product "INN-vincristine" in the list referred to in Article 2. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which allows its supply and application in medical institutions in the country to continue in accordance with Regulation No 10 of 17 November 2011 on the terms and conditions for treatment with medicinal products not authorised for use in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as on the terms and conditions for inclusion, changes, exclusion and delivery of medicinal products under the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. According to information from the Agency's Drug Executive Agency, 19 protocols from the hospital care facilities in the country for the provision of the product have been received regularly for the period from 1 April to 11 June this year. The total quantity supplied, which has been declared by the medical establishments for the period shown, is 1128 ampoules. With regard to the identified difficulties in the supply of medicinal products for the treatment of cancer in the Ministry of Health at the beginning of June, a signal came from a medical facility for lack of the market for a medicinal product INN-temozolomide. Following an urgent inspection by the regulatory authority, the representative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the particular medicinal product indicated as a reason for the lack of supplies in the country regulatory procedures following Brexit. In view of the problem of supply and the need to provide therapy to needy patients, the company has urgently imported 2,000 packages of the medicinal product already available in hospital pharmacies into the country from the Netherlands. In conclusion: despite the problems observed in many countries of the European Union, including Bulgaria, with regard to the rhythmic supply of certain medicinal products to marketing authorisation holders based in the United Kingdom caused by their relocation to countries of the European Union, the Ministry of Health will continue to make efforts to ensure the needs of Bulgarian citizens of medicinal products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, you surprised me. I didn't expect Brexit to have become the cause of irregular deliveries. And let me disagree with that, I will explain to you why very briefly and very clearly. Most of those drugs you're talking about have a long history. They have several generic manufacturers in the world, not to say that some of them have more than ten. And what is wrong, and what is seriously wrong with the drug policy of the Ministry of Health, not only your team, which unfortunately continues, but also the previous ones, is that with extreme ease, which very much worries me, transfers all these problems through the Mythical Regulation No 10 and I told you that yesterday, if you remember, on the unfortunate hospitals that do not have any legal or financial opportunity to monitor the global market, to fight with the Bulgarian distributors. I have witnessed, Mr. Minister, when a price changes 100 times, and that is exactly the way I have seen it in Regulation No 10. One or two distributors enter a cartel, announce a price that is much higher........................................I remember this case that appeared on the territory of the country, so many times we have addressed your predecessors. I hope you will finally take measures as Minister of Health. It's not a question, it's not a question of letting go of art. 266, Ordinance No 10 lists which we each year give to the Ministry of Health. It is a serious institution, as you are, which is the National Health Insurance Fund, to be given the opportunity to protect its citizens, not to leave this in the hands of the medical institutions. This happened last year with this VID, which came here for the transfer and giving an opportunity without public procurement, which is even more, not to say the right word, I will use the words So I'm asking you very much not to look for the reason in Brexit. I repeat: these preparations are quite old historical, they have very generic manufacturers, and to enable a large organization and institution such as the Ministry of Health or NHIF to deal with this issue and to decide it in the interests of the Bulgarian nation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u64	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. A hole? There won't be. We continue with a declaration on behalf of a group. Mrs. Ninova, come in. You have the floor, then we will continue with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u65	Dear Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of parliament and especially two colleagues from GERB! What happened in recent weeks in Bulgarian political life? Four things we would put together in a single word. Dear Bulgarian citizens, you were used in the political game of Boyko Borisov. Your fair request to reduce party subsidies was used and replaced with an attempt to legitimize the purchase of politicians and entire oligarch parties through private financing of parties. Not that this isn't happening now, but now it's a crime and it's in the Penal Code. The proposals tabled would have whitened this crime and made it a law. This is another attempt by the government to make corruption legal. The second replacement was replaced by what was hidden. The Coalition GERB and the United Patriarchs do not manage the country, manage the DPS and GERB. The third replacement of the real questions about your life have been replaced by procedures. The procedure defeated poverty and inequalities. BSP's proposals for tax relief for young working families, for recalculating all pensions and reducing the VAT on food and medicines were not allowed even to discuss with procedural grasps, but much more important is why they were not because they are not important for GERB. Poverty and inequalities, demographic disaster are not a problem for them. And while they were throwing dust in your eyes that they would reduce the subsidy of a lev by the way, which they never had a sincere intention, CEZ was sold to the second Ginka from 1 July will increase the prices of electricity and water. And in the case of a huge surplus in the budget, the Ministry of Finance takes a new debt of 400 million, which we will all pay in the next 20 years. The fourth replacement was replaced once again by the parliamentary republic and the rule of law with the sole authoritarian power of one person. Here's how: without an agreement even with its coalition partners, with whom he manages "United Patriarchs" he manages in quotes, without discussion in the parliamentary group of GERB, came to parliament and ordered: one lev subsidy! Order it loudly and with fanfare, and today he withdrew it quietly and with justification there was no report from the Commission. In the same way, we learned from the media from Brussels that the state will take a new loan of 400 million without explaining for what, for what period, under what conditions, without discussing with the public or in the National Assembly where it belongs. It's a replacement. The good thing is that we "BSP for Bulgaria" as the biggest opposition, you.. the civil structures, the Ombudsman of the Republic, the President reacted to this policy of replacement. As long as there is such resistance, there is hope that we will stop the uncontrolled power that plays with people's lives only to survive it itself. Let all who care about the rule of law and justice, about normal life and human policy unite regardless of what positions we hold in parties or in the state, regardless of what positions we have in society! Let's unite and move on! I believe we can make it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u66	It was a declaration on behalf of a group. We're continuing with parliamentary control. There is a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev concerning the policies of the Ministry of Health for blood and blood components. Here you go, Mr. Kutev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, and I, as well as many Bulgarian citizens, or I would say most Bulgarian citizens, have recently so happened that I often find myself in hospitals with my loved ones and see the same thing that I think anyone who has ever experienced in the last 20 years in hospital has seen. And this is the situation where you or someone close to you need to be bled out, and the only thing you get in return is that two or three people, five people, as much as blood, should give blood. And from now on, we start walking through the misery, which unfortunately, on the one hand, is a deadlock that feels every person, on the other hand, is offensive because, unfortunately, we all know how this happens. However, if you are in Sofia, Varna, Plovdiv, but if you are in the deeper province, it becomes harder, you go to the relevant center and there are some citizens who need to be paid some money to give blood. That, first of all, is illegal, but it's commonplace. And, secondly, in the end, it is extremely offensive to the people who do. Obviously, I managed, preparing for this issue, to formulate a few problems, but for example, I couldn't solve them anywhere. I talked to some local hospital directors, for example, who all told me there was a shortage of blood. Realistically, they're always in a constant situation of blood shortages, but I couldn't read anywhere about the lack of it. In fact, I see some target indicators that the Ministry is setting itself, which, however, are being put on a purely administrative basis. They were not placed on the basis of the calculation of the needs, and I could not find at least anywhere in the documentation how much blood was needed for Bulgaria and how much was the shortage in order to somehow be able to calculate the way in which it could be obtained. Obviously, I see he's having problems with that. So one of my questions is in the policies entirely of blood donation, my other question will actually be what is the shortage, what is the volume we are looking for, 20%, 50%, 6%, so that we can see from there what are the ways of funding, what are the problems and why so many years the state can't bypass those Roma who are standing in front of the centers and who are actually blackmailing people in practice? And by the way, I'm not against them either, because it's a good thing they're there, because at least they're a way out. It's insulting, you pay for it, and it's in situations where it's extremely difficult in general, but in spite of everything, if it wasn't for them and there wouldn't be a way out. So this is about a problem which, unfortunately, concerns all Bulgarian citizens. He's extremely unpleasant because we've all faced him in difficult situations. And on this occasion, my question to you is: what are the policies of the Ministry of Health to provide adequate amounts of blood and blood ingredients to meet the needs of the health system in Bulgaria and what are the needs, as I have already said?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Minister Ananiev, please come in for an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, the policy in the field of transfusion haematology is part of the health policy, led and financed by the Ministry of Health. The primary objective of all units in transfusion medicine is to ensure safe, secure, cheap and accessible supply to patients with blood products, as well as the preservation of the health and well-being of donors and medical personnel associated with laboratory diagnostics and the conduct of haemotransfusions. In 2018, 169 thousand were made. 633 blood donation, which is an increase of approximately 3.4% compared to 2017. The increase in the number of blood donation grants by approximately 4.4% and the donation of blood components by aferrese by approximately 25.6%, the family blood donation has a leading place to provide blood and blood products for scheduled operations. This is due to improved diagnostics following the introduction of automated systems in immunohematological laboratories and complex methods for the examination of patients. The increase in the number of donated blood tests for transmeatal infections was respectively the increase in blood donation. Reduced and destroyed or transmitted for scientific and medical purposes are units, whole blood or blood components, the main reason for this is improved diagnosis and withdrawal of donors with bans still at the level of registration with the result of the use of the national donor register as part of the National Information System of transfusion haematology, which allows access to donor information in real time. It should be noted that the bodies of the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Red Cross, the media, NGOs and others are also involved in the organization of the blood donation activity in addition to the Ministry of Health and Medical Institutions. It is obvious that the commitment is not only of the health system, but of society as a whole. Active educational and promotional campaigns are held among students aged 17 and students to promote voluntary and free blood donation as a humane and voluntary act. As a result, the donated blood of a mobile team in 2018 increased by 5.8% compared to the previous year. For Sofia, shares increased by 33.5% and donations by 13.6%. The participation of NGOs and the media is becoming increasingly active. In order to provide blood and blood products with guaranteed quality and safety, the main objective of the Ministry of Health's diagnostic and treatment policy is to continue to invest in the development of the blood transfusion system to improve the quality and security of blood products. In this regard, an amendment was made in 2018 to the Medical Standard "Transfusion Schools', which transposed the European Commission's Directive on the implementation of the guidelines for good practice in national law. The next step is the introduction of a new modern technology to diagnose donated blood for transmissible infections, testing using a technique to implement nucleic acids, so-called NATs to ensure an even higher level of quality and safety of blood and blood components. The Ministry of Health jointly with the Ministry of Education and Science developed a National Scientific Programme which started the introduction of the NAT molecular method into the country's transfusion system within a two-year period. In implementation of the program will be purchased apparatus of the highest class to perform the diagnosis of donated blood with the necessary supplies and software provision. The programme includes training of specialists and research activities, the results of which will allow the development of a scientific methodology for the introduction of NAT technology in all transfusion haematological centres. The introduction of NAT testing will increase the security of blood products and minimise the likelihood of infection of patients or blood products produced from donor blood, and the so-called window period will be substantially shortened. Thus, the current serological methods of screening of transmissible infections will be upgraded in order to increase the security of donated blood diagnostics. Despite the difficulties in the recruitment of blood donors against the background of reduction and ageing of the population, the transfusion haematological centers manage to provide the necessary amounts for emergencies, planned operations and transplants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u70	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev, you are entitled to two supplementary questions, because you ask a question. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u71	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, first of all, as a matter of fact, we should have started with this, obviously Bulgaria is not in the worst situation with regard to haematology, blood donation. We are somewhere in the middle of Europe. There are countries like Greece and Germany that are almost twice ahead of us, but there are others that are very behind us, so this is not dramatic in terms of where we are. The problem is that this is a daily difficulty for people, in fact for those who encounter the system. What you said, including the NAT system that you are actively working for, I have seen in the documents that this is true, I hope that this system will really end in 2 years. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. However, for example, in the directive you mentioned, there is something important that I would like to address as one of the issues. It is that the directive makes voluntary as an absolutely mandatory principle, but free will is not a mandatory principle, it is recommended. That is, free blood donation is something that is subject to certain arrangements, and I believe that on the issue of motivating citizens to donate blood, this is important. That's one of the options we might have. For me the question, first of all, is: does he even think about it? Here, of course, it is about the most vulgar degree, but because at least the centers need to be imbued in some way and paid for the blood donation, i.e. taking blood, I think it is important for them to have mechanisms to find blood donors accordingly. But I have two other things that are very important to me. First of all, I didn't hear anything about the uncontrolled consequences. I didn't hear anything about how we would avoid the need for each of us to go praying to some people to give blood and actually turn it into a black market. This is a key issue. I ask you this question not because of anything else, but because of this, because this is what people in the country face every day. The next is not enough for me. I have seen in the documents, including in the regulations of the Ministry, how the response to crises has been regulated. But I don't have any sense of what I've read that we're ready, God forbid, to have a situation where we need a massive need for blood transfusions, banks, and how we react, the system is currently gasping in this environment. Yes, it provides for emergencies, but does not provide at all in all cases where necessary. What happens if we have a severe and very serious crisis? There are some import mechanisms outside through the Red Cross, but how much are they working and what will be the imports that will come? At all, I didn't see any serious preparation for what was going on in the crisis. This is also a very important issue that we need to think about, and, God forbid we have to, we'll be late. And I say to you again, what is the shortage, and to what extent could this be avoided, i.e. what is the volume of the problem? And just two more things.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u72	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u73	Just a quickie. What's the geography? Okay, well, district hospitals have wards, but how are these wards financed? They're not funded right now. Currently, the departments of haematology in district hospitals, together with the pathoanatoms, are entirely at the expense of district hospitals. Unfortunately, they have no money to support them, and they have no desire to support them, because it is simply an additional cost that nothing brings them. And what do we do separately when you have the district hospitals that do, and the municipal hospitals that don't have anything around? They don't even have wards. That means to get blood from people from small towns, you have to get them on a bus and take them to the big city to give blood. How's this gonna work?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u74	The weather, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u75	I'm done, Madam President. Obviously, you also need mobile teams, which means you need equipment, and you need another way of paying. These are my questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u76	Dear Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u77	Mr. Kutev, I agree with many of the things you said. There's really a lot to improve and improve in this direction, but I still want to say what I ended up with. After all, blood and blood products are provided for emergency, scheduled surgery, as well as transplants. Undoubtedly, in the process of supplying blood and blood products, there are many more things that need to be done. One of the things I've been talking about, which will speed up the process of blood assessment, is whether there are certain diseases. I want to tell you that we have already appointed a contractor for this project. Currently, there is a 14-day period of appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court, after which the project will simply start working. This project is very important. It will partially and very importantly help this whole process, which will quickly react to which blood meets the requirements and be used immediately in the necessary cases. Yeah, there's really problems with remote places. I agree that there should be mobile teams. There are now, but mostly from the Red Cross. It is imperative to create the necessary organization in our district hospitals, which have such mobile teams and can provide such blood. All those things that you shared, I think they are important, we will keep them in mind and I will share them with my experts at the Ministry to really see how the programme can be enriched in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u78	Thank you, dear Minister. You are welcome to express your attitude to Minister Ananiev's response, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u79	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, a few things are important to me as the finale of this conversation for now. The first is that once again I congratulate you on introducing one of the technologies. As far as I'm concerned, they're not cheap, I don't get it exactly, something in the order of 25 million, according to the whole procedure, if I understand correctly, I may be wrong here, but they're expensive enough. This is responsible, however, because it guarantees the quality and final and final blood test, as far as I understand it, is useful. However, I would like to return you to a few things that I think are extremely important from the point of view of users of the health service and of the people, of the patients, in fact. Once again I say that volunteering is a mandatory principle, but gratuity is not. That is, we must think very seriously about what are the mechanisms in which the state can make it possible to repay at least the centers so that they can work with the donors already. And they will find their mechanisms, even if they are not fully regulated. But this is the first thing that I think is absolutely key to the conversation we have, and it can happen quickly. The second, which is very important, are mobile teams. As far as I know, there's at least one specialized car that's ready, and I figured out it's somewhere along Haskovo. The problem, however, is that when they do not receive separate money, they weigh such a team of such a car, for example, such a technique and whoever you give it to at the hospital, he does not want to use it for the simple reason that it is burdening its costs and does not actually bring it any income. That is, if the financial problem is not solved, he, notice, in this system we have two different ways of financing.. one is on the six centers, including with the Military Medical Academy, which are directly funded by the Ministry of Health, and the others that have already been financed by hospitals. In my opinion, the return is to direct funding. How's that gonna work? Through a path, as I understand it, cannot happen, but it can be done, for example, as is done with emergency care, as is done with other things there. That is, the first thing you need to do is think about how we solve the problem of financing these haematological centres, so that they can, accordingly, be interested in developing their activities. They want it otherwise, but they don't have the money right now to do it, and it's practically hindering their activities. So these are two key things: funding and corresponding retribution, so that the corresponding motivation can be created. These are things that I think are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Declaration on behalf of a group, most likely. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! A few minutes ago, we witnessed that no matter how much loss the Bulgarian Socialist Party suffers, its leader will obviously not change his way of acting and his way of thinking. Once again, we were accused of various sins, most of them speculative. Therefore, on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, I am obliged to disprove these words, and to stress that we will not change our behaviour and our intention to rule the country normally and firmly. First of all, we were accused of changing the debate on the subsidy of the parties. I would remind you that two weeks ago, we offered the subsidy to become one lev, we maintained this proposal and we were ready to vote for it. All the time BSP colleagues have convinced us how to go about dialogue, how things should be discussed, how we should explain to citizens what the risks of this action are. Today, when we show a tendency to dialogue, we listen to different opinions, listen to different concerns, tell us that we have made this debate with full awareness that the subsidy will not fall and almost today we see that the BSP are advocates for reducing the subsidy. No, it's the BSP who don't have a single proposal on this subject. They do not say how much BGN should be voted on by the political parties. Almost all the other political forces in this Parliament have a position on this, and the BSP is the one that does not. The position of BSP is: We have witnessed other accusations: government debt, we have enslaved the people again. I remember how from this tribune and Mrs. Ninova and all the economic and financial experts of BSP claimed that we took a debt of 16 billion in 2015. Where are these 16 billion, have they spent? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, no, they're gone, there's no such debt, colleagues. There's no such duty! Did you know that Bulgarian external debt as a percentage of gross domestic product has decreased over the past four years and there are some levels of government debt that are the lowest in the European Union? Did we get 16 billion in debt? We didn't. However, here are torn shirts in the same way that are currently tearing shirts for a sovereign debt, which all experts say is perfect because interest is currently at an extremely low level and that this is an extremely good deal. Here we are talking about enslavement and how in this enslavement the only ones who will counteract are the President of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the Ombudsman of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and the Bulgarian Socialist Party. [[Applause from GERB.]] They are the ones who will free us from this slavery, which, again, I say, leads to the lowest public debt in the European Union which is falling. It is not only increasing, it is not only the lowest, but it is also decreasing. Therefore, we can afford such transactions because we have a stable economy and investors trust to give debt at low interest rates to our economy. VAT. Again, we have started to stimulate poverty and to fight for equality through tax policy. In any political party programme, including, I am sure, and in your own, business support measures are defined as easing the tax burden, so let's be honest. When you offer tax cuts, talk that you want to help the business, that you want to help the business of breadmaking, the business with publishing activity. This will be more correct. If you want to fight inequality and conduct social policy, make proposals for social policy and help those who need help, and do not reduce the burden for everyone. Because in this way, when you reduce VAT, you also stimulate those who take high incomes. This debate is important because it turns out that in the 30th year since we are in a market economy, you believe that only you that the reduction of VAT, in general tax, supports those in need. There is no such thing anywhere in the world in any market economy! In politics taxes and their reduction serve as an incentive for business and if you are business oriented and want the business to be supported, go out and say it. Finally, I will say what I started with: start a change. It is not bad for a party even if it is 130 years old, if it wants to be sustainable, to change. It is your business who will be your leader, what congress you will do and how long your captivity will be. Our job is to protect the state from you because you are currently unable to conduct an adequate policy. Your party, unfortunately I say it, has problems and she has to solve them before making an application to promote her policy. And one more thing, in every democracy, the ruling majority is pursuing policies, and the opposition is a corrective. You are talking about how you have proposed that we implement your program. I have told you this before: we will not implement your program because we have won the elections, we have opposed your program, not because we support it and do not be angry with us. I wish you success in the change and I am sure that someday you will have a bright future too! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Asked by the National Representative Anton Kutev to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, about the readiness to respond to the health system in donor situations. You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u83	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! On the subject of donation, unlike the previous one, we don't sleep as well as we would like. In the sense that the number of donors per capita is one of the last places in Europe. As you know, this year we are having this conversation relatively regularly in different formats about the fate of donation and transplants in Bulgaria, including on the occasion of a previous question by colleague Mihailov, including on the occasion of our participation in the Eurotransplant, and so on. What we are aware of so far is that campaigns should be conducted to motivate donation, which I think we are all trying to do. By the way, I would like to mention that today in the town of Plovdiv there is another memory fountain of the donor. She's third in a row. At least three more with a lot of funding. So in different cities this campaign will continue. Of course, you should be doing, and I hope that you are preparing much bigger campaigns, because the Ministry's capabilities are greater. But what's the problem? Okay, we're going to motivate people to become donors in various mechanisms, including us, and you're preparing some legislative changes that, in one way or another, move forward this cart so far, it's all clear to me. The question is, however, what part of donor situations can actually be realised in the possibilities of our health system? Because these days I read materials that for the first time in transplant options, in donor situations are already used drones. I certainly know that for years, for decades, helicopters have been used, that is, there is a particular technique that needs to be provided so that we can know that in rare cases when we have real donor situations, they can be implemented at 100 percent. I am not a doctor and I do not understand medicine, but as far as I know, an exsanguination of a heart can only be done in St. Ekaterina. In Sofia, correct me if I am wrong, while example liver and kidneys, as far as I know, can be done almost anywhere; for a lung, for example, for a pancreas, we need specialists outside Bulgaria to do them. That is, in reality, even in cases where we have a donor situation, it turns out that we cannot, technically, fit to respond to this situation and actually do everything we can to ensure more people's lives. So my question to you is: how many specialized teams are there to respond to a donor situation; where are they; what part of the donor situations are realized?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, a total of 34 hospitals across the country are licensed as donor centers by the Executive Agency. Anesthesiologists are designated as body donation coordinators by the orders of the directors of the healthcare establishments concerned. Out of the 34 hospitals mentioned, seven hospitals have been authorised by the Executive Agency for organ transplantation, so-called transplant centres. Their directors have established schedules for 24-hour placement of transplant teams as required by Ordinance No 6 of 2007 on the validation of the medical standard in the field of organ, tissue and cell transplantation. Specialized donor response teams are located in 34 donor bases and in the so-called transplant centers of 7 in number. The Donor facilities are located in most of the district's multi-profile hospitals, which are 18, in university hospitals, and in five of some private hospitals, the division is conditional. The transplant centers are located in the cities of Sofia and Varna. We have prepared lists of donor bases and transplant centers authorised for individual organ transplants. If you wish, I can then provide you with this reference. Of the announced donor situations, in the first place, organs for transplantation of Bulgarian patients are offered. In case there is no suitable recipient, the Medical Supervision Executive Agency has the opportunity to offer them to other European organisations for the exchange of organs. In 2018, in any case of brain death, in which no medical contraindications or withdrawal from loved ones were observed, explantations with subsequent organ transplants were performed. In the same year, in 16 situations of proven brain death 43 organs were exsanguiated and the following transplants were made: 24 kidney, 14 liver, 4 heart. One kidney has not been transplanted due to established malformation. Between August and December 2018, two livers, one lung and two kidneys were provided to the Eurotransplant. In 2019 there have been 5 cases of proven brain death, completed with an explantation and subsequent transplantation of six kidneys, four livers, one heart, all performed in the country. No organ exchange with a Eurotransplant has been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Kutev, you have the floor to ask supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u87	Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, unfortunately, the data that you quoted is roughly what I imagined. I mean, let me remind the citizens and colleagues who are looking at us right now that our non-participation in the Eurotransplant is due to the fact that we actually have 10 times less donors in the country than we need to cover the regulations. Of course, a Eurotransplant is a non-governmental organisation and we are not obliged to participate there, but generally purely territorial, this is a place where we should do it, and other organisations have similar requirements. In any case, we start from the starting point that we need 10 times to upload donor situations and from now on you and I are already talking about what the reserves are and how this can happen. On the one hand, it must be done through persuading people to agree and participate in this way with all the dramatism on this subject, but the other to which we should pay attention, however, is to what extent the state has done its job in terms of this, having a donor situation, what you are doing with it. As you say, last year out of 16 cases of explanted, we only have four hearts. Yes, the liver and kidneys are more because they can be done in much more places. I don't know what the analysis is, why of 16 people are only four hearts and, from what I understand, I think only one said that it was sent to the Eurotransplant, so five are realized, that is, there are 11 who are not. Most likely the reason here was simply that they didn't reach the appropriate place where they could be explanted. I don't know, you'll tell what it is. For me there is a huge opportunity here and huge territories to expand all of this, given that we actually in the vast majority of cases, in the sense for each of these bodies, fill in the needs in Bulgaria within 10, 15 to 20%, that is, the needs of hearts, of lungs and so on. As we know, on the waiting list there are 16 constantly waiting for lung transplants, now you say there are 17, and at the same time we do 2 years at a time, and if they happen, because several years did not happen. With these huge differences, each of these organs is extremely important. Therefore, I pay attention to this... do we have the necessary technique, what technique do we need? I see that in the world this is done again. I come back, do it with helicopters, do it with drones, do it safely with ambulances. I guess most of the brain-dead situation happens in hospitals where there's some equipment, but they happen on the roads. In other words, what are the needs of the system, including financial needs? My goal in this case is to help the process and to give you the motivation to do so in order to at the same time account for what we need as an organization, what money we need, and given that so far, colleagues have reported 3 billion surpluses, not surpluses, but collected funds... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I apologize, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. Three billion raised funds just for the half-year, so we shouldn't have money for transplants. We just need to make the appropriate organization, we need to know what money we need. That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u89	Dear Mr. Kutev, you are absolutely right that savings from exactly the necessary means of transplantation should not be made. It is no coincidence that one of the previous questions I said that we are making a really very detailed financial plan of the National transplant program and there will cover all the processes, including the processes that are related to stimulating donation. In the financial part of the National Programme, you will see that we have made a modern European program with coverage of all problems related to the pre-transplantation period, transplantation and post-transplantation period, as well as all problems related to donation. You are absolutely right about something else that we need to provide air health transport in case of donor situations. You know that we are currently using this transport to Air Force 28. I am convinced that this is not enough, while at the same time at this Council of Ministers, which I said just last week that I was in Luxembourg, there was a question of investment in health for the next planning period, each country reporting its needs and in what directions there is a need for investment. One of our main priorities was transplants as funding with European funds, of course, together with a national resource that will be separated, as well as the need to provide at least three or five sanitary helicopters. The representatives of the European Council quite objectively accepted our first proposal. We will, of course, motivate ourselves and when we present the necessary projects to protect the financial framework for next year, I hope this project will be approved, so we are also working in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u90	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor of respect, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u91	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I am pleased, of course, and I think it is really important to think about these investments. It's a good thing you mean that. I do not know if we think about it within the next planning period of the European Union, how long and how all this will happen, but, anyway, you are an administrator and even more so, that you know enough about finances and have to find the ways. I am absolutely convinced that the efforts in this direction are necessary. You can see that from the beginning of the year, we have undertaken a series of questions and other events to motivate this activity. I fully understand that the Minister of Health is pressured by extremely many needs, and when he launches a campaign in defence of whether he will be on donation, whether he will be on blood transfusions and so on, I do so with the idea that this is extremely important for citizens and that, ultimately, this is the meaning of the opposition when pressing the executive power to be able to solve specific problems. At the same time, I realize that I will not be the one to determine what is most important. You should know what the priorities are in the system and what is called, they, the money, when you take them down into one place, take them out of another. I mean, it's all a mechanism that has its complex interactions that are entirely in your power right now. After all, there are two things I want as a conclusion. One was how we do so that we have the necessary technique, but again, as with the previous question, we may have the necessary technique, but if people are not properly motivated, including financially, that will not happen. As I understand it, there are serious problems with coordinators in terms of how coordinators are motivated. They could change the system of motivation. I hope, I suppose, that you are also working on this, but we must, in particular, in terms of donation and transplants, urgently make changes, because there, as I told you, we are obviously in the last places in Europe, and these are human lives. These changes cost real human destinies literally every month, so I'm counting on you to continue working in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. We continue with the next question to Minister Ananiev. He is from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on the updating of Regulation No 6 on Healthy Eating of Children and the publication of updated Journals of Recipes and Guidelines for Healthy Eating of Children from three to seven years of age. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u93	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By letter of the Ministry of Health, No 74-01-69 of 5 September 2018, an updated version of the Journal of Nutritional Recipes for Children from three to seven years of age in childcare establishments was established. This collection was developed by a team of specialists from the National Center for Public Health and Analysis. Unfortunately, for more than nine months it has not been published, as first it should be updated Regulation No 6 on a healthy diet for children from three to seven years of age. I merely recall that this Ordinance has not been updated since 2011 and it no longer complies with the standards laid down in Regulation No 1 on the physiological standards of nutrition of the population. According to Ordinance No 1, the average daily needs for carbohydrates and food energy value are significantly reduced for all age groups after three years of age. Given that one of the key challenges for children's health, according to the National Health Strategy, by 2020, is overweight and the risk of obesity, I believe that healthy eating and the formation of eating habits in children's institutions should be an active and permanent state policy. I am making a point here that only four days after we asked the question, the draft new regulation was published in the Public Consultation Portal. I know there are a lot of gaps in this regulation, and I believe that as the consultations run, they will be cleared, but my question to you is: when will the update process of the Regulation be completed and when will the new updated collection, better known as the Recipeture, be published? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, providing healthy nutrition to organized collective children in Bulgaria is a priority of the National Health Policy. In 2018, following a review of existing scientific evidence, documents of the European Food Safety Authority, opinions of leading international organizations and others were updated the physiological standards for feeding the population in Bulgaria. The updated physiological standards define the energy and nutrients needs of the individual population population to be provided by adequate nutrition for the relevant age, gender and physical activity. The new Regulation on physiological nutrition standards (order No 1 of 2018 on physiological rules for feeding the population) lays down the framework on which the existing rules on healthy nutrition of the individual age groups, including the Regulation No 6 of 2011 on healthy nutrition of children from three to seven years of age in children's establishments, must be amended. In order to ensure a healthy, adequate and full feeding of children in children's institutions by introducing requirements and reference values for consumption of nutrients and energy, a Draft Regulation for amending and supplementing Regulation No 6 of 2011 will be developed. Implementing in the practice of the updated product set will help create healthy eating habits for children, which will be the basis for building a healthy model of eating during childhood. Providing a varied and balanced healthy diet and adequate nutrition patterns and habits in children will create conditions for long-term good health and reducing the risk of chronic non-infected diseases at later stages of their lives. The draft Regulation amending and supplementing Regulation No 6 of 2011 was published for public consultations on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Public Consultation Portal on 10 June 2019 for a period of 30 days. In order to facilitate the introduction into the practice of the Healthy Nutrition Ordinance in 2004 was published Journals of recipes with a feeding manual for children from three to seven years of age. In 2018, an updated version of the Reports was developed, which will be printed and made available to the children's institutions concerned for use after the publication in the Official Journal of the Ordinance amending and supplementing Regulation No 6 of 2011. Thus, the Reports will be in full compliance with the international recommendations, national experience and regulations for the organized feeding of children at that age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u96	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you very much for your reply. I sincerely hope that the Ordinance and the Reports will be updated within the time limit because, as I said earlier, the comments of specialists who are involved and who work in the field of healthy eating of children are evident that there are some things and some topics that have been missed in the new regulation. It is true that they will be taken into account, such as: more fruits and vegetables, more salads, reducing the amount of pasta, reducing the amount of meat and meat quality. One more thing, let the control of how Regulation 6 is implemented be tightened, because the old regulation is not bad, but is it really implemented?! I myself have bothered to check the public procurements for feeding children in kindergartens in a municipality. Some of the products that are ordered there do not meet the requirements laid down in the Ordinance at the time. What you are proposing is tightening the rules and quality of food, so I call for a better process of control over the quality of food products that we give to our children. I hope that the Journal of Recipes or better known as Recipeture will be ready for the start of the new school year and that Bulgarian children by the age of seven will have the opportunity to enjoy and eat quality and healthy food and quality and healthy products. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. We continue with the next question to Minister Ananiev. He is one of the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev, Filip Popov and Valentina Naydenova on the management of the Multi-profile Hospital for Active Treatment.St. Petka, town of Vidin...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You have the floor, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment The town of Vidin is one of the companies with more than 50% state participation. At the moment, it is in a difficult financial state and the remuneration of health care professionals is slightly above the minimum wage. I'd say these are symbolic rewards, at all inadequate for the work they're doing. It's perfectly normal and reasonable for them to protest. I think these protests have been for four months, although some commitments have been made by you and the Prime Minister. When meeting with the director of the hospital, they are told that the funds to increase their remuneration and improve the working conditions are not available. It is quite normal and reasonable for these protests to go into effective action. In the last few days, we even have reports that entire wards want to leave. This situation very much concerns us and we have concerns about the normal functioning of the Vidin hospital. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: what measures has been taken and will the Ministry of Health take for the effective, efficient and economical management of the company as a principal? What are the actual size and cost structure of the staff currently? What is the ratio between the basic salaries for a doctor, a health care specialist and a health care professional in the company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, Mr. Popov and Mr. Topchiev! The Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "St. Petka" JSC is a public limited company within the meaning of the Commercial Law in which the State owns 83.25% of the capital and the rest of the capital is distributed among the municipalities of the region, managed by the Board of Directors, which is elected by the General Assembly of Shareholders. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the Minister of Health exercises the rights of the State as shareholder in the company, its rights and obligations are accordingly in view of that quality. Under the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act, the management responsibility lies with the Board of Directors. However, I would like to inform you of the actions taken by the Ministry of Health to develop draft regulations aimed at achieving better financial management and stabilisation of the financial situation of medical institutions. The Ministry of Health has developed a Draft Methodology for the formation of staff costs and salaries of medical and non-medical staff in state and municipal hospital care facilities, which was discussed by the Branch Council for Tripartite Cooperation in Health. Then we had a discussion with the Board of Regional Hospitals and next Friday will be discussed at the event of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria in Borovets, related to municipal hospitals as well. Once all their proposals for modification or improvement of the Methodology are reflected, it will be published. What I'm trying to say is that 99% of the matter recorded in Methodics is accepted by district and municipal hospitals. The expectations are that the implementation of the Methodology will bring about a balance between the financial opportunities of medical institutions and the level of remuneration of medical professionals, transparency and justice in determining the individual level of remuneration. A Regulation on validating standards for financial activity implemented by state and municipal hospital care institutions and complex oncology centres has been adopted and is to be published. Expected results.. increase financial discipline, planning financial resources and optimization of costs which should also lead to opportunities for raising the remuneration of medical professionals. In the first quarter of 2019 from the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. The total cost of staff of 1 million was reported in the town of Vidin. 487 thousand. 362 BGN, including 1 million. 246,000. £798. for remuneration and 240 564 BGN for insurance contributions. Out of the total wage costs for employment payments, 97.3% were paid, remuneration under management and control contracts and civil contracts.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The distribution of wage per category of staff is as follows: 33% for doctors, 41% for healthcare professionals, 15% for nurses and carers and 11% for other staff. The average staff of the hospital is 435 people, of whom 90 doctors, 197 nurses, 93 nurses and nurses and 55 other staff. As of 31 March 2019 the average monthly salary per main categories of staff is as follows: BGN 1458. for doctors, BGN 844. for health care specialists and BGN 673 For nurses and caretakers. The ratio between salaries for a doctor, a healthcare specialist and a caretaker according to the reported data for the first quarter of 2019 is: 2.2:1,3:1. I would like to assure you that these salaries that I read just now will be further increased, as you know that, at the beginning of last week, an annex to the framework contract was signed, which increased the prices of a large number of clinical pathways, which will have a direct impact on staff costs and the increase in hospital salaries. In addition, the hospital receives funding from the Ministry of Health under Regulation No 3 for activities outside compulsory health insurance, where prices are also increased significantly. I mean, those salaries I've read won't be like that by the end of the year. There will soon be a conversation between management and word organizations with doctors, nurses, nurses and so on, so these salaries will be increased. At the moment, I do not know why all these people are expressing themselves by different political powers or other institutions, that this is almost what they have received and there will be no more increase. It is yet to come, but it is a question of the process of technology........................................................................................................................................................................... I made a commitment that the increase will be from 1 July 2019. People will get it, but in July. Why do we have to make protests right on the eve of the increase in wages, I can't understand that?! In conclusion, I assure you that everything is being done to ensure fair and transparent procedures in determining the salaries of medical professionals, but the Minister of Health cannot unilaterally determine the amount of remuneration, which I think we all understand very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u103	Dear Minister, I will start with the last thing you said that the Minister of Health cannot interfere with individual salaries. I'd like to draw your attention to two things. We are addressing you with two questions: what measures have the government taken and intends to take the Ministry of Health for the stabilisation of the trading company as a principal? After all, the state participation in the Vidin hospital is 83.21 per cent. As MPs, we are not interested in the employer, but in the owner, who can at any time, when something is not working, change the employer in this case the CEO. Moreover, in connection with the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Petka "JSC" Vidin, we remind you that in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Health there was and now there is a Directorate of State Participation in Commercial Companies and Property. If you read its functions in t. 21, you will meet the text: supposes activities related to the management of state-owned companies. Mr. Minister, I think that this Directorate, except to observe and prepare documentation on many things, should have long since referred to both the former ministers and you and the Ministry of Health as the main principal, be able to take timely measures for the management not only of the Vidin hospital, but also of other public hospitals which are in serious condition. Secondly, as MPs, we still expect the Methodology that you have developed to come. I am convinced that it has been done extremely professionally, but accept a humble opinion, I think, judging by its title, it is not what both the Vidin hospital and our entire health care needs. You've developed, I say, something small, without deciding, and we'll get acquainted with this methodology and decide together, maybe more global. I think that you should develop as a professional methodology for managing the total revenues and the total costs of working with public financial resources in health care. Thus, two things will be achieved: firstly, we will bind the financial and human resources and, secondly, so formulated and set the methodology, again I say, without being a professional, will apply to all medical and health institutions regardless of the type of property. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I am convinced that you can do it, Mr. Minister, and I think the debate will continue in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u104	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u105	Dear Dr. Naydenova, if you look at the budgets of the Ministry of Health for a longer period back in the years, you will see that as much investment expenditure as we were able to protect this year, the Ministry of Health has never achieved. And I say again, they're not enough, but they're considerably higher. That is to say, we know that investment in the healthcare system is extremely important, and in order for our hospitals to be competitive with other hospitals, especially private hospitals, there must be serious investment in this area. The hospital in Vidin is also one of the hospitals we invest in. If you look at the investment plan for last year and for this year, you will see that we have made investments, of course, within the limits of our options that are needed in order to increase the volume and quality of work in the hospital. About what you said there should be standards for financial management, if you noticed in my speech, besides the methodology for the formation of staff costs and, respectively, salaries in public and municipal hospitals, I also mentioned a regulation for adopting standards for financial activity. This Regulation on Financial Activity Standards covers the overall activity of the hospital and what you are proposing is included. Of course, it's in the project and it'll be ready any minute. So all these things put together, I think, will give a strong impetus to improving financial discipline, financial management. I think these will be instruments with which, as you said, no matter who will run the hospital, he will have to follow these rules and take the hospital out of critical position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question to Minister Ananiev from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev on the campaign for vaccination of the population. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, since 1998 in America and in the world, and in Bulgaria a little later, an anti-vaccinal movement began. Only 20 years later, the damage to this movement is so serious that there are serious concerns, and diseases, such as measles, mumps, Reuben, polio, polio and coclush, show a serious growth of about 30%. The World Health Organization at the beginning of this year published a list stating the refusal of immunization as one of the main dangers for 2019. Along with influenza pandemic, air pollution and climate change, spina, cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, the refusal of immunization is also ordered. In Bulgaria we have vaccines, we have a National Immunization Calendar, we have relatively active immunization campaigns, and the situation is becoming more and more risky because the non-immunitized are increasing. For example, in our country a disease like measles goes up. To questions asked by me and my colleagues about the spread of a number of infectious diseases, such as the quoted measles, you answer, I quote: "In the conditions of the epidemic spread of measles virus, a secure protection of the population can only be expected in order to achieve a high immunisation range. And more: The health ministry through its regional structures conducts strict supervision of the implementation of the country's immunization calendar. explanatory talks shall be held with parents and persons refusing immunization, as well as information campaigns of disadvantaged groups and remote access from healthcare. In addition, the project of a national programme for the elimination of measles and Reuben 2018 " 2021', which includes the achievement and maintenance of a high immunisation range of more than 95% at national and regional levels through targeted vaccination campaigns and improving the accessibility and quality of information intended for professionals and the public in relation to diseases, the benefit and risk of vaccination against measles and Reuben. You also say that protecting the health of Bulgarian citizens against vaccine-preventable diseases is a top priority of the Ministry of Health, with the aim of ensuring years of health, especially for Bulgarian children. And so on and so forth. In this regard and in relation to the increasing incidence of infectious diseases and the active antivaccinal campaign you have identified and conducted a number of preventive events, including an agitation campaign on vaccination. My question to you is: do you take into account the effect of the preventive measures carried out and is the percentage of vaccinated increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u109	Dear Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The contagious and parasitic diseases which, according to art. 2 of Ordinance No 21 of 2005 on the procedure for registration, reporting and reporting of infectious diseases are subject to compulsory registration, notification and reporting; 65. Of these, there are mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations against 11 vaccines: viral hepatitis type B, tuberculosis, diphtheria, tetanus, hairline, poliomyelitis, haemophilus influence type B, pneumococcal infections, measles, epidemic parotitis and rubeola. After import of measles virus from Italy and Germany in mid-February 2019 in the districts of Blagoevgrad, Sofia and Sofia, there was an outbreak of measles. As of 17 June 2019, 933 cases of measles were registered. Children in age groups are most affected: from 0 to 1 year - 140 cases; from 1 to 4 years - 287, and from 5 to 9 years - 275. In order to limit the disease, the Ministry of Health, through its regional structures, took the necessary anti-epidemic and preventive measures, namely: active search by the personal doctors of children from 13 months to 18 years of age who are incomplete immunization status for age; early detection of clinical symptoms of measles and organization of the necessary actions for communication, registration, isolation, diagnosis and treatment; consultation with an infectious person with suspicion of measles, guidance for hospitalization and treatment; isolation of patients with fever until the diagnosis is specified; provision of bedside capacity for the reception of patients; laboratory confirmation of infection at the National Reference Laboratory at the National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases; maintenance of up-to-date information on the epidemiological situation and measures taken on the websites of the Ministry of Health and Regional Health Inspections. The Ministry of Health established a National Coordination Council for the Control of measles, for analysis of the situation, evaluation of the phased implementation of the measures, proposals for taking new measures and others. For the implementation of the cited preventive immunization measures are provided mobile offices to cover those in the districts of Sofia-city and Blagoevgrad and a temporary immunization cabinet is revealed in Sofia district. There are sufficient amounts of measles vaccine available in the country to cover the toddlers. Health mediators on the ground cooperate with regard to the search for unimmunitized, explaining the need for timely medical care in a disease and raising awareness of the population. As a result, in the first 5 months of 2019 they were hunted and covered with measles, mumps and Reuben vaccines in total 68,559 children in all districts of the country. At present, the disease has been registered in eleven areas. With the highest incidence of 100 000 population is Sofia District s. 296 cases, followed by districts Kyustendil 105, Blagoevgrad, 172, and Sofia-city 305 cases. The other seven affected areas are Burgas, Veliko Tarnovo, Montana, Pazardzhik, Pernik, Plovdiv and Ruse, where there have been isolated cases or small epidemic outbreaks, and in five of them there have been more than one incubation period since the last recorded case, without registering a new case. In the last month there are no new affected administrative areas of the country. Currently, there is a trend of retention of the development of the epidemic process. In the event of a change in the epidemiological situation, the National Coordination Council for the Control of measles will propose to the Minister of Health additional anti-epidemic measures on the basis of a risk analysis and assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. You have said so many measures that you have taken that there is not enough time within parliamentary control. With us, the question was: what is the effect of these measures? I am sure that the Ministry of Health and all the authorities dealing with these infectious diseases and immunization against them do not stand at peace, but act on the issue because the situation is not only in Bulgaria, but also in the world is not good in the case of vaccination and rather the number of people covered by vaccinations. It seems to me that the measures are being applied permanently, but in relation to increasing infectious diseases, you have taken some extraordinary measures. Is it not time for the Ministry of Health or other responsible institutions to analyse these measures, to see which are effective and which are not effective and those who are not effective, to strengthen them, for others not to spend money if I may say so, or not to put efforts into them so that we can have some serious success against these anti-vaccinal movements? I am not a specialist in advertising campaigns, especially in health campaigns, but it seems to me that in these campaigns we miss moments such as the fact that the anti-vaccinal movement on social networks is the most enhanced. I don't know how you can get into these social networks, but I don't think there's any serious medicine there for vaccination, and that's a problem. I think some of the measures should be to increase the responsibility of general practitioners. Why don't we build a register of non-immunity, because that wouldn't be much of a task? 60,000 children are born about a year and can be followed very closely. When there is a risk of epidemiological spread of infectious diseases, infectious diseases, these people should be monitored more closely through general practitioners, I am not talking about other monitoring. In the end, Mr. Minister, is there any increase in the relative number of immunized individuals due to these campaigns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u113	Dear Mr. Gokov, I want to assure you that the National Coordination Council at its meetings is doing a full analysis of all the measures we have taken, and where there is some lag, we are taking the relevant decisions immediately. Whether it will be related to general practitioners, whether we will have to go to settlements where there are risk groups, whether we will send mobile teams to this National Coordination Council every week does an analysis. For example, based on this analysis, the National Coordination Council proposed to me at its last meeting that we increase by 20,000 doses of measles vaccine to conduct exceptional immunisation in children up to 8 years in the most affected areas and neighborhoods. That's one of the measures you offered me. Another measure that you have proposed is to create conditions and this has already made it the National Health Insurance Fund to increase the monthly limit of the specialized hospital dealing with the treatment of this disease. We do a weekly analysis and take concrete measures to reduce measles morbidity, especially in children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov on the remuneration of medical specialists in health care. Dear Associate Professor Yordanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u115	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Our question is related to the tension that is generated in the community of health care professionals, or as known nurses, lab technicians, paramedics and so on. A moment ago, in response to a question, you stated that you do not understand why there is tension at the moment, provided that you have taken measures from 1 July to receive increased remuneration. The answer is very simple and you should know it: the nurses do not contact the minister, they contact their employer, who is the director of the hospital. At the moment, the directors of hospitals answer that they do not have the opportunity to increase the remuneration of nurses and will not have this opportunity in the next period. That's why the voltage is generating again. I do not agree with your answer that you do not have a legal opportunity to intervene in determining the remuneration of nurses. In addition to nurses in hospitals that are commercial companies, we have nurses in kindergartens, nurses in schools, in the education system, nurses in organs, enterprises at the Ministry of Health, such as psychiatrists, where you have the opportunity to directly determine remuneration. Dear Minister, at present every nurse in Bulgaria receives at least one minimum wage. The nurses' request is for a minimum remuneration of two minimum salaries. 29 thousand nurses in Bulgaria by the end of the year are required no more than 12 million leva. With what the Council of Ministers spends today, I think that this money can safely be provided. My question to you is this: We have heard one side of the nurses, which has been announced at public events and we want to understand what you promise them, what time will you realize the promise of a more dignified reward? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u116	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov, Dr. Timchev and Mr. Gokov, the protests of the health care professionals cause concern and concern, which I have expressed many times during the meetings held, but the commitments made by me are not related to a single act, but to systematic actions that require a careful and thoughtful approach. In line with the commitments made, the Ministry of Health has developed a Draft Methodology for the formation of staff costs and salaries of medical and non-medical staff in state and municipal hospital care facilities, which was discussed with the word organizations, with the associations of university, district and municipal hospitals, with the Branch Council for Tripartite Cooperation in the Hospital and after the last clarification and consideration of the proposals being made is due to come into force. The basic principles laid down in the draft methodology are: to provide general guidance to medical institutions on how staff costs are created in order to prevent an uneven ratio between remuneration in different medical institutions; to avoid discrimination or unfair treatment of staff in determining the level of remuneration and to ensure fairness and transparency in determining the salaries of workers in medical establishments. The expectations are that the application of the methodology will balance the financial opportunities of medical institutions and the level of remuneration of medical professionals, that justice and transparency will be achieved when determining the individual amount of remuneration. The publication and introduction of the Regulation on the validation of standards for financial activity applied by state and municipal hospitals for hospital care and complex oncology centers developed by the Ministry of Health on the basis of art. 6, para. 6 of the Law on Medical Institutions. The expected results of the implementation of the regulation are related to raising financial discipline, planning financial resources, optimizing expenditure, which should also lead to opportunities for raising the remuneration of medical professionals. I am confident that, with the introduction of the Regulation establishing standards for financial activity and the Methodology for the formation of staff costs and salaries in medical institutions, there will be clear rules and transparency in determining remuneration. The hospital care facilities will also be able to rely on additional funds related to the increase in the prices of clinical pathways under the contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund, the Regional Health Insurance Fund and the update of some of the values for activities outside the compulsory health insurance, according to the subsidy contracts with the Ministry of Health. I hope this will also contribute to improving the financial situation of state and municipal medical institutions, which will also reflect on the increase in remuneration for medical professionals. The next week are expected meetings with the district multi-profile hospitals for active treatment, which will mainly discuss the remuneration of medical professionals. In conclusion, I am confident that by the end of the year, the effect of all the actions taken so far will result in a stabilisation of the financial situation of the medical institutions and consequently an increase in remuneration, including health care professionals. Speaking of which, next week we're going to visit all the district hospitals in the country, I want to let you know that we have already given the estimates that the district hospitals will receive both on the line of the National Health Insurance Fund and under Regulation No 3. We have given them in particular the text of the wage-making mechanism, because there are texts that say what the amount of staff costs should be within the total amount of revenue, what may be the amount of additional remuneration within staff costs, what should be the ratio between a health care professional and a doctor. That is, there are certain rebars there, let's call them, which will allow for a fairer and more transparent allocation of staff costs. Every time we visit these hospitals in the six regions, we will be looking at a hospital and then I will be able to clearly say whether the regulations and mechanisms that we offer are complied with and whether, within the framework of the financial situation of the hospitals, the levels that provide for the collective employment contract signed in the Health Council will be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. Docent Yordanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I would agree with the proposed measures and I believe that they would be effective if hospitals were not commercial companies. Your measures are very well suited to a previous system when the Ministry of Health was able to implicitly introduce the rights and obligations of hospitals and had to carry them out, but, unfortunately, hospitals are commercial companies. I do not know why the Ministry is categorically running away from what needs to be done and which will solve the problem of the work salary........................of medical work and its share called the service path......................... This is the only mechanism on which at the moment commercial hospitals can guarantee payment according to the revenues of each hospital trading company of the relevant category of staff. This I think is effective because in a few days you will make sure that 99% of Bulgarian hospitals cannot do what you want to give them in terms of salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u120	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u121	Professor Yordanov, at the very beginning I said that this is not a process that can be solved in three months or a year after it has been accumulated decades ago. The point is, this process has been initiated. It will be lasting in order to achieve really decent salaries for people who work in health care. However, this is one of the tools that we propose for the development of methodology, standards and so on. Pretty soon, I will be going out to the Second National Round Table in which I will announce what the Ministry of Health's proposal is for the new funding model, which will, of course, also contribute to optimising the structure of health institutions, optimizing their activities, optimizing the spending of funds, and thereby achieving decent salaries for the people who work in this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. The last eleventh question to Minister Ananiev is from the MP Stefan Burgeev and is about taking action to combat mosquitoes. Dear Mr. Burgeev, please ask your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u123	Dear Mr. Hristov, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! Dear Minister Ananiev, the last one, but I hope it is not a matter of importance to take action to combat mosquitoes. Mr. Minister, as a result of the many rains in recent weeks, huge quantities of mosquitoes have already been available. Particularly serious is the problem in municipalities along the Danube River, which requires extraordinary measures to combat this huge problem. In order to ensure the effectiveness of measures, a cardinal decision is needed with the help of the executive. In view of the real danger of the spread of a number of viruses, including malaria, I address you with the following question: what action will the Ministry take to combat this present huge problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, according to art. 31, para. 1 of the Health Act and the provisions of Ordinance No 1 of 5 January 2018 on the terms and conditions for the carrying out of disinfections, disinsects and deratizations (ADI), natural and legal persons managing and enjoying different types of sites such as food, medical establishments, kindergartens, parks, green areas, places of rest and others are obliged to provide for their own account the activities of disinfects, disinsects and deratizations. These activities are carried out by registered in the Ministry of Health specialized companies. In the light of the above, the Ministry of Health is not financially involved in the conduct of dissecting and desaccharizing activities. Preventive measures to reduce the number of vectors along the Danube, Maritsa, Struma and Places rivers, as well as along other large water basins are organised and financed by municipalities which should plan funds annually in their budgets for these purposes. In carrying out its statutory commitments on the surveillance of infectious diseases annually, the Ministry of Health, through regional health inspections, shall order the prescribed activities in the timely organisation and conduct of effective dissection treatments on the territory of the country. Since the beginning of 2019, 403 regulations have been issued to the mayors of municipalities, mayors of regional administrations, other public-use sites for the timely organization and holding of complex events. As of 30 May 2019, 803 checks were carried out on the quality and effectiveness of the treatments, checks on natural and legal persons carrying out those checks. Two acts have been made for administrative violations of mayors of municipalities for failure to comply with the prescribed measures. 679 inspections are planned until the end of the epidemic season. Regional health inspections will continue to provide the necessary expert assistance in determining the risk treatment sites, the selection of the most effective preparations, the methods and time limits for the treatment of the areas, and to control the quality and effectiveness of the events carried out. The Ministry of Health through regional health inspections conducts daily surveillance of registered acute infectious diseases in the country, including transmissible infections, and, within its regulatory powers, will continue to carry out activities to achieve a modern and integrated approach to the protection of public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u126	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Burgeev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I was hoping for greater understanding and empathy. I'm not fascinated by your answer, Mr. Minister, since it was purely administrative. To tell you why I've come this far to ask this question, to give the opinion of both the competent local authorities and a huge number of residents who signaled me over the phone, on social media, on a huge number of photos of people bitten and caused allergic reactions. Here is an opinion from Dolni Dubnik Municipality, which will further argue why we are all addressing you and I as a representative of the people: "We must treat them at least four times a year. In the previous years, the municipality was not able to carry out this event because it had a scarce budget and had no allocation for this activity. With priority budget allocation are funds for educational institutions, social services, public service and other activities. In the past few years, I stress, and the Ministry of Finance has not granted a target subsidy to combat mosquitos. The problem of the municipality of Gulyantsi, as well as the other Danube municipalities, is extremely serious, which requires the need to seek support from the central government. In order to ensure the effectiveness of combating the problem, a cardinal solution is also needed, which is not within the capabilities and powers of the local authorities. It is our opinion that the destruction of mosquitoes should take place through widespread spraying of affected areas along the Danube River and I thank my colleague, who reminded me a second ago that the Danube coast is extremely state property, with professional means and equipment for their mass destruction, as well as synchronized actions by a Romanian country, which is within the capabilities of the central government. I think these are convincing enough arguments that the problem cannot be solved with this regulatory base and what has been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u129	Dear Mr. Burdzhev, you are a member of parliament. You offer and pass the laws in the state. All that you've read is very good, but why are you addressing me? That's what I don't understand. What do you want me to do right now, pull out of the Ministry of Health's budget to carry out the appropriate mosquito spray?! Please, when you prepare your questions, decide who to send them to. We have certain competences supposed by law, we are not a financing institution that finances municipalities so that you can demand it from us. We have specific commitments and we are fulfilling them as you understand, even more than we should. Please let those who write your questions tell you who you should address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. This concludes the questions to Minister Ananiev. Dear Minister, you answered nine questions and two questions today for parliamentary control. Thank you for your calm, reasoned and competent attitude. Once again, thank you. We continue with Minister Petya Avramova. The first question to Minister Avramova is from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Pencho Milkov and Georgi Stoilov regarding the necessary reconstruction of a intersection at the exit of the town of Ruse towards the city of Varna. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, fellow MPs! The intersection of the exit of the town of Ruse on the road to the city of Varna at the crossroads for the city of Jumbo is with intensive movement. There is a prerequisite for many road accidents and many are registered. In the period from 2014 to 2018, 51 crashes were reported, where there were 26 injured and, unfortunately, one died. In February this year at the initiative of the Ruse District Prosecutor's Office an interdepartmental meeting was organized for this problem section, attended by representatives of the prosecution, district and municipal government, police, regional road management and other authorities that are interested. Measures have been identified by these institutions involved, which I can divide into short-term and long-term. The short-term measures are the ones that we will most likely hear in your response related to the horizontal marking, with the vertical signal, with increased police control, with speed limitation. Among the long-term measures taken is the construction of a intersection of this problem section. Unfortunately, in the last few days when we asked the question, there were also new traffic accidents registered. Dear Minister, our questions to you are: what measures have been taken so far to limit the traffic accidents of this area and when is a crossroads intended to be built at this place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoilov, Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Milkov! The subject of your question is a crossroads in the regulation of the town of Ruse, on which are crossed Republican road I-2 Ruse On 11 February this year, at the initiative of the District Prosecutor's Office Ruse, an interdepartmental meeting was held to discuss the problems related to the high number of accidents in the area of the intersection. The meeting was attended by representatives of the District Prosecutor's Office Ruse, Regional Administration Ruse, Ruse Municipality, Ruse District Road Management, and Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Ruse. In order to reduce the number of traffic accidents in the intersection area, experts proposed short-term and long-term measures for the implementation of which a protocol was signed between the Parties. At present, each of the two institutions has fulfilled its commitments with regard to short-term measures. Ruse Municipality has committed: - refreshing the horizontal marking in the intersection area, duplication of the road sign "B26" indicating a traffic ban at a speed higher than 60 km per hour, in both directions before the intersection; - placing a road sign - placing of a road sign "A40" - section with the concentration of road crashes before the intersection; - placing of road signs "B2" stop, skip those moving on the road with priority; and "G5" "move only straight or left after the sign of the intersection in the middle separation island; - posting a road sign "G2" and moving only to the right after the sign of road I-2 Ruse Razgrad at the distinct right end bar for making a right turn to the store "Jumbo". The Road Infrastructure Agency in the face of the Regional Road Management Ruse has carried out a new horizontal marking type of road marking on both directions of Ruse Razgrad and Razgrad Ruse according to Regulation No 2 of 2001 on road signalling. Following the implementation of short-term measures, a reduction in traffic accidents in the intersection area has been observed. According to sector data, two minor material damage accidents have been recorded in the department since the beginning of the year. The long-term measure proposed at the meeting envisions the development of a project for reconstruction of the existing intersection with a view to transforming it into a circular one. According to the signed protocol, taking action to implement this measure should be preceded by a joint proposal of the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively Regional Road Management Ruse, and Ruse Municipality for the implementation of the project. As the section falls into urbanised territory, actions and commitments between the two institutions need to be coordinated. In this connection on 19 June was held an initiating meeting on the problem between specialists of Regional Road Management and Deputy Mayor of Ruse Municipality. At the meeting were discussed options and proposals for common actions of the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively Regional Road Management, and Ruse Municipality on the preparation of a project for a circular intersection and the implementation of construction works. Currently, Ruse Municipality is discussing the issues discussed at the meeting regarding its opportunities for participation in the project, with a second meeting to be held within the next month and in a broader scope of the participating experts and heads of the two institutions to identify and discuss specific commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u135	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I will say that I am not satisfied with the answer and I will explain why. It is clear that the so-called initiation meeting on 19 June is about the question we have asked more than clear, that is the day before yesterday. And it is not clear why from another meeting in October 2017. This is almost two years ago when Ruse was once again the Chairman of the API Board of Directors, again the deputy mayor in question, mayor, institutions gather to talk about three issues, one of which is the crossroads in question. And it becomes clear to everyone that this intersection must be circular in order to prevent these transport accidents. It is clear that the road is Republican.. between Ruse, Razgrad and Varna. How can public opinion be reassured when you tell us that two days ago there was a start-up meeting after this meeting was two years ago in Ruse, October 2017? And since then, nothing. Say: from the 2017 meeting, when it is said that there should be a circular in this place, what is over? Then, by the way, there was also talk about the Dougian Bridge in Ruse, something else I asked you about, again in 2017. Sad day-to-day statistics have been lost in accidents, they are shrinking because the same people are going down this path and they have probably already learned that they are constantly crashing people become more careful. But a good organization of movement requires a circular one. I can't understand with this I will finish: is it so difficult for a country like Bulgaria, which fixed the problem two years ago, to carry out a republican crossroads? It's not hard for me. The argument that the initiating meeting had begun two days ago, I think they do not satisfy anyone from Ruse. We demand that this be done in an urgent manner, that people's safety be guaranteed. [[the President signals that time has run out]] And I expect you to commit to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milkov, it is clear that the short-term measures have been implemented and that this has had an impact on the movement in this circular intersection in view of the declining traffic accidents and taking into account that they are light only with damage to the cars. It is clear that, apart from road infrastructure, we also have a problem with road users who need to follow the signs and restrictions as well as to monitor traffic on the road. What I am committed to is to inform you of the meeting to be held in July on the decisions taken at this meeting. At the same time, to express my dissatisfaction with both you and I, that in Bulgaria the means of roads are never in the size we all want. At the same time, the state is making efforts in all areas of the country to solve the problems that exist on the road network. I'll just tell you a few numbers. In 2018 Ruse District was filled with funds from the state budget worth a little more than 1 million for reconstruction, doubling the road sail on road II-21 Ruse. In the process of implementation are the following objects: - repair of Republican road I-5 Ruse, value of 6 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - repair of a Republican road from 6 to 44 km lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - repair of the 2nd-54 train station Byala "Tsenovo" Karamanovo from 0 to 13 km, just over 6 million. lv. In 2019 the implementation of the site was launched again with funds from the state budget. "Repair of the Republican Road III-2302 Red water" "Semerdzhievo "Sensovo" - Spacious, worth just over 6 million. lv. The state is trying to prioritize and take care of all roads, as you can see, and those in Ruse district, so the problem with the roundabout will also find its solution. I'll let you know the outcome of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u138	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question to Minister Avramova is from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoynev regarding the stage of implementation of the project for doubling an existing track of road I-5, in the section from km 236,3 to 241,6 in order to achieve gauge D 20. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! This is an extremely important issue for the Stara Zagoras and Mr. Hristov the Vice-President of the National Assembly will confirm it. The question is about the condition of the only connection of the fifth largest, with a population of more than 150 thousand people, the district town of Stara Zagora, with the highway of Trakia. This big city has been left with a single connection to the highway and what state the road is in explainably exciting for Stara Zagoras since the distant 2005 - 2006. You know that the links, the approaches of a city to key roads, such as the highway, are of great importance for the development of transport and through them the economic connections of the region. Stara Zagoras, including myself, believe that we do not have any normal connection to the highway. This claim is based on the fact that the connection through the Chirpan road node is located 50 km from the city and there is no normal speed road The connection of the road node Freedom is located 25 km from the city and there is no normal road speed again: Rakitnitsa and Bogomilovo. The connection through Nova Zagora road node is located more than 40 km from the city and there is no normal road speed, but is passed on a third-class road network. The six-kilometer connection between Stara Zagora and Trakia Motorway is perhaps the only relatively normal connection, but it is a two-way, not a speed road, and in the peak moments these 6 km are not as normal.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a prerequisite for voltage among drivers of motor vehicles and a prerequisite for road accidents. There are further aggravating circumstances that I am not going to specify at the moment, but my question to you is: at what stage is the implementation of the draft for doubling the existing track of the section from road I-5 from km 236,3 to 241,6 in order to achieve gauge D 20. This is the only link between Stara Zagora and the road node of the highway "Trakiya" to km 208. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, honourable MPs! On the question you have already asked in 2018, the then Minister of Regional Development Mr. Nankov has informed you that you will be able to include the project for doubling the existing route of road I-5 in order to achieve gauge D 20 by two lanes of movement in the direction, dividing stripes and two banquets. In API's investment program, as you know, for the existing section of the Republican road I-5 "The town of Stara Zagora" and highway "Trakiya" with a length of about 5 km, from km 236 to 241, is available Technical project, which was developed in 2008. The project provides for besides gauge D 20 also reconstruction of the affected engineering networks. The ground security procedure for the site is over, with a decision of the Council of Ministers of 2014 estranged properties and parts of private property affecting the parcel plan. Property owners are compensated for the amounts due. The Agency has acquired ownership of the affected parts. Unfortunately, the technical design is no longer up to date and does not meet the current requirements. It is necessary to draw up a new procurement order to select a designer to update the technical documentation. In order to conduct both this procedure and the procedures for selecting a contractor for the construction works and supervision, their financial security is necessary. According to a preliminary assessment, the indicative value for the realization of the site is about 25 million. lv. The value of the construction works can be specified only after the revision of the project. The Agency's investment programme over the past 10 years has been extremely large, building both large infrastructure sections and smaller sites, and rehabilitating numerous road sections across the country, ensuring connectivity of individual areas that favour business climate development and improving quality of life. This, in turn, implies significant funds, which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency jointly, through various mechanisms and tools, are trying and seeking to provide. Unfortunately, budgetary resources are not sufficient, which is among the main reasons why the Agency's investment programme for each calendar year should be carefully assessed and prioritised. In view of the above, I inform you that the implementation of the site will be planned by the Agency. This extension has been reported as necessary. The other MPs from Stara Zagora, and on my site visits, both the public and the business, and we, and the Road Infrastructure Agency, are of the opinion that this section should be expanded and access to the highway in a normal way. What we are committed to in 2019 is the launch of the procedure for updating the 2008 Technical Project and, respectively, 2020 - 2021 to seek targeted funds for the construction of the four-band road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u142	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you have guessed the reason why I asked this question is my question from March 2018 and commitments made then. I will now read you the shorthand of 23 March 2018, because I am concerned about your response. I am very worried because this is another promise for Stara Zagoras since 2006. I'm reading you the shorthand. The commitment is taken by your predecessor, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and your current deputy. In 2018 we will get a construction permit for the site and I make a commitment from this tribune that in 2019 it will be included in the Agency's budget programme. After removing the building permit, we will decide whether it is appropriate to start with the procedure under the Public Procurement Act, as we do with other sites to save time, and in 2019, after the provision of the resource I make as a commitment from this tribune, to start with real activities, after respectively the weather conditions at the beginning of the construction season 2019 allow the construction itself. At my insistence on more concrete commitments, the minister answers: "But what I am taking as a commitment is that 2020 will have such an approach. It's hard to tell if it's April or May. If everything goes well as an award procedure, we will build it in 2019 within not more than 9 months. The budget will be provided for next year, i.e. 2019, I mentioned, and this year we will end the process of processing the technical project.. We have alienations, we are working on them, on parcel plans and so on. We are reworking it this year The project, we are taking out a construction permit and we are launching the tender procedure. In 2019, life and health, at this time we will start with the realization of the site, 9 and 10 months and is ready. Something very important, again the Minister's words: "The fact is that this commitment that I make, I will pursue it and I will realize it, life and health, my heirs too, if by then there is another minister, to continue their commitments that I have made. Everything that depends on me at present, I mentioned. No later than May, a work project, a construction permit within the month of June, let's say, at the beginning of July we launch a tender procedure. By this time of next year there will be an elected contractor, and the construction itself...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u145	...is the easy process. Madam Minister, I'm going to ask you an additional question. When do you think the Stara Zagoras will have a normal connection to the highway after one, after two, after five, after ten, after a hundred years? Tell me from this tribune and you what [[the President signals that time has run out]] You commit to them so people know what awaits them next year?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, you are one of the MPs who ask a lot of questions in parliamentary control and you have probably already understood that I do not make vain promises. So if Mr. Nankov, as a minister, had his vision of budget allocation at the Road Infrastructure Agency, if he had expectations of a larger budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, if he had had expectations of revenue from the introduction of the Tol system in Bulgaria, it was his assessment at the time when he made these promises. I will try to be realistic, as I strive to be, because I do not want people to expect this construction to start by the end of 2019. We have several field areas in Bulgaria under which are completed the alienation procedures, which, in the case of secured financing, we can start building. This five-mile stretch, just over five kilometers, is one of them. So what we are committed to is having an updated project, so that when we provide funding, God willing, this is 2020, 2019 is not going to happen, 2019 to update the project and 2020 to be ready for real construction activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. Question to Minister Avramova from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on the salary of the employees in the water sector. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Avramova! The water sector in Bulgaria employs just over 15 thousand people. According to the trade union the average wage in the sector is 855 BGN, or about 40% lower than the average salary in the country. The engineers at the water companies are about 1% of all employed. The number of workers on a minimum wage has increased significantly and reaches nearly 20% of the employees in the sector. The salaries of low-qualified personnel are equalized with those of highly qualified workers and employees. There are water companies where two thirds of the workers are on minimum wage. Among the workers there is a petition and readiness for more effective action if the remuneration is not raised. The turnover is great, the work is getting more and the specialists are getting less and less, respectively, the payments do not rise, but remain at the same level for many years now. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will you take to update the wages of the employees in the water sector without, however, being linked to an increase in the cost of water?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, a very current issue for the water sector. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works conducts policies in the water sector at national level, as well as exercises the rights of the state as owner, partner or shareholder in part of the water companies in the country. The construction and maintenance of water supply and sewerage infrastructure is a priority activity for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, aiming to achieve compliance with national and European legislation in the field of drinking water, waste water extraction and treatment and increasing the efficiency of systems and facilities. Water operators have obligations to comply with the labour estimates provided for in the submitted and approved by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory Business Plans, which as a regulatory authority monitors the cost of the water service. The Commission approves prices of water services for the first year of the regulatory period and approves prices for the following years by artificially amending the required revenues of the water supply operator when applying the method above the price limit. At present, with regard to companies with principal, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission approved the business plans of 19 water and water operators of 29, and even with these 19 water operators, their business plans were approved with a significant delay by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which led to wage retention in the industry. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there is, unfortunately, a lag in payment, particularly in comparison with payment in companies providing other utilities, as well as a trend in the clearance of remuneration between professions due to an increase in the minimum wage, on the one hand, and the restrictions arising from the business plans of companies. The business plans established for the current year and the approved prices of regulated water services by the KEWRC allow certain levels of labor pay. Any change in the direction of an increase in employee income under equal conditions should have as a source a reduction of other necessary inherent costs of water operators such as a reduction in investments, which is unacceptable. In order to avoid wage growth at the expense of prices, the business plans of companies are described measures to increase efficiency in terms of saving other material costs, such as reducing costs of electricity, external services, raw materials and materials. The indicators for reducing water losses, increasing the collection rate of receivables and a number of others related to the organisation and management of companies are also monitored. A potential resource to raise the remuneration of workers is the personnel optimization measure, which includes a complex of interconnected actions for better effective load, qualification, requalification of the employed, and if the analyses show a need for reduction. I point out that, with an increase in the standard of living and the minimum wage, the average salary in the industry as an absolute amount has increased. The average monthly salary of one person from the staff of the water companies with state participation in the capital for 2016 is BGN 746.; 2017 BGN 782; 2018 That's probably not enough. Commercial companies in the water sector operate as independent operators and the remuneration of employees is not a question of the competence of the company's principal, which monitors this in relation to the management bodies. I point out that the amount of the average monthly salary for 2018 is within very wide limits, such as in Kyustendil it is BGN 676, where there is little water company, BGN 779. in Dobrich, where the water company is not in good financial condition, BGN 1059 in Ruse, where there is a large water service operator with better financial performance. The ratio between the highest and lowest average wages between the different operators with state participation is more than 1,6. The average monthly salary as of 31 December 2018 is BGN 873. and increased by 10% compared to the previous year. In addition, I note that the revenues from the activities of one staff member for 2018 are BGN 38 809, which is an increase of 10.5% compared to 2017 and shows an improvement in the effectiveness of the use of labour resources. At the same time, as of 31 December 2018, the total number of the average compositions of the public companies in the water sector was 14 079 people, with a decrease of 1.6%. 222 people compared to 2017. The quoted values with the state companies do not reflect information about the operator in Sofia and the small municipal operators. I note that whatever action is being taken by the principal and the company managers during the regulatory period 2017 - 2021, a problem and a delay in the increase in pay cause the fun in the adoption by the KEWR of the business plans of the companies for some has not yet been approved, and also the lack of synchronization of the regulator's policy regarding the two regulated electricity markets. energy and water sector. Unfounded growth in the price of electricity. energy, without being provided for in the prices of water services, runs out and continues to run out of small resources to allow more adequate payment of highly qualified personnel. As part of the measures taken by the MRB in order to regulate industry policy is the preparation of a special law in water supply and sewerage. An interdepartmental working group is currently being formed to prepare proposals, and they are expected to be finalised and proposed at a public discussion in the autumn. Several are the main objectives of the law. By introducing new provisions, compliance with European directives in the field of drinking and waste water must be achieved. It is also important to achieve sustainability of the offered water services, which means to replace what has been built in the past and to perform adequate maintenance and operation by competent specialists. A key point in the law will be the measures to increase efficiency through consolidation, savings and introduction of modern practices. We will propose to create wider opportunities for the sector's personnel, including with adequate pay for those working in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your long and spatial response. That much of the water operators are not ready with business plans is a problem on which I think you should work more strongly and more thoroughly. The fact that there is a large gap between salaries in small water companies and in large associations is again a problem in which the Ministry should take some measures and see how the water engineer in Kyustendil and the water engineer in Ruse can, as you said, take the same salary because the water engineer is everywhere a water engineer, so to speak. Surely the increase in salary should not be related to increasing the cost of water and reducing investment.. here I am 100% in agreement with you, but it can be considered a more serious optimization, for better management of the water associations. Other possible solutions are water poor vouchers that have been spoken of for quite some time. The Water Act, the Water Act, is a law we've been talking about for 20 years, and every new minister promises to have it, and it's somewhere on logs. I hope that soon we will have such a law and it will help better management of water companies in Bulgaria. Another possible solution for more funds in the water companies, where to come from and increase wages, is the fees for the water management of the companies.. half of them to remain in the water companies. This is also a possible option that should be used. I understand from your answer that there are many options that there are opportunities that are not used at the moment, however, and which need to be put into practice so that workers in this sector can receive a decent pay and have a guarantee of a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, what you have just proposed is largely consistent with the trends in the drafting of the new law. It will also have the social aspect that you have just proposed, in the form of vouchers. It will be determined exactly how to be defined in the law. We continue the water reform with joint efforts. It is a fact that consolidated companies, large companies have better opportunities, give better wages and are financially stable. The fact is that small water companies do not have the financial resources, they cannot generate one to perform both their role as a water service provider and to raise the salaries of the workers in them. So I hope that by 2020, all municipalities, municipal councils will consider carefully their participation in consolidation and the transition to a water operator in the territory of one area to have the opportunity to use the resources of the European Programme, and in the preparation of the law in the Interdepartmental Working Group we will accept any proposals. I would be grateful if you would submit your proposals in some form so that they fall into the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u156	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next is a question from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov about a failed implementation of part of a project under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" in Lovech. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in Lovech we are back in the fund, there is a need, but there is no need to carry out the activities that are under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014" " 2020", Priority Axis 1 "Sustainable, integrated urban development." On 10 January 2018, a contract was concluded between the municipality of Lovech and the unification of the Law and Obligations and Contracts Company. Dimitar Dimov is the only school without a sports hall in Lovech. The subject matter of the contract is the one I said, and the value is 1 million. 142,000. BGN 228. 84 cm. without VAT. A few days after the conclusion of the contract, the contractor is refused due to the fact that he cannot carry out the activities and will not meet the deadline. On 18 May, a new contract between Lovech Municipality and another association under the Debts and Contracts Act was signed with the same subject, also by Smolyan. The interesting thing is that in addition to the total uniformity of the two contracts, the address of the two combinations of the first and second contracts is the same, the telephone number and almost all data, including the two associations represented, are the same. After giving up, three other participants in the tender procedure are ignored and are again given to this participant, only with another firm and another unification. My question to you is: what are the amounts paid so far to the unification contractor, and what are the sanctions imposed on him for non-compliance with the contract? It must have already finished building the object, and the object is at ground zero and even some of the activities have not started. The second question is: does the managing authority also provide for sanctions to be imposed on the beneficiary of the project of Lovech Municipality for the failed project in the construction of this necessary sports hall? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u158	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u159	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr Nedyalkov, under the contract of 18 May 2018 with Contractor TORKRETE, concluded in connection with the implementation of the above project, are currently presented for reimbursement by the beneficiary expenditure of 479 thousand. 712 BGN, representing an advance payment of 35% of the value of the contract. Currently under contract with a contractor have not been verified and reimbursed by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme BGN 971. in relation to an alert received with doubts about an irregularity. The final amount of the reimbursement will be determined following final reporting by the beneficiary of the site and carrying out management checks for eligibility of expenditure by the managing authority of the Operational Programme. As regards the need to impose sanctions on the beneficiary, it should be borne in mind that the project activities are currently not complete and are not definitively taken into account by the beneficiary. The managing authority will carry out a verification of compliance with the contract terms for the implementation of the project activities after their completion upon request for reimbursement of the costs of a completed contract with a contractor by the beneficiary. In the event of an established delay in the performance of a particular activity, the latter shall be regarded as an amendment to the contract concluded with the contractor and a verification of the legality of the change found will be carried out and a financial correction will be imposed in the event of an infringement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u160	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I understand that your answer is from the point of view of the Ministry and it can hardly be any other. But I would like to say that around this procurement, the implementation of this contract has many things to hide. Already one winter, students from Primary School Prof. In Lovech Dimitar Dimov, the mud from the ruined surrounding area around the school and also the construction activities that took place. Today begins summer, by the beginning of the school year there are little less than 80 days. We understand the entire procedure of the companies, but it is a bit strange and too questionable in Lovech to carry out construction activities by a consortium which is based in Smolyan and the other company is also from Burgas. This is not only disturbing, this also brings about some other doubts and I think that the signals to the law enforcement authorities of Bulgaria are correctly made. But that's not what I'm interested in. The contract states that a large number of activities must be carried out. These are including very square meters of sports, pavement, reinforced concrete, metal construction. For those 80 days we had an example in 2013, when a sports hall was built in Lovech, about the same size, by hunting companies. This should also be reviewed in the implementation of the Ministry's policy in the control of the absorption of European funds. Not only what is required of the beneficiary, the Municipality of Lovech, and the Ministry, but must have stricter control in order to have no doubt about the use of European funds for other funding, even party funding, given the person who is running these orders from Smolyan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u162	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Will there be an additional answer? Here you are, Madam Minister, to answer the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u163	Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, in connection with your reply, I would like to assure you that the Managing Authority of the Operational Program is monitoring every single contract and is rather strict to the beneficiaries than tolerant, for which almost all beneficiary municipalities have financial corrections and are not satisfied with the strict control by the managing authority. I can assure you that the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme will do its work on control. In connection with your questioning, they are asked to review what you have exported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u164	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next, a question from the MP Alexander Matsurev. It is about the state of the second-class road II-19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! My question, Madam Minister, to you is the state of the second-class road II-19. Dear Minister, the Republican Road II-19 is a second-class road part of the Republican Road Network, passing entirely along the territory of Blagoevgrad district. Its length is 109.7 km, and its final point on Bulgarian territory is Ilinden border checkpoint. This time it's one of the busiest in the whole area. It is characteristic of the very high intensity of movement. This increases repeatedly during the summer season, as the tourist flow to the Hellenic Republic also increases. The road section I've designated has frequent cases of car accidents. As a national representative elected by First Mir, Blagoevgrad has been repeatedly alerted to me by citizens, especially the settlements of the village of Lossa, Bansko and Dobrinishte, through which the road passes, that there are serious prerequisites for road accidents due to excess of the legal speed, uncleaned sections of sand, violent vegetation and so on. In this regard, my questions are: what preventative action does the ministry of restraint, cleaning and limiting the speed of the Simitli road, Gotse Delchev, who passes through the settlements to ensure the life and health of the citizens? Is an additional marking of the road and so-called artificial bumps envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u166	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Matsurev, the safety of road infrastructure is the main priority of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency. At present, road safety experts at the Agency shall carry out analysis and evaluation and identification of measures for all areas identified in 2018 with the concentration of road accidents. Periodically, road safety inspections shall be carried out on all Republican roads, which shall contribute to its improvement. Regarding the questions asked concerning the Republic of the road II-19 Simitli "Gradevo "Razlog "................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. According to data from the Annual Report of the Regional Roads Administration, Blagoevgrad, the state of the Republican roads in the territory as of 31 December 2018 has been reported that road II-19 has good technical and operational qualities. In this year, all actions carried out on the route shall be financed by budget resources and shall comply with the regulated technical rules and requirements. Current maintenance of the road network includes activities providing conditions for continuous safe and convenient traffic. After the winter season for road II-19 priority is given to drainage, landscape shaping and cleaning of the waitout on the road. To date, the following activities have been carried out: cleaning of the road lane of inert materials, shaping of ground pits, trenches, mowing, cleaning of concrete gutters, cutting of shrubs and cutting of vegetation on road banquets and around road signs. About 20,000 funds have been spent. lv. The Agency will continue to direct resources along the road for landscape activities to ensure visibility and comfort. In order to ensure safe passage along the route of the Republican road before the beginning of the winter season, the axial marking in the section from Simitli to Bansko from km 0 to km 38 was renewed. For it are spent funds of 38 580 BGN. During the current construction season of the rest of the road from Bansko through the town of Gotse Delchev to the border with the Hellenic Republic, from km 38 to km 106, the work will be continued. The marking should be made by the end of September and a financial resource of 93 210 BGN is provided for. The organisation of the second-class traffic is fully regulated in accordance with the regulations laid down by the Road Traffic Act for areas passing through settlements, the speed is limited to 50 km. According to its competence, the Road Infrastructure Agency is monitoring the insecurity of road signs and fulfilling all of the changed obligations under the Roads Act. With regard to compliance with road rules, the Agency shall not be a competent control body. According to the records and reports of road accidents of II 19, which are held in the Ministry of Interior, a section classified as a section with the concentration of road accidents has been established along the second-class route. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is located from km 52 to km 52,600. At present, road safety experts from the Road Infrastructure Agency shall evaluate and analyse and identify appropriate track restraint measures. Mr. Chairman, I can finish in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u168	Yeah, that's why I gave the signal. I'm sorry, but we're following procedure. Mr. Matsurev, please come in for a reply and additional questions that will allow for further answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I greatly appreciate what you and representatives of your Ministry are doing, and I am pleased with the answer. In this regard, I would like to appeal to you to maintain, for example, greater control over the implementation of the markings to be placed, respectively, the terrains to be secured. I'm sure this thing will come in handy, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u170	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to supplement the answer and inform us of the facts that have remained unread.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to supplement information about Mr. Matsurev that along the rest of the route on road II-19, including in the settlements Places, Bansko and Dobrinishte, no areas with the concentration of crashes have been identified. Regarding the need to take restraint measures, I inform you that in the municipality of Bansko on June 6th a commission with representatives of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior of Blagoevgrad, the Municipality and Regional Road Management has gathered, carried out a review of the route in the village of Lossa and decided to build artificial bumps along the Republic road from km 61.050 to km 61.950, as well as on a pedestrian path at km 61+735. The construction of artificial bumps on the Republican road network passing through the settlements is carried out in accordance with Ordinance of 5 July 2012 on conditions for construction and installation on the canvas for movement of artificial bumps. In a minutes of the meeting are described the commitments of the countries - the Municipality of Bansko as well as the Road Infrastructure Agency - the Municipality of Bansko should prepare a project to change the organization of the movement and to coordinate it, also to place the corresponding vertical signal after building artificial irregularities and to ensure their illumination. And the Agency must build artificial bumps on the mentioned sections and make a horizontal marking. In addition, I inform you that on 14 June the Municipality of Bansko has not yet provided in Regional Road Management a project for changing the organization of the movement. This will probably happen in the coming days, which I can further inform you about fulfilling the commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u172	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Matsurev, you are welcome to develop your second question to Minister Avramova. It is about consolidation of water operators in the territory of Blagoevgrad district. You have the floor, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! My question is about the consolidation of water operators in Blagoevgrad region. For several years there has been a process of consolidation of water operators in the different districts of our country. This was necessary because the Partnership Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria, which outlines the aid from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the period 2014 " 2020" through the operational programmes, directs the means of building a water infrastructure in administrative areas in which services are provided by a water operator, as it ensures efficiency and the ability to maintain new systems and facilities in the future. In this regard, as MP from Blagoevgrad, I ask you the following questions: At what stage is the consolidation of the water operators in Blagoevgrad district and are there obstacles to its implementation? What will be the lost benefits measured in the service of the population and asset replacement if no application is made by the Water and Canal Operator of the Operational Program "Environment" for Blagoevgrad district? What is the total value of the funds from the Operational Programme, which is assigned to the area I have indicated, if consolidation of the water operators is achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u174	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Matsurev, an absolutely up-to-date and timely issue given the efforts the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is making for the water reform in Bulgaria. Before answering your question, I would like to make a statement that consolidation in the provision of water services means that within one administrative area all municipalities are members of a regional water association, and this association has a contract with a water operator for the management, maintenance and operation of water systems and facilities as well as the provision of services. In Blagoevgrad region, unfortunately, not all municipalities are currently members of the Regional Association of Water and Water. The municipalities of Sandanski and Kresna refuse to join the Association and the water services in them are provided by municipal operators. For the other 11 municipalities in the area on the basis of a contract with the Association of Water and Canal Services are provided by There is an Additional Agreement to the Treaty of 9 October 2018, setting out the relations for accession and provision of services in the territory of the municipality of Petrich, which will start from 1 January 2020. During the period 2012 - 2014 to determine the necessary funds for infrastructure development in the short, medium and long-term horizon with a loan from the World Bank were made regional general plans for the country's territory. The estimated investments to be invested in the systems in order to achieve mandatory compliance with the European directives on the territory of the country amount to nearly 12 billion. BGN, as for Blagoevgrad district amount to 300 million. lv. Such funds cannot be provided by the prices of water services without exceeding the social tolerance threshold, which is why it is essential that the completion of the systems is done with the maximum inclusion of grant funds from the European Union funds, a condition for the use of which is increased efficiency. I draw attention to the fact that the practice of providing water services shows an undisputed global trend for the consolidation of operators, which realises economies of scale when providing services to a larger number of users, increases efficiency and therefore generates more financial resources for maintenance, extension of systems and provides qualified staff for operational activities. Under the conditions set by the European Commission in order to ensure high efficiency and implementation of a regional approach in the use of infrastructure, European Structural Investment Funds grants are implemented only in administrative areas where the water services are provided by one operator for all municipalities. In practice, due to the refusal of two municipalities of Blagoevgrad to be members of the Regional Association, all 12 other municipalities in the district will not have the possibility of European financing projects to modernise water supply and sewer infrastructure. The conditions for funding under the Operational Programme "Environment" include following a regional approach, financing of water infrastructure in areas that are served by one water operator, and the sites are determined on the basis of a regional pre-investment survey. At present, the Ministry has developed regional pre-investment studies for 15 administrative areas. For Smolyan, the regional pre-investment study was piloted in 2015 and the Smolyan water service already concluded a grant agreement with the Operational Programme "Environment" for financing a project worth 91 million. lv. with VAT. For the remaining 14 districts the regional studies ended in 2018 and in the period February "April 2019" the water operators from these districts submitted project proposals to the Operational Programme "Environment". The amount of investments for different territories, given the different number of agglomerations to be built, is different from 25 million. lv. for Vidin up to 500 million lv. for Burgas. The projects are currently in an assessment stage by the Managing Authority of the OPS. The Ministry will prepare regional pre-investment studies for six more districts in which all municipalities have taken decisions in previous years and are members of the Regional Association of Water and Water. Veliko Tarnovo, Haskovo, Gabrovo, Unfortunately, due to Kresna and Sandanski's refusal to become members of the Regional Association, Blagoevgrad is currently not on the list of areas for which regional pre-investment studies will be drawn up and will therefore not be able to benefit from funding from the European funds. I hope that the municipal authorities and the public will reconsider this process so that we do not deprive entire areas of investment which are infinitely necessary for the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Matsurev, will there be a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! Dear Minister, I really thank you for the answer you gave me, but this is obviously not good news for Blagoevgrad region. I also hope that as soon as possible the municipal authorities will consider that their decision will be reached consolidation of the water operator and will be launched, because in this way, if no association is reached, this means that Blagoevgrad district will be deprived of all these funds, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u178	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Madam Secretary? There's nothing to add to your answer. This was the last question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Avramova. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions for Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. The first of them was placed by the National Representative Stefan Burgeev and refers to the preparation for the upcoming celebration of the 150th anniversary of the National Chitalishte of Pleven. Here you are, Mr. Burgeev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u179	Thank you, Mr. Notev. Dear Minister Banov, dear colleagues! My question is as follows: Mr. Minister, the Chitalishte in question, was founded on 1 October of the same year by Master Nestor Markov, only a few months after the organization of a revolutionary committee in the city by Vasil Levski. Of the first five or six currents of newspapers and magazines and 578 volumes of books and inventory, today the library owns a book fund of over 220 000 volumes, a unique old print fund of 1153 books and periodicals. For the Jubilee the Chitalishte Board provides a program with more significant initiatives, exhibitions and festive anniversary concert. Along with the upcoming event of the celebration the Chitalishte needs to repair the roof and build a ramp for disabled people. Regarding the above mentioned and the celebration, which are necessary for the normal functioning of the process, I ask you: what actions is the Ministry able to take to support the Chitalishte financially and to assist in the celebrations around the holiday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u180	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Burgeev, People's Chitalishte "Consent" in Pleven is one of the oldest Chitalishtes in the country. It is emblematic for Pleven and the region. There is also one of the most prestigious concert halls. During the years the building itself has performed different types of renovations, the last more significant are in 2017. A major renovation of the floor cover of the stage, of the rock roof and of the folk dance hall was made. Repair activities have been carried out on the electrical installation and in order to improve sanitary and hygienic conditions. The building is located in the central city of Pleven and helps to shape the overall central urban image. At present, the Ministry of Culture has announced a current session to support projects of Chitalishtes related to support their main activity. In relation to the planned events included in the general programme for marking the 150th anniversary, the Chitalishte in the town of Pleven may apply for this programme. The planned events are activities eligible for funding under the rules of targeted financial support in the field of museum work, fine arts and stage arts, regional cultural activities and events in the field of amateur creativity, literary, literary and intangible cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Burgeev, to give an opinion on the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I cannot fail to note the respect for the place and importance of this community center for Bulgaria and the Pleven region. You have given a poor signal that there are mechanisms acceptable in the instruments offered by the Ministry as a principal. Yet quite in the correct spirit, I appeal once again and more strongly to you in addition to what is possible at the moment, and with more serious attention, and with a more serious commitment to seek other forms of institutional support for presentation, respect of the celebration by you as a minister, of the directorates you are leading, and of empathy to mark the celebration as appropriate to this cultural temple in Pleven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u184	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Minister, will you complete the answer? No. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Diana Savateva on improving the conditions and material base in the schools of art, in particular the National School of Music and Stage Art. Pancho Vladigerov. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is related to the national arts schools that fall under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. I think you have repeatedly said that this is one of the priorities, i.e. the creation of conditions in these talent training schools in the relevant areas. About a month ago on the occasion of Prime Minister Borisov's visit to Kotel, information was published on the renovation, which runs specifically at the school in Kotel, which is the National School of Folk Arts. It is a project within 3 million. $800,000. lv. under the Programme "Regions in growth" which includes both renovation of the base and implementation of the relevant energy measures and expansion of the basis for children's training and building a multifunctional hall at all creating conditions for a completely different type of art. In this plan I would like to point out that the school, which attracts many children in recent years, is the National School of Musical and Performing Art. Pancho Vladigerov. In Burgas. A brief retrospect in the development of the school shows what this is about. Initially it is a secondary music school, then in 2004 it became national, and in recent years there are specialties that are related not only to music but also to performing arts. A few years ago two specialties were opened that corresponded somewhat to the open branch of the Art Academy in Burgas last year. So the school is growing, his alumni are getting more and more, so the question of renovation and expansion of the base comes up. In this plan, my question, Minister, is: what is the position of the Ministry of Culture on the expansion of the basis of the Burgas school and the possibilities for funding, as the school itself has one initial financial resource for this? If you could inform us about the intended means of expanding the material base in other national arts schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, in relation to your question, I inform you the following: Schools and high schools of arts and culture are secondary officers with a budget at the Ministry of Culture. They are independent legal entities of budget support in the system of culture and office. Every year they carry out ongoing and supportive renovation activities in the building fund they manage within their budgets. Directors of secondary authorising officers with a budget to the Minister of Culture shall be entitled, where the expenditure requested cannot be provided by the budgets of the cultural institutes concerned, to apply for funding of the requested activities. By letter of 7 February 2019 a request was submitted to the Ministry of Culture to provide funds for the extension of the study corps of the National School of Music and Performing Arts. Pancho Vladigerov is presented in Burgas and an architectural project and a quantitative-value account of nearly 500 thousand. lv. without VAT. No additional documents on the school's readiness to conduct procedures for the selection of a contractor under the Public Procurement Act are attached to the application. By letter dated 14 February 2019, the Ministry of Culture requested the Director of the National School of Music and Performing Art to further provide a plan for the implementation of the activities with the corresponding amounts for each year, in line with the need to prepare an investment project for all parts under the Law on Construction in the Area, the approval of projects, the issuance of a permit for construction and the implementation of construction works. By letter of 18 April 2019 the Director of the School informed the Ministry of the planned stages of the implementation of the Project The Ministry of Culture will provide funds in connection with the expansion of the National School of Musical and Performing Art. Pancho Vladigerov As far as investment in other schools is concerned, we provide funds annually, including an application under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" so that at the moment the last year is over, a year and a half have ended. Currently, big projects are being implemented: at the National School of Folklore Arts in Sliven; at the National School of Arts in Kotel, as you said, a big project; we are helping at the National School of Arts in Plovdiv; at the National School of Arts in Varna, we have completed a major renovation; in the National School of Culture with a person learning Italian language and culture and in the National School of Applied Arts in Varna. We strive to help wherever necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sawateva, will you take an attitude? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! You pointed out 6 national arts schools where procedures are currently underway, certain repairs are underway or everything has already been completed on them. I hope from what I've heard from you that next year's National School of Music and Performing Art will be included in this list. Pancho Vladigerov. Yes, you have absolutely correctly reflected that there are currently technical problems with the Project, that is, the request for such extension has already been made, you have received the relevant documents. In the meantime, technical problems have emerged, which are currently being resolved.................................................................................................... In the end, in my opinion, the school will be able to submit the necessary documentation kit as soon as possible so that it can receive this funding. Personally, I liked the expression "I will provide" and I hope this will happen because the need is strong and you did not deny it. It is about a developing school which has an extremely large role in the entire cultural life of Burgas. The two newest majors: a staged costume and an advertising poster complement the overall vision of the school and enable children with artistic talents to study at this national school and the intended base for the expansion, namely for workshops for young artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Secretary? You're not gonna get any attitude. We move on to the next issue from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev concerning measures for the conservation and development of an antique complex located in the village of Gurlo, the municipality of Breznik, Pernik district, which includes Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the House! Dear Minister, once again I ask the question related to the archaeological site, which is referred to as the "Chram" of Kula, located 3 km north of the center of the village of Gurlo, the municipality of Breznik, on the northeastern slope of the mountain hill of Kula. I have repeatedly introduced you to his condition and to the need to preserve this unique monument for our country. In response to my previous three questions, I stress three questions to you concerning the site, you have stated that the money has already been allocated, but the municipality of Breznik has not mastered them and you have personally committed yourself to helping preserve the site. So far, there has been a construction of a road to the site which, however, in its municipal part, is still in construction unknown to what extent. Once again, I alert you that the condition of the object is desperate, and the entire terrain is full of treasured digs. I urge you to do everything possible to preserve this archaeological site. Minister, in this regard, my question to you is: What measures will you take in 2019 so that in 2019 the site can finally be protected and accessible to all those who wish to visit it one of its main problems? What funds have been allocated to design projects and to build a leading infrastructure to the site? At what stage is their possible execution and construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u192	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you are, dear Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Bonev! In answer to your question, I will inform you of the following: In 2012 the Ministry of Culture financed the development of an update of a project for a protective building and a project for conservation and restoration with technologies and exposition for an object megalite "Chram". near the village of Gurlo, Breznik municipality, worth 6300 BGN. In 2014 was concluded a contract between the Ministry of Culture and the Municipality of Breznik for building a protective building and conservation of the megalithic Due to the inability to comply with the activities provided for in the contract following a destroyed infrastructure, I stress: destroyed infrastructure, the Municipality of Breznik has recovered from the accounts of the Ministry the advance provided under a contract. In response to three of your previous questions, the Ministry of Culture has provided the necessary information concerning the designated site in 2017, 2018 and 2019. In response to your question from February this year, I have also indicated the deadline for applying in 2019. From February 20th to March 20th. At present, the Ministry of Culture has not been requested by the Municipality of Breznik for targeted financial support for the quoted site. I can't give money to someone who doesn't want it, so someone has to ask for that money. For the realization of activities for conservation and development of an antique complex located in the land of the village of Gurlo, the Municipality of Breznik can apply again for relaxation, but already in 2020 under the Programme "Conservation of property cultural heritage" under the terms and conditions of the rules for the selection of sites, defining activities for providing targeted financial support in the field of conservation, restoration of movable cultural values. For this purpose, a request for financial support must still be submitted for the established new rules of the Ministry, which are published on the website of the Ministry of Culture. As far as infrastructure is concerned, the bringing infrastructure is not an object and cannot be financed by the Ministry of Culture. I understand the problem! I've always been on your side, we've talked outside the microphones. However, these people must submit a request to enable them to implement the Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There'll probably be an attitude. Come on in, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable MPs! Mr. Minister, this is my third question to you about this unique monument at 3,000 years old. There were two worldwide registered in the village of Gurlo, Breznishko and Sardinia. It is not even national, it is now an international monument of global importance. For 2018 and 2019 in the territory of Pernik region there is no lev allocated by the Ministry of Culture to restore any monuments. I understand that the municipalities of the territory don't want it. I understand you! But in the end, as a minister, you must do everything possible to preserve it and restore it in any way possible. To refer me to the mayor of Breznik, apparently the capacity of both the administration and the mayor, and the desire to preserve himself, at the end of the day, at his request. You can initiate it so that, at the very least, as they say, it happens in the area. I understand you! I'm not blaming you directly. I see! But you have to do everything you can, everything you can to build the road, to get through the Forest Fund, to give the mayor money so that things can happen. On Saturday I was at the monument there were over 30 people. After all, you must make every effort and, above all, make a whole new strategy to preserve our cultural heritage so that such cases do not occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u196	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, come in, you have the opportunity to add the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bonev...! [[Shut up.]] Just...! I don't know! I see you're in pain. You don't make it formal, you don't just do it to ask questions. It hurts me too! I can't give money for anything as much as I want, if there's no one to ask for it, to do it so the region can live for it, so people can come to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u198	Find another form. Get the mayor to come...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u199	What other form? [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Bonev.]] Coffee?! [[Laughs]] I'm most willing to resolve the matter, I'm willing to finance it, and not now, you know the last time you asked me. However, someone who lives there, who works, who cares, must also have concern! [[Reply from MP Lyubomir Bonev.]] Let him post a ticket! You're right! [[Radio.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And thank Mr. Bonev for the question. I think this conversation is starting to work. Maybe you can use it. That was the last question for you, Minister. The next question is to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. He will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova. Mr. Gyokov, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u201	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is important and up-to-date for people who use this service because, at the moment, from help in a home environment other than people with disabilities who have TelK solutions, help is also receiving people who can't handle themselves without help, but at the same time for a number of reasons, there is no record of them with foreign assistance in TelK's decision. This is done by providing the service a social assistant in accordance with the requirements and minimum quality standards of this service, as defined in the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. Our question with the colleague Klisurska because many people have also addressed it in the reception room is not aimed at the quality of the provision of this service in practice, it is not aimed at tracking its effectiveness, nor at regulating and improving its effectiveness, but at the availability and the possibility of using it after 31 August 2019. Once again, the question is important given the deadline, because according to § 4, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Personal Aid Act: the granting and financing of personal aid under this Law will be implemented from 1 September 2019. Personal assistance itself shall be provided on the basis of an individual assessment of the needs issued by a direction under Chapter 3 of the Disabled Persons Act. At the moment, the Social Assistance Department has no instructions and does not accept applications for individual assessment of the needs of disabled people if the decisions of TELK are not recorded with foreign assistance. At the same time, the municipalities were provided with funding for the service in the community by the end of August only. This raises a serious question: Mr. Minister, will you leave without support for the exercise of their fundamental rights and their full participation in the society of disabled people, which has led to limiting their ability to self-service in everyday life and to their dependence on foreign aid to compensate for the functional deficit, but do not have a solution by TelK with foreign help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u202	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, as you pointed out in your question, the granting and financing of personal assistance under the Personal Aid Act will take place from 1 September 2019. According to § 4, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law, the people with permanent disabilities continue to use the social services of a Personal Assistant, a Social Assistant and a House Assistant in the current order until personal assistance is provided. This ensures the continuity of those services to people with disabilities. At present, according to art. 19 of Decree of the Council of Ministers No 344 of 21 December 2018 on the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, the funds for the provision of these social services for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 August 2019 shall be provided to municipalities through the Social Assistance Agency. Within the framework of the provided funding, social services are provided to two target groups. These are persons with disabilities and, the second, persons over 65 years of age who are unable to self-service, who have been assessed under the rules of operation. In this context, the Social Assistance Agency has concluded bilateral agreements with 293 municipalities, respectively municipalities, for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 August 2019. In order to prevent the risk of interruption of the provision of services in the home environment and of the related social tensions after 1 September 2019, amongst some of the most vulnerable groups in society that do not fall within the scope of the "Personal assistance" mechanism, according to § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Personal Aid Act, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy proposed an extension of the period for the provision of financing of the services. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is in the process of an active dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, given the provision of the necessary budget funds for financing both of the mechanism "Personal assistance" and of the services provided to consumers. At the same time, in order to support people in the home environment in the inability of self-service and disabled people, in December last year, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme. "Human Resources Development" announced an operation "Patronage care for elderly people and persons with disabilities" - Component 2 - which provides for the provision of integrated services that combine complex actions in the direction of providing long-term care, including social and health services in the community or in a home environment. The aim of the operation is to build a model for patronizing care for elderly people and people with disabilities, including chronic diseases and with permanent disabilities, with a view to providing part-time mobile and integrated health-social services in their homes. This will compensate for the need for short - term care for people who are unable to provide self - service for whom there is no one to care for. The real patronage care will be provided through municipalities. The total budget of the operation is 45 million. $700,000. lv. Some 17 000 persons over the age of 18 are expected to be covered in the Patronage Care Department, including persons with disabilities. Integration services will be provided not less than 12 months, and every person in need will be able to receive health-social services within 2 hours a day. As of June 20th, the project proposals of 122 municipalities were approved, and 76 of them were signed contracts for providing patronage care. From what has been said, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has taken the necessary steps to ensure adequate support for both disabled people and persons in the inability of self-service in order to ensure the exercise of their rights according to individual needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u205	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I would like to start by saying that long-term care and other social services for elderly people in Bulgaria should be provided by two separate systems from the social assistance system and the health care system. Even with the adoption of the two laws of social services and personal assistance, I am not convinced that these people receive adequate services and care. Like me, the majority of Bulgarians think and 100% of those who use the services, but this is a very long and difficult debate and is not the subject of this issue. Now I have no way of saying whether I am satisfied or dissatisfied with the answer, although I have listened to you carefully and heard that you are offering some solutions, but I would nevertheless like to give you a private case which is summarised by the dozens of visits to my reception as a Member of the National Assembly and also my colleague with whom we are asking the question. Retired about 95 years of age and over, certified by telk at an earlier age, for example 70 years old, 95% or less, but without any help because of hypertension, diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and other concomitant diseases, as he is retired, the decision has become permanent. Over time, diseases are deepened, and others are added to them, such as severe dementia. For four or five years he's been bedridden and it's absolutely impossible to do it without any help. For explainable reasons, the patient cannot go to re-certification in order to receive foreign assistance, and there are no relatives who care for him, or at least not as close to him, and even if he does, they must leave work to serve him, which leads to other consequences, so they rely on the help of the service, a Social Assistant who is provided by the municipality. However, the contracts expire at the end of August and from 1 September the funding will be in a new way. Nervous relatives ask questions in the municipality. They don't have an answer from there, they only know that the funding is secured by the end of August. They also ask questions at the Social Assistance Department: what do we do after August 31st, because the patient cannot be left without service? The answer is that they do not have instructions and are currently dealing only with the cases described in the Personal Aid Act, that is, only those who have a record in their decision by TelK with foreign help. These people at the Social Assistance Department do not blame them because they are also slightly unaware. Mr. Minister, from private to general: what would you advise these people who are close to the people who cannot do without help, but who are not certified for this? Do you have any idea how many of these people are? Will you calm them down, Mr. Minister, that they have nothing to worry about? Also to appease social workers and social workers, including social assistants who suffer the negative of unknownness: will you also give them peace of mind? Let me remind you that at the end of last year, such tensions were also created because of the provided funding, but it was delayed in time anyway and remained about a month, a month and a half without the provision of this service. We need to calm these people down somehow. I know that now you're fighting with the Ministry of Finance to secure funding, but let's do it this time a little faster to make these people a little more relaxed because it's not good to be missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u206	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to complete the answer and actually answer the additional questions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would like to start by saying that, after the contracts for operation have expired, a life-saving operation under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and this has been implemented in 2017 - 2018, the sustainability of the social services has been ensured by the social services "Personal assistant," "Social assistant" and "House assistant" through their use of the budget. For this purpose, 71 million have been allocated to the Ministry's budget for 2019. Five hundred thousand. lv. And that kind of service gets about 25,000 people. I have already explained in my reply that there are not only disabled people, in particular people with the right to foreign help, but also elderly people without TELM-decisions, who are in no way capable of self-service. Perhaps the case that you have pointed out falls within this group. Our aim is to ensure continuity of all persons who are now using the service. The dates 1 September and 31 August were taken into account that, with the Personal Aid Act of 1 September, the granting and financing of personal aid, which is essentially also assistant support, an assistant service, began. You know that in the adoption of this law at the end of last year, the late December, it was decided and agreed that the first two years of 2019 " 2020" entitled under this law to be a more limited range of users, i.e. adults with over 90% appearance and degree of disability and right to foreign assistance, and children with over 90% type and degree of disability. In this way, the circle of users of private aid for the first two years of application was limited. In order to ensure that the service is provided to all others who are currently using it, the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are to change accordingly the budget implementation decree for this year and to ensure that all these cases are financed by the end of this year. And in the Social Services Act, also a new law that you passed in March this year, assistant support is one of the ten social services that is recorded, so we are working towards its sustainable implementation. Since you have called me several times to reassure people, I do, we work, and I think I have entered the specific enough to secure the rights of all people who need such support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-21.u208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I hope that this dialogue will have purely practical dimensions and benefits. And thank you to Mr. Gokov. Dear Members of Parliament, this has exhausted the issues of today's parliamentary control, as well as the weekly Parliamentary Work Programme. The next regular Parliament meeting will take place on 26 June 2019. Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
