ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft decision for the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. I propose that it be included as point four for today's plenary session, 25 July 2019, with the remaining points being renumbered accordingly. Please, voting mode. Vote 191 MPs: for 179, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, one communication: The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness with an importer The Council of Ministers is allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Please come in for a procedure, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! In relation to the extremely critical situation with the spread of African swine fever, I shall make the procedural proposal under art. 113 of the Rules should be heard by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, who is the head of the National Epizootic Headquarters for the spread of plague, and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests with information not only about the measures being taken, but also how policy on the management of this critical situation is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u3	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. We'll inform the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. We're moving on to the first item on the agenda...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u4	This is a proposal for an item on the agenda! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u5	We'll put it to the vote, but let me talk to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister, and I'll tell you when it's possible to include the point. THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Who's gonna introduce us to the Second Reading Report? Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u6	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, first of all, a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Staff Regulations of Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Maria Kaleva, Head of Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u7	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 175 MPs: 162 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u8	Thank you. The Law on Railway Transport is amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 174 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 46. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 1 to 5 including those supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u12	They voted 154 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 49. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u13	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u14	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 153 MPs: 104, none, abstention 49. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u15	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... In the Civil Aviation Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16b, para. 1, t. 7 the words "the dedicated unit" shall be replaced by the "National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is repealed; (b) in para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Railways: (c) paragraph 3 is repealed; (d) in para. 4 words The specialized unit under para. 1s and 1s are replaced by the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport. (e) in para. 5 words with the specialized unit under para. The National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport shall be replaced by the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1, t. 4 the words "the dedicated unit" shall be replaced by the "National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 142 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 2 the words "Commission', designated by order of the Head of the Air, Water and Rail Transport Accident Investigation Unit of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "Inspectors" of the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport. (b) paragraph 3 is repealed; (c) in para. 5 the words "the unit responsible for investigating accidents in air, water and rail transport in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications' shall be replaced by the managing authority of the National Board for the investigation of accidents in air, water and rail transport. 5. In § 3, t. 67 of the additional provisions, the words "the specialized unit of art. 16g, para. The National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport is replaced by the National Board for the Investigation of Accidents in Air, Water and Rail Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u16	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6. Vote 156 MPs: 115, none, abstention 41. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u17	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, i.e. 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 5 words................................................................................................ The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in respect of the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3].
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u18	Thank you. Statements? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 31. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u19	The Commission proposes to reject § 8 as it is reflected in its systematic position as § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u20	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer. They voted 139 MPs: 106, none, abstention 33. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u21	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 8, as in para. 1 the word "self-removement" is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u22	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8, with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 106, none, abstention 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u23	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u24	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 9. Vote 138 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 36. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u25	Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Rosen Zhivkov, Pavel Hristov and Claudia Gancheva in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ....10.......................................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u26	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with a text according to the Commission report. They voted 137 MPs: 100, none, abstention 37. The proposal is accepted, and we also accept the Law. Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u27	Honourable Members, we move to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. The law is assigned to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I propose an admission to the Hall of Yavor Serafimov, Head of the Sector of Money Laundering at the General Directorate of Organized Crime and Organized Crime, Svetoslav Belemezov, Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, by the Ministry of Interior: Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Nikolay Nenkov, Deputy Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Georgi Popivanov, Director of the Specialized Administrative Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, Tsvetelina Stoyanova, Specialized Administrative Directorate of Finance Intelligence, Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Tsvetankanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of Finance, and Rositsa Petkova Expert in the Directorate of Financial Markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u29	A very serious presence. I hope we can find a place for them in the gym. I'd like you to call a vote for admission to the Chamber. They voted 102 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 7. Please invite the guests. You may proceed, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u30	♪ I can't believe on a bill on measures against money laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. At its regular meeting on 18 July 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a bill on measures against money laundering, No 902 01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. The meeting was attended by the State Agency "National Security" (National Security Agency) and Tanya Karakash (Director of the Ministry of Interior: Chief Inspector Yavor Serafimov) Head of the Sector "Execution of Money" (Director of the General Directorate of Organized Crime) and by the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova (Deputy Minister), and Tsvetanka Mihailova (Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets). On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova. In her statement, she pointed out that the adoption of a new Law on measures against money laundering and amendments and additions to other relevant regulations was consistent with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council, with the weaknesses of the current legislation being removed. The new Law on Measures against Money Laundering was published in issue 27 of the Official Journal of the European Union on 27 March 2018. At the same time, Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849, which contains new requirements to be introduced in Bulgarian legislation. The lack of national legal rules introducing the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/843 would result in incomplete compliance of Bulgarian legislation with European Union legislation in this area and in reducing prevention and countering money laundering and terrorist financing and would negatively affect the process of accession to the Currency Mechanism II (ERM II) and the Banking Union. The bill provides for the following major amendments: - in art. 4 new categories of debtors who store, trade or act as intermediaries in the trade in works of art, where they are carried out in free zones and where the value of the transaction and related transactions amounts to or exceeds EUR 10 000 or their equivalent in another currency; persons who provide services for the exchange of virtual and recognised currencies without gold coverage, as well as portfolio providers offering custody services; - the Bill introduces a ban on disclosure or maintenance of anonymous bank accounts, safes or bank safes on a fictitious name; - the introduction of lower thresholds for the implementation of the measures for complex verification by e-money issuers and their representatives is envisaged; - a new article will be created. 36a, concerning the establishment of a list of positions occupied by prominent political figures and notification to the European Commission of the same. State and local authorities, as well as the institutions and departments in which such positions are held, are intended to provide information to the DANS Financial Intelligence Directorate for listing and providing it to the Commission; - to identify the client and verify the identification data to be carried out by means of electronic identification means; - the requirement of the Directive is introduced to lay down an explicit obligation for real owners to provide all the information necessary to fulfil their obligations to register their actual owners; - the requirement of the Directive on the availability of wider opportunities for the international exchange of information by national competent authorities is transposed through the envisaged amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems; - the envisaged amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act extend the data, entry in the maintained register of bank accounts and safes according to the requirements of the Directive; - a requirement is introduced in the BULSTAT Registry Act for ensuring the interoperability of registers containing data on the actual owners of legal persons and other legal educations. Money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime are often carried out internationally and are a problem not only at national level but also at EU and international level. Flows of money of unlawful origin may harm the stability and reputation of the financial sector, endanger national security and the internal market of the Union and international development. Dynamically developing public relations, terrorist attacks in recent years in Europe have shown an even stronger need to update international standards and seek greater efficiency in their implementation. The law implementing the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering should reduce the risk that financial institutions in the country will be used to conceal and integrate funds of uncertain origin, to reduce the level of crimes generating a financial result, including corruption, to increase trust in institutions, to increase the level of interaction between national institutions and their international partners in the Member States of the European Union. A discussion was held with expressed readiness for this organization. The Bill also sets out rules in other relevant regulations. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov and Krasimir Tsipov took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on measures against money laundering.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Following is a Report of the Commission on the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Mr. Lazarov, please introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u32	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. It was attended by Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of DANS Directorate, Mr. Georgi Popivanov, Director of DANS Directorate, Ms. Rayna Yaneva, Head of Department at SANS; Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of Financial Market Regulation at the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Rositsa Petkova, Expert, and Mrs. Kaloyan Simeonov, State Expert. The draft was presented by Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, who stressed that the proposed changes aim to introduce the requirements of the so-called Fifth Directive, namely Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing and amending Directives 2009/138/EU and 2013/36/EU. Ms. Mihailova presented the main points in the Draft: expanding the categories of debtors; introducing a ban on revealing or maintaining anonymous bank safes or bank safes on a fictitious name; creating a list of positions occupied by prominent political figures and others. It was stressed that by adopting the proposed legislative amendments and additions, it aims to increase the final effectiveness of the national system for prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as to assist our country in fulfilling commitments regarding our intention to join the Monetary Mechanism of the European Union and in this regard Decision No 611 of the Council of Ministers of 2018 approving an Action Plan including measures for the implementation of the Republic of Bulgaria's intentions to join the Monetary Mechanism II (ERM II) and the Banking Union. In addition, greater clarity will be achieved with regard to debtors. On behalf of the SANS, Mr. Georgi Popivanov took the position, who expressed support for the proposed legislative changes and stated readiness to discuss the issues arising within the interdepartmental working group. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 6 votes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Following is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies to combat the grey economy and smuggling. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. At its regular meeting on 11 July 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 902 01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister, and Chief Inspector Yavor Serafimov Head of the Money Laundering Sector at the Directorate General for Organized Crime and by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister and Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Directorate of Financial Markets and by the State Agency of National Security and Mr. Dimitar Georgiev Chairman, Mr. Georgi Stoynev, Mrs. Tanya Karakash and Mr. Georgi Popivanov. The bill was presented by Mr. Tzipov, Mrs. Petrova and Mr. Georgiev, who stressed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on measures against money laundering aims to introduce requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing or the so-called Fifth Directive on measures against money laundering. The draft was drawn up by the Interdepartmental Working Group with the participation of the State Agency of National Security, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Registry Agency, the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Revenue Agency, the Customs Agency, the State Gambling Commission, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Anti-Corruption Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The draft law is in response to the commitments the Bulgarian State has made to the European partners, as well as to the implementation of the Action Plan on the intentions of the Republic of Bulgaria to join the Currency Mechanism II and to the Banking Union approved by the Council of Ministers. The bill provides in art. 4 include new categories of debtors who store, trade or act as intermediaries in the trading of works of art where they are carried out in free zones and where the value of the transaction or related transactions exceeds or exceeds EUR 10 000 or their equivalent in another currency; persons who trade or act as intermediaries in the trading of works of art, including where they are carried out by art galleries and auction houses, where the value of the transaction or related transactions is equal to or exceeds EUR 10 000 or their equivalent in another currency; persons who provide services for exchange between virtual currencies and recognised currencies without gold cover; portfolio providers offering custody services. In accordance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/843 it is envisaged that persons who provide services for exchange between virtual currencies and recognised currencies without gold coverage, as well as portfolio providers offering custody services, are entered in a public register of the National Revenue Agency for the purposes of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing under conditions and in order to be regulated in a regulation of the Minister of Finance. The draft law introduces a ban on disclosure or maintenance of anonymous bank safes or bank safes under a fictitious name. The amendment to Art. 1. 24 is intended to accurately transpose and achieve full compliance with the provisions of art. 12 of Directive (EU) 2015/849, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/843, on exceptions to the application of customer due diligence measures to electronic money, including the introduction of new lower thresholds of the maximum monthly payment limit, as well as of the maximum electronically stored amount of electronic money, from EUR 250 to EUR 150 or their equivalent in another currency, as well as supplementing the cases and conditions under which the exemptions provided are not applicable. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 36a, regulating the establishment of a list of positions held by political persons and notifying the European Commission of its content. To this end, it is envisaged that the state and local authorities, as well as the institutions and departments in which such positions are held, should provide the necessary information for their inclusion in the list in the framework of the Draft Law. A similar obligation shall also be introduced in respect of international organisations having its registered office in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where positions falling within the scope of art. 36, para. 2 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. More specific measures for extended complex verification in respect of persons from countries who do not apply or do not fully apply international standards in countering money laundering and terrorist financing are envisaged to amend and supplement art. 46 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, as well as the creation of art. 46a. By amendments to art. 63 The requirement of Directive (EU) 2018/843 is introduced for the formulation of an explicit obligation for the actual owners of natural persons, to provide legal persons and other legal entities established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and for the contact of natural persons with all the information necessary to fulfil their obligations to declare entry. The introduction of such an obligation is aimed at creating additional guarantees on the ability of legal persons and other legal entities to fulfil their obligations to apply for entry in the cases of information on their actual owners provided for in the Law on Money Laundering Measures. The new requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/843 for the scope of data that national competent authorities should maintain for the purpose of national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing shall be transposed by creating new points in para. 2 of art. 71 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The requirement to have wider opportunities for international exchange of information by national competent authorities is transposed by changes to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. The envisaged amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act extend the data entered in the maintained bank account and safes register. By creating art. 35a The BULSTAT Registry Act introduces a requirement to ensure the interoperability of registers containing data on the actual owners of legal persons and other legal entities. The implementation of the Bulgarian legislation in line with the recent amendments to European Union legislation through the adoption of the above-mentioned legislative amendments and additions aims to increase the final effectiveness of the national system for prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as to assist our country in fulfilling commitments regarding our intentions to join the European Union Currency Mechanism and the decision adopted in this regard by the Council of Ministers No 611 of 2018 approving the Action Plan, including measures for the implementation of the Republic of Bulgaria's intentions to join the Monetary Mechanism II and the Banking Union. From increasing the ultimate effectiveness in applying preventive legislation against money laundering and terrorist financing, not only public authorities and institutions but also private sector representatives should be positively influenced. In view of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/843, some of the measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering include complex customer checks, collection and preparation of documents and other information and their storage, risk assessment of money laundering, disclosure of information on suspicious transactions, transactions and clients, disclosure of other information for the purposes of the Law, control of the activity of debtors and exchange of information shall be further developed. The Bill also lists mechanisms for providing certain categories of information to the European Commission, as well as mechanisms for collecting and generalising it at national level. During the debates took part the MPs: Ms. Dora Hristova, Mr. Christian Mitev and Mr. Emil Dimitrov. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for the vote, without.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Stoinev, are you presenting the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. At its regular meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of Financial Markets and Ms. Rositsa Petkova and Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov, experts in the same Directorate. Mr. Nikolay Nenkov, Vice-President, Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of the Specialized Administrative Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, Mr. Georgi Popivanov, Director of the Specialized Administrative Directorate of Financial Intelligence and Mrs. Rayna Yaneva, Head of the Department of the same Directorate. Chief Inspector Yavor Serafimov took part from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The main objective set by the Bill is to bring the Law on Measures against Money Laundering into line with the requirements of European legislation. It is precisely the lack of national legal rules to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/843 that would result in incomplete compliance of Bulgarian legislation with European Union legislation in this area and in reducing prevention and countering money laundering and terrorist financing, which would negatively affect the process of accession to the Currency Mechanism II (ERM II) and to the Banking Union. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering provides for the following changes: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 of the current Law on Measures against Money Laundering will include new categories of debtors who store, trade or act as intermediaries in the trade in works of art where this is done in free zones and where the value of the transaction or related transactions amounts to or exceeds EUR 10 000; persons who trade or act as intermediaries in the trade in works of art, including where this is done by art galleries and auction houses, where the value of the transaction or related transactions amounts to or exceeds EUR 10 000; persons who, by occupation, provide services for the exchange of virtual currencies and recognised currencies without gold cover; portfolio providers offering custody services. The Bill also introduces a ban on disclosure or maintenance of anonymous bank safes or bank safes under a fictitious name. Importers shall indicate that in order to accurately transpose and achieve full compliance with the provisions of art. 12 of Directive EU 2015/849, as amended by Directive EU 2018/843, on exceptions to the application of customer due diligence measures to electronic money, provision is made for an amendment to art. 24 of the current Law on measures against money laundering, including the introduction of the new lower thresholds of the maximum monthly limit of payments with a payment instrument, as well as of the maximum electronically stored amount of electronic money from 250 euros to 150 euros. The creation of a new article is also envisaged. H6a, concerning the establishment of a list of positions held by prominent political figures and the notification to the European Commission of the same, providing for an obligation for state and local authorities, as well as for the institutions and offices in which such positions are held, to provide within the prescribed time frame in the Draft of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence of SANS the necessary information for their inclusion in the list. The Bill also sets out more specific measures for an extended complex check with regard to persons from countries who do not apply international standards in countering money laundering and terrorist financing, providing for an amendment and addition to art. 46 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, as well as the creation of art. 46a. The additions to Articles 53 and 54 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering concerning the explicit signature of the possibility of the identification of the client and the verification of the identification data being carried out also by means of electronic identification means, relevant certification services provided for in Regulation (EU) By way of amendments to art. 63 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering establishes the requirement of Directive EU 2018/843 for the formulation of an explicit obligation for the actual owners of natural persons, to provide legal persons and other legal entities established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the natural persons for contact with all the information that is necessary to fulfil their obligations to declare entry. New points are being created in para. 2 of art. 71 of the Law on measures against money laundering which transpose the new requirements of Directive EU 2018/843 on the scope of data that national competent authorities should maintain for the purpose of national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. Another requirement of Directive EU 2018/843 is that there are wider opportunities for the international exchange of information by national competent authorities by transposing it by providing for relevant changes to the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. The requirements of Directive EU 2018/843 provide for amendments and additions to the Credit Institutions Act by extending the data recorded with the maintained bank account and safes register. For the transposition of the explicit requirement of Directive EU 2018/843 by establishing art. 35a The BULSTAT Registry Act introduces a requirement to ensure the compatibility of registers containing data on the actual owners of legal persons and other legal entities. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes against the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on measures against money laundering, No 902-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. A report has not been submitted by the Budget and Finance Committee. Should I ask the importer if he wishes to take the floor? I can't see. Switching to discussion of the Bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! As we know, the fight against money laundering is one of the most serious challenges, one of the most serious parts in general in the fight against organised crime. I will try to give you a legal concept of money laundering from a decision of the ICC since 2018, where it is said that: The money laundering is a criminal activity for the legalization of funds and property acquired in a criminal way which is intended and leading to frustration or at least to the difficulty of the authorities to establish the illegal origin of the criminally acquired, without doubt that this is a secondary criminal activity, always preceded by another which has led to the criminal origin of the funds. What are we looking at today? We are looking at a proposal to amend the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, the so-called Fifth Directive, where new sanctions are envisaged and an extension of the circle of persons falling within the scope of the Law. Of course, fines will be imposed up to 10 million. lv. to companies, banks and credit institutions if they do not report suspicious transactions to the SANS, as an important condition it is to say that these measures are a requirement and are part of Bulgaria's commitment to meeting the criteria for membership in the Eurozone for which we are all fighting. According to this law, any questionable transaction must be reported to the SANS, which will have the right to refuse registration of companies suspected of financing terrorism, that their money is from money laundering, and to refuse registration of companies coming from offshore areas. The penalties that may be imposed shall be both property and non-material. The property, for example, in the first offense, starts at BGN 1000. And it's up to $10 million. lv. The Commission notes that, in the absence of any comments on the compatibility of the measures with the internal market, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In this regard, honourable Members, I would like to say that still, notaries, banks, financial intermediaries, employees have been obliged to report to the SANS in suspicious transactions. In the current proposal to amend the Law, we see some expansion of the powers of the verifiers and the transfer of one category to another. Of course, I made a remark in the Commission that there is a danger of getting into the situation that representatives of the lawyer's guild protested that they wanted to be snitches against their clients. It's the same situation as it is right now. I'm afraid it could also occur with the accountants. The main thing here is, and which we have discussed with the specialists in this topic, is that the main problem is in the gap, in the application of the Law. For example, I will give a finding that was made in the report on the activities of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances in relation to the privatisation and planned sale of the companies of CEZ Group Bulgaria, which was in parliament, where it is said that the response received by the SANS during the verification of these circumstances has identified significant deficiencies in the implementation of the Law. This is the main thing that worries us as a parliamentary group that a Law is adopted, really important, but there is largely a risk that it will not be applied adequately. That is, all those measures that are being proposed, which are being strengthened as sanctions, will not result in the necessary effect. The same finding is found in a recommendation of the Council of Europe on Bulgaria's National Reform Programme for 2019, which contains an opinion of the Council on Bulgaria's Convergence Programme for 2019, which, of course, notes that Bulgaria has adopted the relevant legislative amendments in 2018 and is working towards the full transposition of Directive 2015/849, the so-called Fourth Directive. Attention should be paid to the effective implementation of all these measures, noting that the authorities have not yet completed, have not notified the national risk assessment, which is a cornerstone in the development of a report on national policies in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. It is also noted that the risk of corruption needs to be addressed more seriously, as it represents a premeditated crime for money laundering. The Bulgarian authorities will have to show concrete, final results, demonstrated by the final decision on high-level corruption cases. In general, our concerns are that the legislative amendments applied are not going in the right direction. We hope between first and second readings something that has been commented and during the Internal Commission will be made the necessary changes to come in this direction, even more so that we have received opinions from the Association of non-profit associations, which also say that there are some weaknesses in the Law. It is for this reason that we will abstain as a parliamentary group in support of this law. We will closely monitor what proposals there are and accordingly we will make our own between first and second readings so that the Law becomes as effective as possible and that the relevant authorities and institutions are as effective in working against money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see either. Do the importers want to share something with the MPs? I don't see any desire from them either. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019. They voted 110 MPs: 78, none, abstention 32. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to next point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u40	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u41	Go ahead, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a procedural proposal according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be extended by 14 days for further written proposals under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A reverse opinion? I can't see. Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 106 MPs: 96, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. That's where we end up at this point. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS. There is a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, to present him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, before I read the Report, I propose that the Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports Nikolay Pavlov be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u45	Please vote on the proposal for admission in this House. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 24 April 2019 the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 24 April 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 954-01-27, submitted by Stefan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 19 April 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Stoyan Andonov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, and Mrs. Antoaneta Boeva, Director of Sports for excellence. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Mr. Stefan Apostolov, who pointed out that the proposed changes aim to remove certain findings concerning the licensing regime of sports federations, the award of athletes who achieved high sports results and the right of the children of deceased Olympic medalists to receive monthly monetary assistance from the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The importer made the clarification that none of the proposed texts introduced a radically new set-up in the Law. The Appendix to art. 22 is required, since in some international sports organisations the right to organise sports activities in the relevant sport is not directly related to the membership of the national sports organisation. The text regulates cases where, in the event of competition of more than one or one candidate for a specific type of sport, an advantage is conferred on the applicant who is a member of the international sports organisation or has obtained rights to organise the relevant sports activities. The purpose of the Appendix in art. 24 is required because in some international sports organisations the right to organise sports activities in the relevant sport is not directly related to the membership of the national sports organisation. The purpose of the Appendix in art. 24 is to cover all the hypotheses in which the sports rights of the national organisation have been revoked. With the amendment in art. 134 expands the circle of athletes who receive awards for high sports results. This is necessary as a subpoenaed ranking, even when the athlete has not won a medal, represents significant success for Bulgarian athletes. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 135 there is incomplete and non-compliance with Art. 135. 134 of the Law, which the present proposal aims to remove by supplementing the coaches and officials referred to in art. 134. According to art. 137 only the children of the deceased Olympic medalists who have acquired the right to a lifelong monthly premium under the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which entered into force after 18 January 2019, are entitled to monthly monetary assistance in the amount received by the deceased medalist. With the proposed text in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, the rights of the children of the deceased Olympic medalists will be equalized to receive monthly monetary assistance, regardless of the legal framework applicable at the time, under which their parents have acquired the right to a lifelong monthly premium. The Ministry of Youth and Sport in the face of Deputy Minister Stoyan Andonov expressed his full support for the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Physical Education and Sports. He clarified that they did not create material new situations in the Law, but refined its provisions, removed the findings of incompleteness and would be useful in practical work with sports organizations. In the course of the discussion, the floor was given to representatives of the Sports Federation of Road Sports, who expressed their objection to the changes in art. 22 and 24 of the Law. The Members of the National Assembly drew attention to their objection and expressed their willingness to consider their proposals for amendment and supplement in the event that such proposals are presented between the first and second reading of the Bill. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 8-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 954-01-27, submitted by Stefan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 19 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u47	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. There has not been a report from the Budget and Finance Committee, which has also been allocated the Bill, so we are moving on to discussion. Come in for an importer's opinion, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to brief you on the reasons for the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The bill aims to remove gaps or imperfections with the current law, which entered into force on 18 January 2019 in several aspects: the regime for the withdrawal of a license of sports federations, the award of athletes who achieved high sports results and the right of the children of the deceased Olympic medalists from the Olympic and Paralympic Games to receive monthly monetary assistance from the Ministry of Youth and Sport under the conditions laid down in art. 137 of the Law. I would like to make it clear from the outset that none of the proposed texts introduces a radically new set-up in the Law, they complement only the legislative proposals already adopted. Paragraphs 1 and 2 relate to cases of withdrawal of sports rights from an international federation in respect of part of international sports organisations and the right of national sports organisations to organise international sports activities which do not arise from direct membership of national organisations in international organisations, caused by various forms of the granting of so-called sports rights. These are the cases of carism, sports that are administered by the International gymnastics Federation, sports gymnastics, rhythmic gymnastics, aerobics, trampoline jumps, acrobatics, the delegation of rights to sports administered by the International Council for Military Sports and others. Since the regulatory acts of international sports organisations are different and do not have an unification in the regimes for granting these rights in national law, an optimal general formulation should be issued to cover the possible hypotheses where a specific national sports organisation may be deprived of those rights, and in all such cases the sports license under the Law on Physical Education and Sports should be withdrawn, as the Bulgarian Sports Federation will not be able to fully perform its functions internationally, represent our country and send athletes to international competitions, as well as organise such in our country. Paragraphs 3 and 4 propose the right to receive a monetary prize for the awards awarded to European, world championships, Olympics and similar championships for disabled people to extend to a wider range of athletes who have achieved high sports results. Achievement of subpoena rankings to eighth place, even when the athlete has not won a medal in certain sports, represents significant success for Bulgarian athletes. The efforts and efforts for the result of sport should be encouraged and encouraged. The possibility of rewarding non-medialist benefactors was also provided for in the old law. It's almost 40 years of practice by the Ministry of Sports. Paragraph 5 of the Bill refers to the children of the deceased Olympic medalists. First of all, I would like to stress that also on the cancelled and the new, already in force since 18 January 2019. The Olympic medalists acquire the right to a lifelong monthly premium after their active sports activity is terminated. For the first time now, with the new law, we have introduced the right of the children of the deceased Olympic medalists, who were entitled to a lifetime bonus to inherit this bonus under conditions laid down in the Law. According to art. 137 paragraphs 1 and 2 of the new law only children who have acquired this right since 18 January 2019 may inherit the life-saving monthly premium in the amount received by the deceased medalist. It is only right for children who meet the requirements of the new Law on Physical Education and Sports to have the right to inherit the lifelong monthly premium of their deceased Medalists parents, which they have received under the repealed law. In this sense, it is also § 5 of the "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u49	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. We're moving on to discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! From the very beginning of my speech, I would like to say that we will support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, although we have some reservations regarding the first proposal in the Bill, which refers to the order and manner of licensing of road sports federations. Dear colleagues, here from the parliamentary group of the DPS, we reserve the right between first and second readings to submit a proposal for amendments to the Law. As regards the second proposal in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sport, which refers to art. 134, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 135, para. 1, which reads: athletes, medalists and winners of European and world championships, Olympics and similar championships and games for people with disabilities, as well as coaches and officials directly related to their preparation may be awarded by the Minister of Youth and Sports with one-off monetary assistance, prizes under art. 134, p. 2 for their achieved sports results and rankings. We fully support this proposal from the Parliamentary Group, and we believe that they will be further motivated, both athletes and their coaches, given that there is very large international competition in the Olympic disciplines. With regard to the third proposal in "Transitional and Final Provisions" in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, in § 5, para. 1: the persons whose parents died Olympic medalists received a lifelong monthly bonus under art. 59b, para. 2, p. 5 of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports, are entitled to receive monthly monetary assistance under art. 134, p. 4 if they meet the requirements of art. 137, para. One or two. Honourable Members, this was the proposal of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which was made last year in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Subsequently, a proposal which was recognized and upgraded by fellow Members of the National Assembly, I can say from all parliamentary groups represented, which we from the DPS enjoy. We have remained convinced, as this law, this proposal from last year has been postponed for one year, arguing that at the end of the year a whole new law will be adopted, in which exactly these amendments would be adopted, these proposals would have been laid down. It turns out that seven or eight months since we adopted the Bill, these amendments have not been enshrined in the new bill. Dear colleagues, we can't help but ask ourselves that someone somewhere hasn't done their job properly. The responsibility lies with these underprivileged children of our late Olympic medalists. Therefore, I ask: who is responsible for the fact that, first last year, for a whole year, we postponed the adoption of this proposal, yet I say, on the ground that there will be a whole new law, and this year, seven months later, because this law is a fact from January 18th, it turns out that these children, the children of the Olympic medalists, are not within the scope of the new law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ali. - What's the line? I can't see. For speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! Today, we are looking at an amendment and supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports, several paragraphs that concern various materials from public relations in the field of sport; paragraphs that have no mutual relationship between them, one of which concerns the order in which they are licensed, and the order in which licences are withdrawn from sports organisations; and paragraphs that concern the policy of the Minister of Sports, which gives him the right and opportunity to extend the scope of opportunities for award and promotion of talents and athletes who have achieved high sports achievements of European and world championships. There is also a paragraph that concerns a proposal from colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to inherit the living bonus of children of deceased athletes. This proposal was related to the adoption of the new law on sport and concerned children of deceased medalists, which in fact missed the opportunity of the welded cases to benefit from this amendment. We are, of course, not against this noble goal and cause, which concerns the motivation of athletes who have proven high sporting achievements, of talents who have the opportunity to participate in European championships and the world Olympic Games, to be encouraged, to be rewarded by the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, as long as there is the opportunity, and the minister to take advantage of this right. Of course, we cannot be about and strongly opposed in a practice that, I would say, damages the image and prestige of the National Assembly. Many times we have said from this tribune that lobbying laws do not import anything in terms of trust in the institutions in Bulgaria. The National Assembly, you know, has one of the lowest rates of approval precisely because of this vicious practice, which has been introduced in recent years. The creation of lobbying laws, and sometimes, as they say, we know the person for whom the laws are made and written. This contributes, apart from a bad image, I would say, to the destruction of trust in these institutions, to the bitterness of dozens, in this case and case, athletes, organisations that have experience and have contributed to the prestige of a particular sport; the case concerning the withdrawal and the opportunities for withdrawal of licences and the exact private-law dispute between two organisations, one of which, you know, is the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation, to which a license for the exercise of sports activity has been legally revoked, granted for one day on another, a newly formed sports organisation. Since the Law and the procedure today give us the right to speak only in principle, I say that we will abstain from this bill not because of the included paragraphs which concern the fact that we have just shared, the reward and encouragement of medalists, athletes and so on, which must be motivated, but because of the vicious practice that the National Assembly continues the introduction and the possibility of resolving purely private-law disputes between sports organizations through amendments to the Law and legislative activity. In this way, we cannot delegate rights or revoke rights with amendments to the Sports Act of every case in the sports community. We will abstain, between first and second readings, we will make our changes and at second reading, of course, we will strongly oppose the Law in its part about licences to change in this extremely subjective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Chenchev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll supplement my colleague, Merry Lecheva. I will read you the beginning of the reasons: The project aims to improve and eliminate some found incompletes in the law on physical education and sport in several aspects: the system of licensing sports federations; the award of athletes who achieved high sports results and the right of children of deceased Olympic medalists to receive monthly monetary assistance from the Ministry of Youth and Sports. This is a new law that you have made, and see when we make repairs, we find incompleteness. In this law, by the way, and on this issue, on these incompletes, in parliamentary control, I asked questions to the Minister of Youth and Sports and thanks to the President, who gave me quite a lot of time, we discussed the case, especially with regard to the revoked license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation. What really worked out? This amendment was tabled on April 19th this year. However, the license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation was revoked before then and at the moment when this Federation was in the mode of official request for an international certificate. Apart from that, the federations had a grace period of one year to obtain all the necessary documents in order to exist as such, which also a grace period had not been met. The license was revoked long before the expiry of this one year. It was said here that there was a case. That's right, there's a case. The Federation of Motorists has filed a case, but the final decision in this case will probably be in November. Now that the National Assembly has decided this thing, this lobbyist amendment that has been introduced, what do you think the court will decide? That is why colleague Lecheva said that we are against such practice and there is no way to support this part. By the way, this isn't just about the motorists, it's about all the federations. For the inheritance of monetary aid or the so-called life prizes from children of deceased Olympic medalists with both hands we are both in favour and at second reading we will support these proposals, of course, as well as for the winners not only for the medalists of the European championships. [[GERB lines.]] You had it! You can see that the new law has not established the good of the old one, and it is not in the current one, which entered into force on January 18th this year. I also asked the Minister: my second question to him of recent parliamentary control was what were the findings of incompleteness, what is the state of the federations, except, of course, for the stolen license of the motorists? In this regard, it is not bad in the National Assembly for all of us as MPs to think, after Bulgaria shows an enviable economic growth, there is a budget surplus, probably next year there will be again, in this sense is not the time to think about an increase in the budget for sport in Bulgaria? You all know the opinion of the federations and the condition of the base, plus we do not develop in this budget only in terms of professional, elite sport. Because of the bad results that Bulgarian children have, and the statistics that are catastrophic for their physical condition and fitness, we need to increase the budget in order to be able to ensure not only through programs the development of the widely proclaimed mass sport, as it was, which will lead to a healthier nation, and that is undeniable, and we all know it. Now we will abstain. We will make our proposals between first and second readings, of course, we will support the medalist part, for the lifelong bonuses of children of deceased Olympic medalists, but the licensing part will not support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? To speak, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today, I appeal to everyone in this House and try to set an example in this direction, not to politicize sports. I will only take regard of the first point you speak of in this amending and supplementing law. I will try to give you a few examples to prove that it really is not really about any particular federation, but it is about many federations and many cases. Purely international sport-making is this case. Currently there are many international federations, international sports organisations that put in § 22 our sports organizations. The obligation to be a member of an international sports organisation and then to apply for a licence, or at least to designate such a sports organisation to which you will be a member in order to obtain a licence, is one part of the proposal. You're missing art. 22 of the Law. If only in art. 24, I would support you, colleagues. If only the repair had been put into art. 24.. where there is talk of the withdrawal of a license, I would support you 100% that you are right. But since the Bill is visualized and art. 22, by the way, I will say that the only remark to the text is that perhaps you should have in another article in art. 21, clearly and accurately determine who will pass on these rights, in the context of that in art. 22 clearly and precisely we are talking about an international sports organisation and there we are debating the passing of rights, I think it is not a legal problem, and between first and second reading this can be solved. What's that supposed to mean in plain language? We have a new Federation that wants to get a license. She cannot be a member of the International Federation because she has not yet obtained a license and is in a procedure and, at the same time, cannot obtain a licence because she is not a member of the International Federation. In all this time the year as provided under the Law, this sport by law cannot and should not develop in any way a sports-training, training-training, racing, any activity. This change now allows the International Sports Organization, without having to engage in membership, to grant rights for the development of this sport until the administrative licensing process is completed, because from the moment we enter the licensing process, the rights we are talking about now hold them only two members of the Sports Minister until the licence has been awarded and the licence holder has received it. The same applies if, during this period, the International Federation did not really adopt a Federation. You know, there are a lot of international sports federations that have four-year-old admissions, like during the Olympics, or during the World Cup, then do the convention and then accept members. Imagine the case: we have received a license which, however, obliges you to become a member of the International Sports Organization. However, you cannot receive membership from the International Sports Organization because its convention will be in two years. During these two years, it has happened that this sports organisation, which is in trouble, must be revoked from it for having committed infringements, must objectively be revoked from it, but we do not have a procedure to revoke a licence if it is only with privileges granted by the International Organisation. With this text, it just clears up this situation. As far as I am concerned, at the end of the day, I should say about the views expressed on the topic with the Auto Federation. Dear colleagues, both of you who have spoken here know very well that the administrative process in this case is over. We're now in the legal phase of this trial. How can we talk about interfering someone in this process, provided that even if this amendment were to happen, it would have no effect back in time because the administrative procedure was over. We have a Federation with a license, we have a Federation with a revoked license. They're in court, arguing administratively whether anyone has the right, whether or not I have the right to take it away from them. The court's decision will now determine how the whole case will end. With what is this amendment that we are now proposing going to affect this particular case? I see here some of BSP's best lawyers and I don't think we can talk real things. How are we going to influence this process to say that this concerns this sports federation? I can list from this tribune of sports federations, which are in this case, which according to the statutes of international organizations cannot be members of these organizations without having obtained a license. At the same time, however, if there are two such controversial organizations in the country, both point to the same international organisation. [[Noise and lines.]] How do we solve this problem? We decide that with the International Organisation's decision to grant the rights to one and it becomes legitimate for our administrative licensing process. I'm not going into any other debate. I think that in this case we can quite calmly have a consensus and a consensus because it solves problems. We do not create any tension here, even in the specific case of carism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. Manev. For a cue, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Manev, I think that you are not sufficiently aware of the terms and conditions under which international federations and sports organizations in Bulgaria operate. In Bulgaria, there is a very clear order under which licenses are given and revoked, which you are trying to complete today because of a specific case that arose between two sports organizations, not even between two sports organizations, but an interpersonal dispute between two organizations, one of which is a sports organization that received a license under the old and new law. The conditions and procedures we have taken, the criteria by which licences are given and withdrawn, are very clearly described. Today you are already trying to legitimize that act of your own for the revocation of a license, giving tomorrow the court the opportunity to invoke the new provision that you have adopted in the Assembly. This is purely lobbying legislation that you are trying to implement and accept, which we are reacting to and against which we are a priori to the National Assembly. Since the dispute and the procedure today allow us to speak only in principle and not in substance, therefore I say that we are against the way in which legislative initiatives are proposed and adopted, serving personal, private interests, predetermining the fate of sports organizations who have experienced dozens of years, and athletes who have devoted their efforts to the functioning of a sport in Bulgaria, limiting these rights, directing these processes through the adoption of new changes. We are against this practice and will therefore vote abstention. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At second reading, we will make our views very clear on this particular case.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Second line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manev, thank you for saying that we should not politicize in sports. I am pleased that this has not been done in the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. At least I have not noticed such a thing, for which I thank not only Commissioners, but also the working groups that we have done under the various laws that we have dealt with. If we are talking about the motorists, we are talking about something very simple, and this is precisely the following: we have a Federation which is developing an activity - the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation. Twenty-seven years the contestants defend Bulgaria's honour and colors at internal and international competitions with an absolute legal character how to do it. At one point when they apply for an international certificate as required, they have one year grace period, the licence is revoked at this time. It is given to a new federation, notice, the next day, which until now, almost did not exist in legal peace. Then, since it is clear that this is illegal, this amendment is being made. It's done after this case. You know, this thing and the withdrawal of the license got the motorists to protest in front of the Council of Ministers. This amendment has been made, we have not for a reason asked: why? There are lawsuits. All this is the result of the unlawful revocation of the license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation. That is precisely why we have told you: so, by practicing the amendments for amendment and supplement, if so we are going to make a correction of the incompletes, by doing it for our wrong actions before then the result is to get people or federations out on the street, and not only these federations, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Manev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u62	Colleagues, I'll split my answer into two parts. I'm going to try to say this one more time quite collegiately and quite friendlyly. I see colleague Popov in the hall and other lawyers. Please explain that we cannot influence the trial with what we will decide today in this Chamber. That's the main thing. Regarding the first line. In my speech, not once, and before that, the chairman of the Sports Commission, the Vice-President of the Sports Commission, we did not allow ourselves to take sides in a dispute that is in court, and you accuse us of lobbying. Now let's honestly, honestly tell ourselves who is a lobbyist, the one who stands on the stand to determine that one federation for 27 years, and the other Federation do not know what, the third Federation or those who say that this text solves problems?! And to that point, not a word, not a sound on the subject: which of the two federations? Which of us in this room can hire to stand up and say from the National Assembly stands that one sports federation is better than the other, one athletes are better than the others?! The first line about licensing. I am convinced and sure, I know from experience that granting licences at an earlier time when it was the Sports Commission was different, but now there is a Law. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I know the law, I've learned it by heart, I've been involved in licensing policies, and I can tell you that they've been completely different since when you weren't a ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u63	Thank you, Mr. Manev. To speak, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As chairman of this committee, I cannot be proud of the high level of this debate. There's no politicizing, there's no you're bad, you're good, you're not what you did 10 years ago, what you did 20 years ago. There were extremely well-trained people in the field of sports "Manev," Lecheva, Chenchev, Ali. So now you'll hear my opinion. Our parliamentary group at first reading will support the proposals of colleagues from GERB because they are reasonable. Especially the orphans of the Olympic champions. For the first time in the Commission, Mr. Ali proposed it, and then he was supported by all the political parties. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] This is the first time Mr. Ali has officially proposed it. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] Okay, let's not argue, Mrs. Daritkova. And you were firmly on that point, for which I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u65	Make a line later, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u66	Then make a line, Mrs. Daritkova. I am glad that all political parties are undoubtedly behind this fair model. GERB's second proposal is also extremely accurate...... also to receive bonuses, because you know that there are sports in Bulgaria, such as white sports, for which sixth place in the World Cup or Olympic Games is an extremely serious success for Bulgaria, and so far they have been thrown out of the Law. This proposal of colleagues from GERB is also good. The only controversial thing is the first proposal. I hope between first and second readings, although true things have been said here and they have been brought into court, our committee has always been quite tolerant and I think that between first and second reading it might be nice to hear the opinions of both sides. I think this is gonna work. So at first reading we will support the Bill. I hope that at second reading the controversial moments will be cleared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u68	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Atanasov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not really claim the authorship of this proposal, but in order to be correct and to really clarify the consistency of this proposal, which managed to unite all the parliamentary groups, I would point out that, as early as 19 September 2017, the parliamentary group of GERB made a proposal to amend the Law on Physical Education and Sports, precisely in the direction of having the opportunity to inherit the medalists' bonuses from Olympic and national competitions. I believe that now is the time to accept these proposals, which will also enable the law to have a retroactive effect, because indeed due to a technical omission, there is still no possibility to give bonuses to those who have already died Olympic medalists and their successors. I hope that this bill will be supported at first reading, and between first and second reading all MPs have the opportunity to make their adjustments with the relevant legislative proposals, because indeed on the topics that unite us, we should look for solutions that are in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, especially on such a sensitive topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. Second line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Atanasov, tell Mrs. Daritkova in your duplicate, first because I will tell you as a witness, and you have also witnessed that you did not GERB offer what you actually proposed first, in the Commission and after two days was introduced by the Political Party GERB. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] That's the truth, I'm telling you as a witness, 2017 for which you... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] I'm telling you this very seriously. [[speaking indistinctly]] Because you said, if we have to be correct, we're right now. The second thing, Mr. Atanasov, has kept God from affecting the court with any of our decisions. I do not believe the National Assembly will intervene in the work of the court, nor will it be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Atanasov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm very glad that for a truly sacred and sacred case, which we're about to vote on... Controversy came up. Who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity, who's paternity doesn't matter to me. The important thing is that God sees and does something good and pleasing to God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any other speeches? I can't see. We close the debate and move on to voting on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Vote 156 MPs: 94, none, abstention 62. The bill was passed at first reading. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the period between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports should be three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. In return, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, we have not heard reason why three days. I'm making a reverse proposal to make the deadline maximum because nothing requires this shortened deadline. Moreover, here Mr. Atanasov said that part of the bill is nice to hear the dispute on both sides. That takes time. After hearing both sides, respectively, the MPs, the parliamentary groups, can make their proposals under this bill. Therefore, let the deadline be maximum, there is in no way any harm to the interests, you said that there is a reverse effect of the Law that you have proposed with regard to those who should receive aid under this law. So nothing prevents it from being the maximum term. Therefore, I call on you: let it be the maximum period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u77	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please now vote on Mr. Ivanov's proposal for proposals between first and second readings to be three days. Vote 163 MPs: 85, against 73, abstention 5. The proposal is accepted, but there is a procedural proposal for revoting. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am doing a re-voting procedure because colleague Nencheva and another colleague have just entered the Chamber and failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Please announce the vote again on Mr. Ivanov's proposal, revoting. Vote 168 MPs: 83, against 80, abstention 5. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The offer is not accepted. It seems to me that we must now vote on Mr. Popov's proposal to maximum the period between first and second readings 14 days. Please declare a vote. Vote 163 MPs: 79 against 79, abstention 5. And this proposal is not accepted, so the standard seven-day deadline remains. And that concludes this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u80	Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving on to the next point that we adopted with our decision at the beginning of today's sitting: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO CREATE A TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR EXPLAINING ALL FACTS AND ASSISTANCES AROUND THE CASE OF ELECTRONIC DATA INFORMATION FROM THE NATIONAL AGENCEMENT OF REVENUE. A draft decision has been submitted, which reads: Project! DECISION establishing a temporary committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Creates a temporary committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency. 2. The Commission should carry out the necessary steps to clarify all the facts and circumstances within three months and submit a report. 3. The Commission shall consist of 15 Members of Parliament, three Members of Parliament from each Parliamentary Group. elects the President of the Commission, Vice-President and Members as follows. We are moving on to a discussion of the draft decision and a proposal to complete the composition of the Commission. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the last few weeks, the topic of draining information from the National Revenue Agency's electronic database has been discussed in public and media space. The competent authorities have taken action in order to clarify the facts and circumstances of how it has obtained unauthorised access to the NRA database in which personal data and information about several million Bulgarian citizens are stored. The Ministry of Finance, the National Revenue Agency, the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data within the framework of their powers and is being monitored, and operational and search activities by the Ministry of Interior and the DANS under the authority of the Prosecutor's Office are also being carried out. It has reached detention, pre-trial proceedings and prosecutions. Since the subject is of serious public interest, unfortunately, it is not always used quite correctly by all politicians, I believe that it is here in the National Assembly that is the place where we need to set up a committee of inquiry with a temporary action to allow clarification of all the facts and circumstances in order to have sufficient information about both the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens in order to learn lessons and to take measures to improve cybersecurity without creating tensions and panic, and at the same time to be able to clarify the whole picture of the cyber attack against the NAP's arrays. Our proposal is for this commission to be built on a parietal principle with 15 members and we propose that the parliamentary group of GERB be: Krasimir Tzipov, Alexander Ivanov and Manoil Manev, and we propose as President of the Commission Krasimir Tsipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u82	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. This was an importer's opinion, and it also contained a proposal from GERB's parliamentary group to fill in the composition of the Commission. Are there any other statements? We are expecting proposals for Commissioners from the other parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, we will support the establishment of such a committee of inquiry, even more public interest and attitudes are really to understand exactly what has happened, and such problems in the future should not be repeated. We from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we offer Rumen Gechev, Yavor Bojankov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov as vice-president we offer Rumen Gechev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u84	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the parliamentary group of the DPS we will propose as members of the Commission the MPs Ahmed Ahmedov, Sergey Kichikov and Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Do you have a proposal for a chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u87	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u88	From the other parliamentary groups? Will you be offering members from WOLF? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rodolipkitsi (Bulgaria) we offer as members of the temporary committee of inquiry Krastina Nikolova Taskova, Dora Stoyanova Hristova and Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u90	Ladies and gentlemen of the United patriots, shall we hear the proposals of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u91	Honourable Members, I propose on behalf of a parliamentary group - United patriots - for Commissioners Valentin Kasabov, Margarita Nikolova and Yordan Yordanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u92	Dear Members of Parliament, are there any comments, considerations regarding the upcoming choice? We'll move on to the vote. The rules for the permanent committees of Parliament shall apply to the selection of temporary committees of inquiry. According to them, the election is an anbloc, proposed as members of the committees members are voted together, unless there are particular considerations against a proposal for a candidacy. I don't see any reaction to the proposals. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, a small procedure is proposed in our proposal instead of Mr. Yordan Yordanov, who is prevented by order of circumstances from being replaced by Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u94	Mr. Mihov, this is an opinion of the group on behalf of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u95	Yeah. [[(Replys from SG of OP: No problem.) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria and from the DPS: It does not have a group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u96	Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal for members of the Temporary Commission, which came from the parliamentary group of GERB party, I repeat: Krasimir Tzipov for President, Alexander Ivanov, Emmanuel Manev. Please, voting mode. [[GERB lines: "Anblock. "]] Cancel the vote. My colleagues are making a note, and we should read all the names for a very good reason, since there are no objections and vote. Is there any objection from the House to this way? No. I have read the names of the proposed by GERB. Prof. Rumen Gechev, Yavor Bojankov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. Professor Gechev has been proposed as Chairman. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" For Vice-President. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u97	For vice-president.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u98	For vice-president. However, the selection of the temporary committee's leadership will take place separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u99	It has no conflict.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u100	It has no conflict, yes. I read: Vice-President Rumen Gechev, Yavor Bojankov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov as members. From the parliamentary group of DPS: Sergey Kichikov, Halil Letifov and...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u101	Ahmed Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u102	And Ahmed Ahmedov. Kristina Taskova, Dora Hristova and Boryana Georgieva are the proposals for members of the group of the party "VOLIA" - Bulgarian Rodoljuktsi. The revised list of "United Patriarchs": Valentin Kasabov, Margarita Nikolova and Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u103	From the band.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u104	Thank you for the correction by the group of the United Patriarchs. Please vote on proposals just reported in plenary. Vote 171 MPs: for 171, against and abstention there is no. The decision has been adopted, we have set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of the draining of information on the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency in a composition broadcast in today's National Assembly meeting. The Commission has as Chairman the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov and Vice-President Professor Rumen Gechev. The period of validity of its work shall be up to 3 months in accordance with the decision. With this, we have exhausted the emergency point, which is further accepted as point four.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u105	Colleagues, let's move on to the next point: DISCLOSURES BY THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES GEORGI JORDANOV, GEORGI MICHAILOV, ANELIA CLISAROVA, ORIAN TIMCHEV, VALENTINA DAYNOV, IBAN IBRISHIMOV AND GEORGI GYOKOV TO THE MINISTER OF HEALTH KIRYLANIUM ON THE POLICY OF THE MINISTERATION OF HEALTH WITH THE CARDIC PROFESSIONALS. At the same meeting 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs have submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision shall be sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 5 July 2019. A second draft was introduced for a decision by 5 MPs from the political party parliamentary group "VOLIA" on 17 July 2019, which was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. A third draft decision by 8 MPs from the political party GERB parliamentary group and the parliamentary group of "United patriots" was introduced on 18 July 2019, also sent to the MPs in electronic form. We have three solutions. I give the floor to the importers. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! What are the main reasons for which we asked for debates in this House? Firstly, the main function of the Ministry of Health is research and analysis of the needs of medical professionals and their provision for the health network. Unfortunately, in recent years, this function has not been fully implemented, and I can say that at times and not at all. This led to severe problems with the provision of medical personnel in the various geographical areas of the country. Secondly, we are absolutely well-intentioned and we would like the ambition of the Minister of Health and his health reform team to start with the clear awareness that it will not be a single moment, but must start with small steps. Here, the need to prepare the healthcare system for its reform in terms of staff is particularly important because the healthcare system has three main pillars. These are citizens who are potential patients, the network of health and health institutions and funding. The most important thing is the preparation of citizens for a new healthcare system, whether their socio-economic and demographic status allows the introduction of a new healthcare system. But also the preparation of the healthcare system itself for the reform is extremely important, because without such preparation nothing can happen. Thirdly, the development of a National Health Card. We believe that the development of the National Health Card in the research and analysis part of the needs of medical professionals is carried out by regional health inspections for the simple reason that they do not have the competence to do so. Because there should be scientifically justified criteria at national level to support this activity. After all, at the moment, the National Health Card is a picture of the existing situation as minimum requirements, but it does not say at all when medical professionals in a given area are not reachable or they are more, what happens to them. The need to adopt a methodology for the formation of the salary in the healthcare system concerning workers from all levels without this thing we cannot provide attractive jobs for Bulgarian medics, we cannot refuse them to travel abroad and we cannot motivate young Bulgarian medics to work in the country for the corresponding payment. It is particularly important to adopt an optimal regulation for postgraduate specialization. Literally hours ago, a version of a regulation was promulgated. We are pleased that here the Minister of Health has listened to our proposal that it is necessary to return the contractual beginning to medical specialization, and we believe that not only in the volume of medical specialization, but also in obtaining medical education. There are a number of unresolved issues because the creation of relationships between a wishing to specialise, between a medical university and a medical facility where this specialization should be carried out, there should be precise criteria on which the relevant arrangements will be conducted and not be free, voluntaristic. Finally, something very important. I think about a month ago we, with our decision, adopted the establishment of a seventh Medical Faculty in Burgas. Why? We currently have medical faculties in the country for less than 1 million Bulgarian citizens. With this demographic characteristic, it is clear that the state does not need to spend so much money on the production of medics. It just has to be a different road. 7th Medical School! Here I cannot fail to quote an opinion from the Bulgarian Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, who said years ago that, you see, the Germans produced Mercedes and we will produce doctors. Yes, but we pay for the Mercedes of the Germans, and they get our doctors for free, unfortunately. What is the state of the footage regarding the main medical professionals? We've never had so many doctors in our country, almost 31,000 people. In a few days during the promotions of medical faculties will flow more between 500 and 700 young Bulgarian medics into the ranks of Bulgarian doctors and will become members of the Bulgarian Medical Union. So, it is not the question of the quantity of Bulgarian doctors, but the question is in their quality and their specialization. The question is that we should make Bulgarian healthcare attractive so that they can want to work in our country. This can really happen with the contractual beginning, when they know as soon as they enter the Medical Faculty that they will have the opportunity not to pay any fee for their training and could use at very small prices or free dormitories or feeding in the student chairs, and against that three years after graduation they undertake to work on a site specified by the State in the face of the Ministry of Health. The issue with doctors is the need for sufficiently narrow specialists, at least on the main medical specialties. Here in the Postgraduate Specialization Ordinance, these specialties are not justified, which are particularly critical. Do we know them? Yeah, we all know them. These are anesthesiologists, pathoanatoms, children's diseases and others. We must create these incentives for Bulgarian doctors to want to specialize, especially in these specialties. Here, in order not to think that we are blaming the current team of the Minister of Health, I would like to say that throughout Europe and around the world these specialties are deficient, but we still have to take care of the needs of such specialties in Bulgaria. Dentist doctors. Almost 9,000 people are about to flow. Again, we have never had so many Bulgarian dentists in the country. But like doctors, they are not normally located, i.e. proportional in the different regions of the country. They are in the major centers of Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna. And in peripheral areas, in demographically weak areas of the country, we just don't have doctors or dentists. Paradox! As long as so many pharmacy faculties have been created, we don't have enough pharmacists! The system suffers a shortage of magistrates-pharmacists, provided that both in doctors and dentists, they are produced not only in medical universities in Bulgaria. A small part of Bulgarian young people receive their medical education in other countries and then come to practice in Bulgaria. However, the issue of the real crisis with regard to health care professionals is particularly important. In Bulgaria, health care specialists currently have about 50 thousand people, of which nurses are about 29 thousand, midwifes three-four thousand. In the years before democracy, there were almost 100,000 specialists in health care in Bulgaria. We have 31,000 doctors, 9,000 dentists, 40 thousand, the criterion is two to one. So we have to have 80,000 nurses to meet the basic criterion two to one. Even in developed countries, this criterion is now three to one, and we have only 29 thousand nurses, and that is, notice, in an age where their professional longevity cannot be predicted. One part of them is about fifty years old, one small part for Bulgaria are over 60 years old at the age of retirement and continue to work. That's why we believe that the real catastrophe awaits us here, and it won't be that far away. We support the fair protests of nurses and paramedics to increase their pay, which is not so great, given the salaries in other sectors of the economy, they want two minimum wages. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In connection with all of this, and since I have to get this over with, I'd like to introduce you to ours. Project! DECISION 1. Instructs the Minister of Health to prepare a detailed analysis and gives reasons for the existing problems with the medical staff in the country. 2. By 30 September 2019, the Minister of Health shall submit to the Committee on Health the measures to address shortages and disproportions and to raise the remuneration of medical personnel. These measures should be linked and be included in the 2020 budget and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u107	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor to present your draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, in connection with the debate on the questioning by BSP colleagues, we propose a draft decision with which we would actually like to assign you a slightly more specific task, which would be one step on which you can build this analysis, which both BSP colleagues and GERB expect from you. Most likely one of the two projects will be accepted anyway. Our idea is to talk in the concrete now, because we are all aware that the problems are either demographic or rather economic. Therefore, we have allowed ourselves to ask you to study in the economic part with what payment is the average payment on the territory of the country, but in municipalities and districts, because not all regions in Bulgaria are affected by a crisis and lack of personnel? The other thing we know is that it is very difficult, and if we find support from the other parliamentary groups, we will change even the deadline so it can be extended. We believe that it is high time that this registry of diseases, which we are talking about repeatedly, should be in the plan for the development of health care in Bulgaria at all. So we are willing to change even if the deadline is not by the end of this year, but I hope that colleagues will agree and draw up this really important document so that in the future even the budget for medicines, the budget for salaries, I do not know how it is done without a register of diseases in Bulgaria and, accordingly, the need to provide medical staff and doctors. Project! DECISION concerning the debate on the questioning The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Minister of Health to provide, by 31 December 2019, information on the number of practitioners in specialities and on medical specialists in areas and in municipalities. 2. Let us know what the average salary of medical specialists and doctors in specialties is. 3. To present within the same period a register of all diseases in the country and the number of diseased by types of diseases again by districts and municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, for the presentation of the opinion of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u110	The draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u111	And the solution project, yes. Importer of Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Conscious of the issue of the personnel provision of the healthcare system as a topic of extreme importance for the sector, we also want to propose our Project for a solution, because we need to unite ourselves around the possibilities of finding real solutions to overcome the existing personnel crisis, and it is a multi-spective one concerning all levels of medical care and deficit not only to doctors, but also to nurses, lab technicians and all other specialities. I would like to say that we have really always kept to a reasonable dialogue and that our Project for a solution repeats to a large extent the logic of the other drafts of a solution, but it uses correct definitions and legal terms. That is why we ask that you really support it, because it is in line with the decisions already made. We believe that there are real steps in the direction of improving the possibility of access to the specialization of young doctors. I hope that the Minister of Health will have the opportunity to introduce you to the novelties of the Specialization Ordinance. I think that the steps in the direction of improving the pay of health care professionals should also be taken into account, something which is also an important condition to keep specialists in Bulgaria. Of course, there is a great regional imbalance in the provision of medical personnel and possible solutions should be sought not only through the actions of the Ministry of Health, but also with the combined efforts of the local authorities. There are also good examples in this respect of the payment of scholarships for deficit medical majors or the acquisition of funding for the training of nurses from municipalities where the relevant deficit is observed. We offer to your attention our draft decision, which I will read in a moment, but I would still like to address my colleagues on the left and ask them: to change their practice because I think it is a sign of bad political taste to use the authority and the name of Prime Minister Borisov, to take advantage of his high rating and to attach it to every problem topic, because this in no way brings them dividends. I offer your attention. Project! DECISION 1. Instructs the Minister of Health to prepare a detailed analysis of the insurance of the healthcare system with healthcare professionals in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the existing problems in providing healthcare professionals on the territory of the country. 2. Within 30 September 2019, the Minister of Health shall submit to the National Assembly Committee on Health specific measures to address existing problems in the provision of medical professionals in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u113	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Colleagues, I'll introduce you to the time distribution. Time is one hour, determined in the special text of art. 105, para. 2. It shall not be subject to art. 58, para. 2 of Chapter 7 for a request from a parliamentary group for an extension of a predetermined time. The Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB.. 19 minutes,...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have asked to take the floor at the outset in order to provide you with up-to-date information regarding staffing with medical professionals, which I hope will support the debate that is to come within this hour. What is the state of human resources in healthcare in Bulgaria? Human resources in the health sector in Bulgaria face the same challenges as the other European countries: ageing population and, respectively, ageing workforce in the health sector; insufficient attractiveness for the young generations of some health professions Despite these challenges, the insurance with doctors in Bulgaria is traditionally high. According to the National Statistical Institute, the insurance with doctors as of 31 December 2018 was 42.4 per 10,000, and in the European Union the average level was 35.1 per 10,000. Over the past 13 years, there has been a sustainable trend for increasing insurance with doctors in the country. According to the data provided by the Bulgarian Medical Union on the age structure of the registered doctors in the national register of word organizations, there is a serious increase of almost 2.7 times in the number of doctors up to 30 years of age from 1156 to 31 December 2014 at 3100 at 31 December 2017. However, there is an uneven distribution of doctors in the country, regional differences are within 2.4 times. Over the past 10 years, there has been a sustainable trend for increasing the number of medical graduates in Bulgaria. A total of 840 places for medical students were established for the academic year 2019 and a total of 850 seats for medical students for the academic year 2018. The confirmed number of students per year around 800 " 850" is sufficient for the needs of the health care system in the country and no further increase is needed. The insurance with dentists in Bulgaria is also traditionally high compared to other Member States, even among the highest in Europe. The number of dentists in the country has increased over the past 16 years, with from 6475 in 2003, reaching 7240 in 2018, according to NSI data, which is an increase of nearly 12%. The increase by nearly two and a half times of the absolute number of dentists up to 30 years of age entered in the National Register of the Bulgarian Dental Union from 608 at 31 December 2011 on 1462 at 31 December 2017. There are also positive trends in Master Pharmacists. In recent years, both their total number and the number of Master Pharmacists increased to 30 years. According to data from the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the number of master pharmacists registered in the national register of the word organization for the period 2013 - 2017 increased, reaching 6399 people as of 31 December 2017. The number of master-pharmacists up to 30 years, registered in the National Register of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, has increased from 209 to 31 December 2013 to 1044 at 31 December 2017. The number of health care professionals has remained relatively constant for the last 15 years except for the profession of nurse. The most important problem for human resources and healthcare in Bulgaria is the small number of nurses exercising their profession. Compared to the Member States of the European Union, the insurance with nurses in Bulgaria is low and our country is in one of the last places in the European Union according to this indicator. A sharp decline in the number of nurses working in Bulgaria was observed in 2000 when their number decreased by more than 30% from 45 252 in 1999 to 31 479 in 2000. In 2002 this indicator marked its lowest value when the nurses employed in the country were 28 508. In the following years there is a tendency for a slight increase, according to NSI data as of 31 December 2018, their number is 30 589. The objective causes of the shortage of nurses are the ageing population and the increase in chronic diseases that require more healthcare, on the one hand, and the ageing of nurses themselves, similar to the population they serve, on the other. The generalized conclusions confirmed in the European Commission Report for 2019 on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances are as follows: in Bulgaria there is a shortage of nurses, doctors are unevenly distributed, with the percentage of general practitioners at a low rate of 15% compared to the average European value, which is 23%. It is important to note that regional disproportions of doctors and other medical professionals are a problem not only in our country, but also for all other countries, including the most developed. After analyzing population insurance data, the specific characteristics of medical care should be taken into account by districts. Medical establishments are not directly linked to the service of the population in a single locality or municipality, and access to medical care is also free. A large number of establishments serve the population of one district or group of municipalities, while specialized establishments serve the population of several districts. The national-wide establishments, regardless of their location, serve the entire country's population. The processes of internal migration of medical professionals, including doctors, from small to larger settlements follow the overall trend in the country. There is a definite importance for this is the almost complete withdrawal of local authorities from creating better financial conditions, additional pay, especially in the system of primary medical care. This is one of the reasons why some of the municipal hospitals do not have enough specialists, do not meet the requirements for levels of competence and cannot conclude contracts on certain clinical paths with the National Health Insurance Fund, which is an additional factor for stimulating internal and external migration. Unlike financial and material resources, human resources are not subject to mechanical or compulsory territorial distribution. For their optimal redistribution, it is necessary to create a favourable environment, providing opportunities and incentives to produce in the medical specialists themselves a desire to change the workplace and the settlement. Such incentives can be the creation of attractive working conditions and appropriate remuneration, good conditions for professional development, favourable conditions for training and development of children of medical professionals and for the work of other family members. Measures to address the identified human resources problems in health care. We note that it is extremely important that medical professionals trained in Bulgaria are motivated to stay and develop in our country. For this reason, creating favorable opportunities for professional development of medical professionals is a priority measure of the Ministry of Health. After a broad public discussion, the work on the Ordinance on Amendment and Supplement to Ordinance No 1 of 2015 on the acquisition of a specialty in the health system, which removes identified problems and gaps in training for the acquisition of a specialty, has been completed. The regulation has already been published in the Official Journal. The Ministry of Health within its competence has provided for measures to deal with regional disproportions in medical professionals. The amendment and the Appendix to Regulation No 1 introduces an effective mechanism for carrying out the public policy in order to ensure the necessary specialists in accordance with the identified needs in the individual hospitals within the territory of the country. The amendments to the Ordinance provide for the Ministry of Health to subsidise training facilities for places financed by the State in the clinical programmes. In this way, the state policy in providing the necessary specialists will be conducted actively and with funding from the state budget, and will not be at the expense of the budget of the medical institutions. After the acquisition of a specialty, the residents for whom a subsidy has been paid will be able to choose medical institutions, districts or municipalities designated by the Minister of Health, where there is a shortage of specialists who will be required to work on the acquired specialty for a period of three years. The aim is to meet the needs of the population in the regions with a lack of specialists. That order is much more flexible and enables, on the one hand, the acquired specialty for which a subsidy has been paid to have a greater freedom of choice where to exercise its right to work and, on the other, the employer to have the right to assess the personal and professional qualities of the acquired specialty. In the presence of choice options by the specialist, he will be able to choose his employer in accordance with the conditions offered to him or to reveal his infirmary for specialised or primary medical care. If a resident for whom a subsidy has been paid does not fulfil his obligation, he will owe compensation to the Ministry of Health. Over the next three years, the Ministry of Health plans to validate about 150.. 250 places per year for which to subsidise the training facilities, depending on the proposals and opportunities of the training facilities and the interest that will be shown by the candidates for training in such places. In addition to those measures taken by the Ministry of Health, impact measures by other authorities and institutions could be taken in particular by the local authorities. In this regard, the amendment of Decree No 1 of 2015 created a legal possibility for municipalities to also be able to participate in the financing and training of the specialists required for municipal hospitals. There are already good practices on the part of certain municipalities, which have provided for by municipal funds to assist young doctors and other medical professionals, providing them with housing and reimbursements for participation in training courses for the acquisition of specialty, monthly fees in municipal kindergartens and nurseries, travel expenses from and to the workplace if they live outside the municipality, and others. We believe that promoting such good practices would greatly contribute to overcoming territorial disproportions among medical professionals. It is important to bear in mind that the choice of one doctor or other healthcare professional to work in a particular place depends on several factors: the possibilities for professional development in the medical establishment; the available equipment and the basis of the medical establishment; the very settlement that should provide good living conditions and opportunities for the development of the family members of the healthcare professional. In order to stimulate the interest in the acquisition of a specialty of general medicine, which is essential for the health system, there has been a change in the conditions for the specialization of general medicine in the context of the creation of the possibility of subsidising the training bases. The General Medicine Specialization will be carried out in accordance with the general order of clinical specialties based on a fixed contract of employment for a resident and not on the basis of an order of the Rector, which will solve the main problem of lack of income during the specialization. In order to increase the interest in general medicine specialization, however, it is necessary not only to improve the conditions for training, but also to have good professional realization after the completion of the training. The promotion of young people's interest in the profession of a nurse can be achieved through a targeted impact on the explicable causes of the ebb of the profession. The efforts should focus on: improving the working environment and optimizing staff in medical institutions to reduce the overload of nurses; creating opportunities for real professional development, validating the nurse's status as an equivalent partner in the medical team; dignified representation of the profession in society by institutions and by the media. Those measures fall outside the competence of the Ministry of Health, and therefore attracting and keeping nurses in the profession is a complex nadinstitutional problem that requires joint efforts of various institutions. Within its competence, the Ministry of Health offers annually to the Ministry of Education and Science a maximum increase in the number of places for students in the speciality of the medical nurse, according to the capacity of the higher schools appointed by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. For the academic year 2019, the Ministry of Health proposed to establish at least 960 seats for students in the specialty of the medical nurse. The draft decision of the Council of Ministers included only 618 pieces. In view of our proposal and the opportunities of higher schools, 714 seats for nurses were eventually established, i.e. an increase of 96 pieces. For the 2018 academic year, we proposed to increase the number of high school nurse seats by 130. As a result for the academic year 2018 - 2020 the number of places for students in the specialty of the medical nurse was increased by 47 pieces. The Ministry of Health plans to propose annually to the Ministry of Education and Science to validate about 1000 places for students in the specialty of medical nurse. It should be noted that for the optimal functioning of the health care system it is necessary that the ratio of a nurse to a doctor be at least two to one. As of 31 December 2018, according to NSI data, the ratio of nurses is 1.03 to 1, or 30,589 nurses against 29 667 doctors. In order to achieve the minimum necessary ratio between graduates of medical professionals, the number of students in the specialty of the medical nurse should exceed at least twice the number of students in the medical profession. During the last 18 years, there has been a permanent practice of validating more places for students under the Medical School than for students in the specialty of the Medical School. Accordingly, every year after 2000, the number of graduates is higher than the number of graduates of nurses. The final goal: to reach a ratio between students in the specialty "Medician nurse" and "Medicina" two to one, respectively the annual number of students in the specialty "Medician nurse" to be around or over 1500. This ratio cannot be achieved at once, of course, and a more realistic short-term goal is to achieve the ratio of 1.2 to 1 of students in the specialties of the medical nurse and the medical nurse. This means that in the case of validation of about 800 seats per year for students under the Medical School, it will be necessary to establish at least 960 for students in the specialty of the Medical School. The Ministry of Education and Science discusses the introduction of an opportunity to pay pre-graduate service and educational practices by providing scholarships or appointments to a This position should be regulatoryly regulated, which will be the basis for its introduction in the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs. In addition, together with the Ministry of Education and Science and the Higher Schools, opportunities for optimization of the curriculum are discussed in order to update the educational programs of the students in the specialty. The role of employers is key to attracting and detaining nurses in the profession, as they should provide: adequate remuneration is within the competence of the health care authorities; better working conditions• improving the working environment not only increases the satisfaction of professionals themselves, but also the quality of healthcare and patient satisfaction; supporting the professional development of nurses throughout their careers. The role of the Ministry of Health is to actively involve nurses in the decision-making process that concerns them and to create attractive conditions for acquiring a specialty. Currently, the Ministry of Health has taken measures to encourage employers to take advantage of the opportunity to appoint caretakers and health assistants who provide basic health care: feeding, general toilet, accompanying and transporting sick and others. This will reduce the overload of nurses and they will have the opportunity to focus on their specific professional qualifications activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Professor Mihailov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister Ananiev, at the beginning of my speech, I must tell you that with this 20-minute speech you have almost touched the opportunity to react after the great flow of figures you have flooded us with. But statistics are why it's statistics so that it can serve everyone. I will start my speech slightly different from the way I had constructed it at the beginning to bring you to us on earth, as we doctors say. These happy pictures that you drew, about the positive trends in satiety with doctors for example, I will start from them, then with pharmacists and the only problem, you see, these are health care professionals, and the problem with dentists is already very, very good, in fact, just as I will now quote them: out of the total number of doctors over 55% are over 55 years of age, only 9% are under 30 years of age and only 25% are under 45 years of age. You know the story of the world-renowned MI6 intelligence service that when the middle generation is missing, and that is what these data show, a vacuum is created in every service and it cannot perform its functions. This I share with you as a professor, as a doctor who is trying to educate young doctors that we really, due to the literal drain of professional blood from Bulgaria, are in a very serious chamber crisis that will deepen if no measures are taken. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to share that the good words for the Regulation... True in this regulation after many efforts, and here I particularly want to congratulate Professor Klisarova, who paid attention to you on the Health Commission, were changed some of the parameters that really created problems. In the course of my speech, I will try to argue that with a regulation, the problems of the personnel crisis will not in any case be solved. I would like to pay attention to you, drawing briefly the picture and entering the problem for healthcare professionals that there are now over 10,000 vacancies on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, if you go to our hospitals and you often visit them and you probably have been impressed, and these are data from NSI that more than 90% of the working nurses in Bulgaria are in retirement age. You focused on the problem of the student education of the nurses, on the student education of the medical masters. I want to tell you that's not the key, because when we're looking for sisters, we contact all the nurse universities in the country. Do you know what they say to me, Minister? That they signed a contract before their promotion as specialists, such as bachelors in health care and more than 90% leave the country and head to other countries of the European Union and even outside it. So all of this will not be resolved by a single regulation, nor by increasing the number of students of medical masters and specialists in health care. As for pharmacists, regardless of the statistical data we presented to you, I now see your efforts. In 90% of the district cities of the country, and this is also a problem in the capital city, if you leave at night looking for a pharmacy, with great pain you will find that you can hardly find. Over 10,000 settlements have no pharmacies at all. The fact that the number of pharmacies in Sofia may be slightly smaller than the number of lotto points does not mean that the problem of pharmacies in the country is solved. I do not want to enter into the internal structure of the deficit. You said some things, I will only mention the worst problems in terms of the purely personnel deficit in the country. For example, the number of children's surgeons in the Republic of Bulgaria is only 28 and the number of neonatologists is just over 40. You do realize, regardless of your statement, that there is free access to health care in Bulgaria, but when it comes to emergency access, things become very tragic for the family, which is looking for the relevant specialist. I will give you an example of the problem with the hospital in Vratsa, which will not benefit the Vratsa citizens at all, and will not be solved in any way by increasing the number of medical students, and it will have to be decided by other means, which I will shortly allow myself to talk about. I can quote to you the intensity of doctors, how poor Razgrad is with the number of general practitioners who are half of those in the country - 4 per 10,000 people. I must tell you that this is also correlated with all health indicators, with mortality. I have told you several times that in some regions of the country it is like military action and mass disasters, which is absolutely unacceptable for a country of the European Union. I will try, in the essential part of my speech, to pay your attention as a specialist, as a clinician, to what are the problems that lead to this serious personnel deficit, to the greatest regret where the ministry's persistence is the greatest to preserve this system of financing and management. I say: not the prefinancing that you have been offering for two years, but the financing through commercial companies. I remember your statement only a month and a half ago. You shared from your point of view as an economist that, you see, hospitals in Northwestern Bulgaria cannot receive remuneration because they cannot work, they cannot have turnover these hospitals. This philosophy, for me as a doctor and for the entire guild, you know that you and I are talking about this debate in terms of serious protest actions across the country. It is not accepted by the entire professional guild, Mr. Minister. People want a change not from funding the system, I say it very well, as my colleague before me said, but they want a change in the management of this system. I quoted you at the meeting in the Health Commission on Obstetrics Gynecological Assistance for Cesarean Section, here came specialists from the UK, from the Kingdom of Spain, and they all shared that in each of these European countries there is a national system for assessing the labour of medical professionals. They do not depend on what medical establishment they work in and what turnover this medical establishment has. This is a very serious problem for Bulgaria. It disinfects a huge number of young doctors and whatever we say that the trend is to reduce the number of leaving, it decreases because clinics in Western Europe are filled with doctors from both Romania and other Eastern countries. The problem in Eastern Europe is very serious with the personnel deficit, but it will not be solved under this health management system. Secondly, perhaps some of our colleagues have paid attention to the fact that we have spoken with Professor Klisarova that this is the issue that commercial companies are mixing the possibility of retirement with the Commercial Law. I have known Bible leaders over 75 years, over 80 years. Right now, there's a department head who's 88 years old. These are absolute anomalies that also demotivate the young footage. The career ladder is clogged, there is no growth in one medical establishment or another, and the possibility that these people will not be retired because, you see, this is how the personnel deficit is saved, creates in all young medical professionals the inability to grow up. This is one of the main reasons, besides the payment, for them to leave the country. Next, I want to share a reality that has been avoided in a single hospital in the country. This is St. Marina Hospital, which became owned by the Medical University of Varna. All the other universities, in practice, told me this and the Rector of Sofia Medical University, whom I deeply respect and have known for tens of years, he says: we have nothing but students. You correctly said: all universities are trying to increase the number of students. Why?! Because they get funding based on the number of students, but they don't run the clinical bases. We have reached the paradox: the largest hospital in the Balkans has been built in St. George's Day, but have you spent your time on the clinical base of St. George's? Shall I take you to Alexandrovska Hospital, which is the mother of all hospitals?! I'm ashamed to go there every week to lecture there and I'm ashamed to go to this hole in the center, with the crumbling buildings and with this escalator that smokes downtown, who knows why he was dumped in the centre of Alexandrovska Hospital. These are anomalies. These hospitals are to be commercial companies. I'm not opening the wound that we have over 79 university hospitals, which is such anachronism. And Professor Yordanov shared it with us. Who knows why we have now revealed another medical school of six and a half millionths of Bulgaria?! The ownership of universities, their relationship with clinical bases, their ability to manage their staff is an extremely serious issue to which the political elite of Bulgaria should pay attention. This can't be the Ministry's decision. There must be a change in the Law that gives the right universities to manage and own their hospitals. Next. What I want to say is: you have said that there is a desire to evaluate all the hospitals in the country and to see where the footage is missing. I have to tell you, with this way of financing medical facilities, if it doesn't change, there's no way you can make any medical professional... Here I will open the clamp and tell you: when we were fighting Dr. Daritkova and I remember that we were in a studio and it was about the specialization and the ability to oblige the staff to work then where they were sent from, then we were accused of wanting to secure these specialists. Now it's come, you see, after two and a half years to the idea that this is right and it should happen, but it's not true that a hospital can serve the whole country. That's true statistically, but when we used to meet at our next Congress of Transplantology in Zurich, the Federation chairman said: we can't have all the gas stations in Switzerland in Zurich. Thus all high-tech medical facilities cannot be only in Sofia and in Varna, and this is practically the case for many regions in the country. Until these medical personnel change their pay, because let's speak seriously with two minimum salaries for our lovely nurses, do you think that for this highly responsible and highly professional work you will satisfy them? They go with 3,000 euros in salary in Italy. That's not gonna happen, Minister! Resources must be found and the National Assembly must seriously consider the personnel insurance through financial provision of personnel in medicine, and not only in medicine, of course, because otherwise this deficit, this crisis will deepen, will continue and will not be over soon. Next, what my colleagues have pointed out before me, I will only repeat it: a methodology is needed to evaluate the work of all medical professionals. If it is not introduced, to rely on the fact that the hospital, through its turnover, will be able to provide their remuneration, in no case will it happen and will not lead to good practices. And last but not least, the things you said last year was the question of standards and good medical practice. Now we see that the deadline for adoption of the standards is being extended again to 2020, that is to say, there will be no new standards. There will be, but in 2020! How, then, will we be able to ensure the peace of these medical personnel so that they can exercise their profession?! All of this, I end here, reflects on the main health indicators in Bulgaria on mortality, on infant mortality, on early preventable death. If we do not change the problem of personnel deficit, these indicators will never be able to be changed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u117	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there lines? I won't. Dr. Jaffer, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I admit you have been able to minimize the House, but we have listened attentively to at least some of those present here. The fact is that there is a major problem in health care, the human resource problem, the human footage, the system footage, and this problem emerges as much more important than the problem of financing and the problem of equipment, for example. We can provide the most modern technique, we can apply the latest molecules for therapy, but if there is no one to work with this technique and who to write these therapies, it's all pointless. I listened carefully to your statement, you referred to a report by the European Commission. What we expect from you is to say what is the expected shortage of personnel in the next five, ten years for Bulgaria. The European Commission in its analysis estimates that the expected shortage of medical staff for 2020. Soon, in a few months, there will be 970,000 medical professionals for next year, of which 250 thousand doctors and about 500 nurses. You are aware that healthcare personnel like other sectors are moving towards pay. Colleagues from Eastern Europe are going to work in France and Germany. Colleagues from France and Germany are moving to work in Scandinavian countries, where they have higher pay than in their countries. From the Scandinavian countries go beyond the Ocean to Canada and the United States, where they receive an even higher payment. And this is a trend that cannot be overcome. Nevertheless, we expect the state to say what it will take as real steps. I will give you a few examples to illustrate to colleagues who are not medical professionals, what a deficit is in Bulgaria. To start with Shumen County. In a municipality of Varbitsa, a fellow Jeepi worked in the village of Byala Reka at the age of 84. Believe me, both Muslims and Christians pray that he is alive and well to continue treating them..................why. In Western Bulgaria, in Kyustendil from 480 doctors in the district, only 12 colleagues are under 35 years of age. In Sofia, an emergency assistance company is unable to complete its teams because it takes 30 teams to serve the population of Sofia normally, and manages to work with 18 teams. Should I give you the examples again with the so-called "bronaut syndrome" that syndrome has been victimized by the midwife who abused the newborn because she was forced to work in three places so that she could get a normal paycheck. Burnout synromic or professional burn syndrome in the system today is a daily routine for a very large group of medical professionals. Let me give you an example with Alexandrovska Hospital (Alexandrovska Hospital), a university hospital, in order not to say that the problem is only in Western Bulgaria or is in Northeastern or in Northwestern Bulgaria. At Alexandrovska Hospital, it turns out that there are clinics where two sisters leave each week for example and go to work in the West. And clinic managers can't tie their schedule for next month to ensure a normal workflow cycle, patient service. These are specific examples that prove that the problem is very, very serious. It is clear, however, that payment is not the main topic on which to work. We attended a discussion together with you in connection with the campaign of the "24 Hours" "The Doctors, whom the Bulgarians believe" and there the young colleagues said very strongly: "The financing is part of the problem, but the attitude of the society towards us, the work in the teams, the lack of enough well-meaning mentors and trainers, the lack of opportunity for professional realization is the bigger problem that causes people to go to other countries." It is not normal in Bulgaria to specialize more difficult than in Germany that is also a fact. In this sense, we welcome your efforts to change the Ordinance on Specializations. We repeatedly asked the question of blitz control: what is going on with this regulation? We were slightly discouraged by the fact that at the last blitz control you said you were doing an analysis of how the measures would possibly affect the specialization process. It is good that this regulation has already been published. We do not think that the intervention of the state when it has to intervene in order to overcome imbalances in the system is a bad thing. On the contrary, there is state regulation in the most developed countries, but there is also a balance of this regulation with market relations and with the free movement of people, funds and services. But think about how you implement paramedics, for example, in the system. University has already trained them, as well as medical assistants, and then perhaps you should consider intern nurses and other measures to influence the system. Thank you for your attention. We look forward to answering the questions with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u119	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. Are there lines? We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Klisarova. You have about three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! First of all, thank you for the in-depth serious speech that has shown us that care is being taken and thinking about how to provide the system with medical personnel. Something I didn't hear, and I wanted to hear about the role and location of the paramedics. There was no time, perhaps, for medical assistants and paramedics, for their role in small settlements and in emergency care. We may also have further discussions on what I thank you for. I thank my colleagues, who very precisely and clearly defined the problems and we see that we are unanimous. The human factor is the deciding factor in order to have health reform and to get better and quality education. Last but not least is education, which is why I would like to call on all my colleagues, as we are unanimous, as Dr Daritkova has also said, that our proposals for solutions are very close and united, so let us support our proposal and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u121	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I vote on the draft decision which was presented by the importers from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Vote 159 MPs: 66 against 9, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. I will put to the vote the draft decision by the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Rhodoljuknitsa, which was presented to you by the National Representative Krastina Taskova. Vote 162 MPs: 8 against 2, abstention 152. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote The draft decision of the parliamentary group of GERB was presented to us by the MP Daniela Daritkova. They voted 159 MPs: for 101, against 16, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. Mr. Apostolov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure to reduce the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports to four days. Colleagues, it is very important that we accept before the break at second reading the Bill, as it is very important that the children of the deceased medalists receive their premiums. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Mr. Minister, thank you for your participation today. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u124	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, this thing has been redacted twice. [[GERB lines.]] Twice, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u125	That's new.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u126	It's absolutely not new. It's the same thing. By analogy, Mr. Chairman, you remember last week I made such a proposal. You refused to vote me out. Therefore, do not allow such a proposal now. Take an example from your practice here from last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. This is a proposal on a procedural issue, not in the debates, so I have to put it to the vote. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please vote on the procedural proposal. Vote 155 MPs: 92 against 59, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Popov. Please, colleagues, stay where you are, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, you are absolutely breaking the rules! I can now make a proposal for five days, colleague, for six days, and so to recoil. In 20 days we can make a proposal one after the other, one after the other. Do you think that's normal? Read your rules. Follow the Rules of the National Assembly because it has the power of law. Do not allow the law to be violated here in the National Assembly. You, as chairman, are doing this constantly already systemically more than three or four times in several plenary days. Please cancel this vote. Otherwise, we are starting to make proposals right now. Here, I am now proposing to extend the period of 6 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u130	Please put it to the vote. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u131	Guys, stay where you are. We need to vote in full on a text that has been omitted. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u132	I've made a motion to vote for six days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u133	This is a proposal after a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u134	Then why did you allow the previous vote? On what grounds did you allow it? [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are standing around the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u135	I continue to read to you the draft decision to set up a temporary committee of inquiry [[(strong noise and lines from BSP for ……]] to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the drain case... If you don't take your seat... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u136	That's not how you do it. On what grounds did you allow the previous vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u137	Mr. Popov, at the moment you are inciting the MPs to disturb the order of the House. You personally lead the MPs... [[Replicates from the National Representative Philip Popov, away from the stands.]] I'll draw the rules, but please...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u138	That's not how you do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u139	I agree. I'm ready to discuss it at the Chairman's Council... [[Replications by the MPs in front of the stand: "There is no Presidential Council. "]] I'm ready to discuss with you...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u140	It's already passed the vote! What chairmanship council?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u141	Please listen to me! I'll interrupt after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u142	Please rest for 10 minutes to determine whether or not this vote should be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u143	I interrupt the work of the National Assembly for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u144	Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's move on. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. We'll continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Sawateva, are you going to continue the presentation of the texts? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We continue with § 8 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Heritage. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 177a Art. 177a. (1) For the issue of an authorisation under art. 177, para. 2 an application shall be submitted to the Minister of Culture, in writing or by electronic means, by a model according to the ordinance under art. 178. Where the application is submitted electronically, the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services shall be complied with and the documents shall be applied in the form of scanned copies signed by electronic signature. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall apply: 1. historical reference to the cultural value; 2. written consent of the owner, respectively of the director, of the museum; 3. specialized filming of the real cultural value, detailed photo-documentation and a project for the production of its copy or replica; 4. a description of the technological process of the development and manner of the implementation of the copy or replica of the cultural value. Art. 177b. (1) The Minister of Culture shall be established a Specialized Expert Council for the reproduction of cultural values of world and national importance and national wealth in copies or lines. (2) The structure and organisation of the work of the Council shall be determined by rules established by the Minister of Culture. Art. 177c. (1) The application under art. 177a, para. 1 with the documents attached to it shall be dealt with within 14 days of its entry by the Specialized Expert Council under art. 177b, para. 1. (2) Where the application and the documents attached thereto do not comply with the requirements, the applicant shall be notified in writing to remove irregularities or incompletes within 10 working days of the communication indicating that the proceedings will be terminated upon their termination. (3) The term under para. 1 start running after removal of irregularities or incompleteness. (4) In the event of non-alignment of irregularities or incompleteness within the term under para. 2 The proceedings under the application lodged shall be terminated. (5) After the examination of the submitted documents, the Specialized Expert Council under art. 177b, para. 1 draw up a reasoned opinion with a proposal to the Minister of Culture for the issue or refusal of authorisation. (6) Within one month of the submission of the application, the Minister of Culture shall grant a permit or, with a reasoned order, refuse its issue. (7) The authorisation shall be granted for a period of one year. (8) Where a procedure for the coordination of this law and the approval of a construction plan and/or an investment project under the Law on Construction in the Area is necessary before the start of the development, the time limit for the construction shall start from the date of issue of the building permit and shall correspond to the period under art. 153 of the same law. Art. 177. The Minister of Culture shall refuse authorisation where: 1. the applicant's request is contrary to the objectives of this law; 2. the request of the applicant for a copy does not meet the conditions of art. 174, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the request of the applicant for a reply does not meet the conditions of art. 175, para. 3; 4. there already exists the eligible number of copies of the relevant cultural property at the request of permission to produce a copy; 5. The production of a copy or replica will violate the conditions for maintaining the optimal regime for the preservation of the cultural value and/or may lead to its physical damage. Art. 177e. An authorisation issued shall be withdrawn by a reasoned order from the Minister of Culture in the event of detected violations of this law on a proposal from the Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Art. 177f. The acts referred to in art. 177c, para. Art. 6 and art. 177e are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 8, which shall become § 9. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u147	Proposal from the MPs Vejdi Rashidov and Stefan Danailov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 197 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words t. 1 is added for the property of a property of a category of value of importance of a local importance and for the declared real estates under art. 59, para. The words "six thousand to three thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand to ten thousand" and the words "six thousand to three hundred" shall be replaced by "six thousand to thirty thousand." 2. A new para is being created. 2: supposed to fulfil an obligation under art. 71, para. 1, t. 1 for real estate cultural value included in the Indicative list for the cultural and natural heritage of the Republic of Bulgaria or for real estate cultural property with category of world significance is punished with a fine of 15 000 to 30 000 BGN and a single trader and legal person is subject to a penalty of 25 000 to 50 000 BGN if the act does not constitute a crime. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. Three and four. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. One, two and three shall be replaced by one, and one, two and three, shall be replaced by one, two and three, and shall be replaced by one, two and three. 3 and 4
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u148	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u149	Proposal from the MPs Vejdi Rashidov and Stefan Danailov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 11 and § 12: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200a, para. 1 words up to 6,000 and the words up to 15 000 and the words up to 15 000 shall be replaced by the words up to 25 000 and up to 50 000. § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200b the words '800 to 2000' shall be replaced by '3000 to 6000'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 9, which shall become § 13. Proposal from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In § 4 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 3 is inserted. 7a: 7a. An event is an incident, an accident, an accident, an episode related to a precise time and place, and a documented historical significance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u150	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put it to a vote: a proposal from the Commission to create new paragraphs 11 and 12 with a text according to the Commission Report; a text by the importer for § 9, which becomes § 13; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with a text according to the Commission Report. Vote 126 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u151	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 10 which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 12 which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer of § 13, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u152	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote: a text of the importer on the name of the subdivision; a text of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 15; a text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 16; a text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 17, and a text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 18. They voted 132 MPs: 129, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u153	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 151, para. A sentence 2 is created second: The contracting authority shall provide a copy of the coherent design documentation in the respective municipal administration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u154	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 19 with a text according to the Commission Report and the importer's text for § 14, which shall become § 20. Vote 127 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Members of Parliament, I will propose to you for a vote a text which is related to the provisional committee of inquiry we have set up. I present to you the text for voting: "Project for a decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to clarify all the facts and circumstances surrounding the case of draining information from the electronic database of the National Revenue Agency." The people's representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs together with her staff, determined by voting in plenary. They voted 132 MPs: 128, with no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S WORK FOR PROTECTION OF THE 2018/CUREMENT Dear Mr. Kanev, you have the floor to present the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u155	Colleagues, I would like, firstly, access to this House to invite Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition, and Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u156	Please vote on the proposed admission. Ms. Nenkova is on her way, and she'll be in the hall any minute, so I'm going to ask the Quaestors to invite her when she gets to the couloir. They voted 120 MPs: 117, with no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u157	Thank you. Colleagues, I have one suggestion: because I have problems with the voice..... just this subsidy is hard to support anymore. [[noise, laughter]] And since I have shown who is the head of the Commission and who drives the SUV with us in our committee, I will ask my colleague Saveklieva to continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. That was a hell of a commercial you guys made. [[Noise and lines.]] REPORTER DANIELA SAVECLIEVA: Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Dear Madam President, colleagues, I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" under the 2018 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition, No 920-00-14 submitted by the Commission for Protection of Competition on 28 May 2019. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 17 July 2019 examined and discussed the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC), who presented the Annual Report for 2018, and Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Vice-President of the KPC. This report is submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the requirements of art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition (PCC). It reflects the results achieved, the main findings, conclusions and assessments for the work of the KPC during the reporting period, as well as the objectives set before it for the following year. In general, the KPC has the necessary resources and expertise to effectively protect competition by solving market problems. In this way, protection is also achieved for the interests of citizens, market participants and society as a whole. The 2018 Annual Report of the KPC sets out the Commission's priorities and objectives for 2018. A key priority in the work of the KPC in 2018 is to prevent the application of anticompetitive practices and to solve problems in the functioning of the market economy. By means of the responsible approach in carrying out its activities, the Commission shall demonstrate that it has the necessary experience and capacity to do so. In the field of antitrust proceedings, the main priorities were aimed at ensuring the promotion of free initiative in business, expanding efforts for competition with a view to increasing the well-being of consumers and society as a whole. The KPC carried out monitoring of significant and sensitive sectors of the economy for consumers and businesses, with the main focus being on e-commerce. In 2018, the Commission established three definitions by which it claimed infringement in the form of tender manipulations, which continued to combat this type of anticompetitive practices. In 2018, the KPC also had a special focus on sector analysis industries as the most in-depth and effective tool in the Commission's powers to analyse the competitive environment in an economic sector. As a result, four proceedings were initiated to conduct a sectoral analysis of the competitive environment of the electricity market, the media market, the market for the provision of banking services and the markets for the production and realization of petrol and diesel. In 2018, the most frequent infringements identified in the area of unfair competition were associated with unfair behaviour contrary to the general prohibition of unfair competition followed by imitation and misleading advertising infringements. The statistical activity of the KPC is as follows: In 2018, the KPC formed a total of 1120 proceedings, of which 132 under the Law on Protection of Competition (ZPC), 981 under the Public Procurement Act (ZIP) and 7 under the Law on concessions (ZK). In the period covered by the report, the definitions and decisions adopted by the Commission were in total 1423, i.e. by around 300 more than 2016 and the previous ones. During the reporting period, the Commission has completed the relevant LPC, ZPC or ZK proceedings, claimed infringement or imposed fines on natural persons for breach of the LPC or non-information committed by them, and the rest are the acts by which the KPC has pronounced itself in other matters of its competence. In 2018, the Commission improved very much the collection of property penalties and fines imposed by its decisions. The amount collected is 4 million. 398 thousand. BGN, which has more than five times more cash claims collected compared to the previous year 2017. In 2018, four proceedings have been initiated in the Commission, which have as their object the existence or absence of infringement under Chapter Three Forbidden Agreements, Decisions and concerted practices by the LPC, and 2 of which have been initiated on the basis of Commission decisions on the basis of art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of the FTC (on its own initiative) and the rest of them at the request of persons whose interests are affected or threatened by a breach of the FTC. In 2018, the KPC carried out a total of two on-the-spot checks of the same year. In 2018, the Commission issued five decisions on the application of Art. 1. 15 of the Law on the Protection of Competition in Procedure, which was formed between 2013 and 2017 In 2018, the number of decisions was lower compared to 2017, mainly due to the large number of proceedings in the previous years. In 2018, the definitions of alleged infringements for the same reason decreased, compared to 2017. In 2018, in relation to an on-the-spot check, the Commission imposed a penalty for failure to comply with the assistance obligation of 30 thousand. lv. In 2018, four proceedings were initiated with the purpose of establishing the existence or absence of infringements of a monopoly or dominant position which were initiated at the request of persons whose interests were affected or threatened by a breach of the LPC. Nine decisions have been made. Property sanctions and fines have been imposed on a decision of about 57 thousand. lv. In 2018, the KPC formed a total of 33 notifications and reasoned requests for authorisation of concentration between undertakings. The Commission has issued a total of 32 decisions on Chapter 5 of the LPC, with 21 decisions authorising a concentration between undertakings, prohibiting a concentration on two decisions, establishing on three decisions that the transaction does not constitute a concentration. During the reporting period, the KPC has established two definitions for the suspension of proceedings on the basis of art. 40, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition. In 2018, the KPC did not impose fines under art. 102 of the ZPC for Chapter Five of the ZPC. The Commission has assessed and decided solutions for the authorisation of concentration between undertakings in different economic sectors. The KPC shall be competent to control the concentrations with a national dimension and those reaching the thresholds under art. 1 of Council Regulation No 139/2004 on the control of concentrations between undertakings falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of the European Commission. In this respect, for the 2018 expired, the KPC carried out an analysis of the information contained in a total of 415 notifications and reasoned requests for concentration between undertakings. In 2018, with two decisions, the Commission adopted sectoral analyses of the competitive environment of the media market in the Republic of Bulgaria and the markets for food trade and fast-moving goods. In 2018, a total of 73 proceedings were initiated in the Commission aimed at establishing the existence or absence of infringements under Chapter 7 of the Competition Protection Act "Untrue Competition" 70 proceedings, and under Chapter.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 70 of them were formed at the request of persons whose interests were affected or threatened by a breach of the LPC, one on the basis of self-secution on the basis of signals submitted by citizens and as a result of their own market observations, and two files submitted by the VAC for a new pronouncement. By 29 decision-making decisions, the Commission has identified 44 infringements which constitute unfair competition and has imposed property penalties and/or fines under Chapter 7 and Chapter 7 of the R&R Guidelines in total of more than 2,6 million. lv. The most frequent infringements in the area of unfair competition established in 2018 are related to unfair behaviour contrary to the prohibition on unfair competition under Article 8. 29 of the Law on Protection of Competition, followed by unholy conduct, contrary to the prohibition of imitation under art. 35 of the ZPC and misleading advertising under art. 32, in conjunction with Art. 33 of the ZPC. In 2018, the KPC issued a total of 26 decisions, which is more than 15 decisions compared to 2017. These acts adopted opinions on projects or existing regulations or administrative acts and identified the existence or absence of conflict with competition rules. In 2018, 1420 complaints were lodged in the KPC, 98 more than in 2017. On 418 complaints was issued by the President of the KPC, with which proceedings were refused on the grounds of art. 201, para. 1 of the ZOP. Due to an unsubscribed state fee, an order for refusal of 223 complaints has been issued and 54 complaints have been withdrawn. The total issued acts under the Law of the European Union are 1251 pieces. In 2018, a total of 93 complaints were submitted to the SAC against decisions issued by the KPC and definitions. The CCC has issued a total of 45 appeals and 37 acts remain in force, four acts of the CPC have been partially repealed, four acts have been definitively repealed to a three-member Chamber. You have made a final decision with 39 decisions and definitions, leaving the acts of the KPC in force, partially repealing 6 acts and completely repealing 5 acts of the KPC. People's representatives Zhelyo Boychev and Petar Kanev raised questions regarding the lack of recommendations in the decisions issued by the KPC; the absence of information on the effect of the proceedings and analyses of the KPC; about the different speed in the individual proceedings; about the protection of the interests of small producers in relations with the retail chains. National Representative Dimitar Boychev raised the question of the time limits for conducting the sectoral analyses. The questions were answered by Julia Nenkova and Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev. After a vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to take the following decision: Project! DECISION: on the 2018 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in relation to art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-25.u159	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. You have a say in this? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I vote on the draft decision which Mrs. Saveklieva has just read for adoption of the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2018. They voted 120 MPs: 92, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Messages of parliamentary control: 1. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from MP Georgi Gokov. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer 14 questions from the MPs Ahmed Ahmed, Lyubomir Bonev, Sevim Ali, Georgi Yordanov, Kolyo Milev, Alexander Nenkov and Alexander Ivanov, two questions; Kristian Vigenin, two questions; Milen Mihov, Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Jankov, Pavel Shopov, Dimitar Georgiev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 3. The Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; 4. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer nine questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Dzhevdet Chakarov two questions, Kolyo Milev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Atanas Kostadinov and Ilian Timchev; Valentina Naydenova two questions, and Georgi Gokov. 5. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer seven questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, two questions; Vasil Antonov, Rumen Georgiev, Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov, Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova, and Kristina Sidorova, and one question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin. 6. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. 7. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the MP Boris Yachev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, one question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - three questions from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; - a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Interior Minister Mladen Marinov and Culture Minister Boyl Banov will not participate. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will not participate. On the occasion of a pre-planned commitment, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. Due to prior commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. That's the end of today's plenary day. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
