ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I will present to you the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 2 to 4 October 2019: "1." Proposal under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 5 September 2019 There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms. 2. Proposal under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of.. United Patriarchs................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importers: Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 12 April 2019 There is no proposal made by the parliamentary group of Volya. No proposal has been made by the political party GERB's parliamentary group. 3. A bill to denounce the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, in particular football meetings and to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events. Importer: Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Air Cleanliness. Importer: Council of Ministers on 23 July 2019. Adopted at first vote on 12 September 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 3 October 2019 5. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. Adopted at first vote on 18 September 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 3 October 2019 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Coproduction (revised) 30 January 2017, Rotterdam. Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 September 2019 Point 1 for Friday, 4 October 2019 7. Parliamentary control after the end of the legislative part for Friday, 4 October 2019 Please vote on the National Assembly Work Programme. Vote 152 MPs: 138, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. In the manner of conduct, come in, Mr. Shopov. I haven't gotten to the point yet, but you have the right to rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u2	There is a reason, Mr. Chairman, and the reason is very substantial. The second month continues this speculation, which is being made both in plenary and in the Bulgarian National Assembly in general, to talk about one of the entities that make up the present National Assembly as political power and parliamentary group. As long as you continue to speculate and lie to the public by the leadership and here the participants that there is a parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." There is no such parliamentary group. Such political power in the Forty-fourth National Assembly does not exist from any legal point of view according to our rules and according to art. 16 of the coalition agreement with which such an election coalition was established and then a parliamentary group. We have sent two letters, based on all the rules, to the National Assembly's leadership to decide on this matter. Reply so far, for the second month, there is no and continues the lie that this group has its representatives in committees and in the management of the National Assembly. Some people participate in the Chairmanship Council, which is a very important body in the work of each National Assembly. Let us finally clarify the problem that we have put in place, because at the moment it is not about seven independent MPs of Ataka. It concerns independent MPs, all those who were members of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u4	Finally, let us have an answer on this very important issue, on which we at the attack believe that we have argued and at least an explanation is due to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u5	You'll get it. Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I will introduce you to the following drafts and resolutions for the period from 25 September to 1 October 2019: Draft decision to impose a moratorium on all actions of a disposal of immovable property, private government property. Importer is the national representative Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Environment and Water. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. A draft resolution for a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Culture and Media. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. Draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. Draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The representatives of the National Assembly are Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov. A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. The representatives of the National Assembly are Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Tzipov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A notification has been received: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the draft Law on amendment and supplement to the Law on People's Chitalishtes, No 954 01 54. Message: Yesterday, on 1 October 2019, was received and sent to the MPs a General Draft of the bills for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted on the first vote on 25 September 2019. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by order of the Chief of Defence, it is permitted to send a formation of soldiers from the Land Forces with personal weapons and equipment, without ammunition and equipment, to participate in a tactical exercise, which will take place in an area east of the town of Brasov, Romania, for the time from 4 to 18 October 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 1 October 2019 with entry No 902-09-64 and was made available to the Defence Committee. An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2019 has been received by the Court of Auditors. The programme was submitted by letter No 924-00-15, by the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: Gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2019; Labour productivity, employed persons and time spent for the second quarter of 2019; R & D indexes in the Section of Retail, without car and motorcycle trading in July 2019; Industrial Production Indexes in July 2019; Construction Production Indexes in July 2019; Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes in August 2019; Indexes of producer prices in the domestic and international market in the industry for August 2019; Industrial Conjuncture for the month of September 2019. The materials are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Procedure. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the time limit for proposals between the first and second reading of the General Law on the supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 953-01-68, to be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u7	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 154 MPs: for 153, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We shall begin with the proposal for inclusion in the agenda in accordance with art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLIANCE THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. First is the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to present.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present the reasons for the Draft Decision supplementing the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. With the project we propose to strengthen parliamentary control by restoring the so-called blitzcontrol. In essence, this is an obligation of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers to appear once a month before the National Assembly and to answer the questions of the Members of the National Assembly. As is known, this form of parliamentary control existed before in the Forty-two and forty-third National Assembly. You are well aware of its effectiveness because, when the current majority was required to be in opposition, it was widely taken advantage of this opportunity. Specifically, we propose that in the last two hours of the meeting of each first Wednesday of the month the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers will appear to answer the current questions of the MPs. The questions concern the general policy of the government and cannot contain requests for detailed numerical data. In cases where the Prime Minister or his alternates cannot appear in the Chamber for respectable reasons, the President of the National Assembly shall, in dialogue with them, set the most recent date to which they shall respond to the questions asked. This form of parliamentary control existing in the previous two editions of the National Assembly was undoubtedly one of the achievements of Bulgarian parliamentary democracy. She emerged from the practice as opposed to a clear clear trend of retreat from parliamentaryism and passing on a more uniform, i.e. a more authoritarian prime minister type of government. Therefore, when it was cancelled at the beginning of this term, this sparked criticism and controversy. Let's go back to the debate we had two and a half years ago and see if the motives for the cancellation of the blitzcontrol were correct. The main motive was that the Prime Minister could be asked questions within the framework of regular parliamentary control anyway. Unfortunately, that motive was untenable. The practice is quite eloquent by allocating different portfolios and strictly guarded by the various parliamentary presidencies, the Prime Minister has only appeared several times in the National Assembly since the beginning of the term. In fact, there is a paradox in the public opinion that the Prime Minister decides everything. At the same time, before the National Assembly he is not responsible for anything at all. It is not within his competence, contact another minister and that is the answer we receive to all our questions. Another of the arguments for change and cancellation of the blitzcontrol deserves attention. This argument was about the following: there are journalists everywhere anyway, and it is very public and transparent, everyone can ask anyone anything, any minister, and even the Prime Minister. I'm not going to say if that was the case at the time of the cancellation, but things have been seriously worse since then. We have seen strange practices at a press conference without press, at a briefing in front of unscrewed microphones and lately the removal of journalists precisely because they are asking questions to the Prime Minister and the executive. Since we are talking about questioning and searching for answers when making this decision, we must also take into account the overall media environment. It is true and you know it that many of the private media have dedicated themselves to frank, sometimes bordering on absurd pro-government propaganda. Moreover, they violently attack anyone who dares to put an uncomfortable issue for the government, whether he is an opposition MP, a candidate for an election post or even their fellow journalist from another media. As for public radio and television, they are in an unprecedented crisis. The first was put under strong pressure, for which, by the way, there is also a parliamentary committee, and the second is about to lose all credibility. Bliccontrol and parliamentary control cannot and should not try to replace independent journalism, but we must realise that at a time like today's MPs have a special responsibility not to let the government avoid any important issue for citizens. This is actually the core of constitutionally established parliamentary control. In a situation where it is increasingly difficult for people to receive quality information, i.e. real information from the media, direct dialogue between opposition and power, the direct answer to direct questions here from this high tribune, is of particular importance. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the restoration of the mechanism of the so-called blitzcontrol will contribute to a better performance by the parliament of its external control function. It will also create a direct channel of communication between the government, the opposition and the citizens, without piari and without powdered publications. And if you have anything to brag about, do it. But if you reject our proposal, it will be clear proof that you have little to show and much to hide. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u10	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members, it is strange that on such an important issue concerning the main functions of the MPs in a parliamentary republic, in addition to legislative, you know that the other main function is the control function, namely to control the executive power there is no debate. This shows an attitude towards the work and activities of the National Assembly, and perhaps that is why the rating of the same, unfortunately, has been at the bottom for years now. We live in a parliamentary republic, honourable MPs! And here in Parliament, the main state policy issues are being resolved, not in the executive power. There is no logic in committees to come in the ministers, but here, with greater publicity, in transparency, in the absence of this conflicted link and the direct link between opposition, as my colleague Zarkov, the ruling majority and the Bulgarian citizens said to hide the Prime Minister. It is impossible for the Prime Minister, the honourable Members, to have been in the National Assembly only a few times. We live in dynamic times both internally and internationally. At least this requires that the so-called blitzcontrol be restored. It existed, played its role and has its future, but it is up to you. There is such control in other European countries as well. The question is whether we will learn from them or remain again at the level of hiding executive power and turning parliament into one rubber seal of the same. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have made a revolution with the slogans for more transparency. What transparency? There are ministers we haven't seen here in months. The Blitzcontrol was a wonderful form of control, one of the main functions that parliament has on both Constitution and Rules of Procedure. I understand that the opposition is the most and do so to get used to the Prime Minister himself more often, and the government does not agree and will put resistance on the issue so that Boyko Borisov is not called here often and no questions are asked. We from the Ataka will not rule on this issue. This is not the most important issue in connection with blitzcontrol. The question is here, on this platform, to come and answer questions of self-preservation ministers and deputy prime ministers, who have also not been here for months and have not been responsible for the outrage they do with large-scale real estate deals by turning their offices into real estate agencies. The day before yesterday, from Ataka, on Friday, the curtain on the issue of the so-called Strategy for the Child finally opened, I do not know what it was called after months of discontent, after months of protests by Bulgarians on this topic. People didn't know exactly what they were protesting about, there was something they said. For years nothing is being done in whole guidelines and areas such as demographics, income issues, Gypsy crime, where there is now some famous strategy, to move away the problem and to start as if from now on we have made the strategy, from now on we will fight for the complete fiasco, the total collapse of the issue of Gypsy crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u13	Mr. Shopov, please, a little closer to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u14	Here should come and answer the Deputy Prime Minister on this issue and on this subject. That is why we at Ataka are here to accept and return the blitzcontrol as a means of controlling the government, on the work of the ministers, and we will vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u16	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, from this platform many times the Bulgarian Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov stated that he would come whenever he was kindly invited. In response to questions that we have repeatedly asked, he or his administration has redirected them to other ministers or deputy prime ministers. Since such an official invitation under the Rules of Procedure for the organization and activities of the National Assembly, namely through a question addressed, he does not accept it as polite, we believe that it is a kind invitation to be written in these Rules to restore the blitzcontrol and to come and answer questions. Moreover, I remind the National Assembly that the fact, Mr. Shopov said just now that he understands the opposition, which wants the Bulgarian prime minister to answer questions. However, at the moment, the opposition was ruling when it introduced this blitzcontrol for its own prime minister. So there's nothing wrong with that now. And this, honourable Members, that you are hiding the Prime Minister, is clear to everyone, because, if you remember, with the adoption of the Rules of Organization and the activities of the National Assembly of this Forty-fourth National Assembly, you voted, except that there would be no blitzcontrol, there would be no broadcast of the debates on the main channel of public television. And this is confirmation that you are hiding the Bulgarian Prime Minister. Therefore, in order to have this transparency that we are talking about, to bear the responsibility and to meet the people and the tasks that it has, the most normal way is to restore this blitzcontrol and make it appear and respond. Moreover, the questions addressed to him are of paramount importance here. Nobody calls him for plumbing or sewers, as I recall. The presence of the Bulgarian Prime Minister is important. But there is something else that I think is relevant on this issue, and perhaps that is why you do not call for it, namely the fact that every time Boyko Metodiev Borisov comes and stands here on this platform, he tells you what to do in front of the entire Bulgarian people, how to vote for something he does both from his office and through text messages and via mobiles. This is clear, but you get a little uncomfortable when you come here, stand and tell you in front of the whole Bulgarian people what to do. And you do, even though you were against him, say, just an hour ago. That's why you're embarrassed. Answer to the height of the institution National Assembly and vote to restore blitzcontrol. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! The first thing I want to say to you: don't think we want to see the Prime Minister here every month because we enjoy listening to him with his lies and his deceptions...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u19	Mr. Ermenkov, please don't force me...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u20	...sorry, with his speakers. You're right, you're right, Mr. Chairman! I agree, the word lies I will take back with telling the truth not always. So this is not our desire to be happy with his presence here. The only thing we want is for parliamentaryism to prevail in Bulgaria. Because it is a parliamentary republic, it is parliament that elects the government, and it is the government that must be accountable to parliament head with the President of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, this isn't happening. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria makes us happy with his presence here only and only when he can say a few words of praise about himself, only when he thinks he can humiliate us in some way, being directly giving instructions to the ruling majority what to do, although he was not willing to do it before, being by making unjustified accusations to the opposition. In any of the cases where written questions are addressed to him relating to serious problems in the field of social policy, energy, ecology, economics, issues which were of his competence as President of the Council of Ministers, who coordinates, informs the policy of this government, he has not volunteered to come here. Always redirecting questions to someone who most probably should be lipsticked because of him and in the field of energy has been so not once, both in the field of ecology and in the field of social policy, that is, there is not a single area if you look at the issue for which he feels competent and come here. In my opinion, this is either a manifestation of incompetence, i.e. fear of manifesting this incompetence in front of parliament, or once again is an attempt to show that parliament is nothing to him that he is feeling allergy by entering this building. By the way, when he was also chairman of GERB's parliamentary group in opposition, we hardly saw him present here. [[GERB lines.]] For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to return that practice that was in 2013 "2014." Notice, then, despite the protests that were not done without your help outside the parliament, the prime minister came here and answered without fear that there were protests outside without fear of being attacked for his policies inside the parliamentary hall. Because it was a worthy prime minister who was in charge of government policy. This one, unfortunately, doesn't. This one is now transferring responsibility to his ministers to always come out white against the background of their mistakes, not to say in what color. Please let us restore parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. Let us make sure that at least once a month the Prime Minister feels and is obliged to come and answer uncomfortable questions rather than those questions that make him pay, let me not say paid, but helpful journalists and helpful colleagues. Once again, I call on you to vote for this decision, because this will show that we are parliamentarians and put Parliament and the interests of Bulgaria above all else. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u21	Mr. Ermenkov, you started your speech in an unacceptable way! Just less than an hour ago at the Conference of Presidents, we discussed and came to the unanimous conclusion that statements aimed at dignity which in some way violated the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u22	I apologized.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u23	Yeah, I understand, I'm just paying attention, so I'm not applying anything. Mr. Popov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u24	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Ermenkov, you have said several times that the Prime Minister has redirected his questions and transferred responsibility to another minister. You are essentially right, but it is practically the President of the National Assembly who filtered the questions to the respective minister, of course, to the Prime Minister. But it is this feeling that we are fighting and introducing the change in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. In any parliamentary republic it is unacceptable, in this case Bulgaria, of any Prime Minister, Parliament to be its administration. It's unacceptable! Because Parliament is a supreme authority in a parliamentary republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there another line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u26	You are right, Mr. Popov, with the fact that I neglected to mention this fact, but I would just like to point out that there is hardly one naive person in this House who believes that the President of the National Assembly before returning the relevant question or diverting it, has not called the Prime Minister to ask him: "Well, should I drop the question, or should I not release it to you?"
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u27	Now you are once again entering a hypothesis, Mr. Ermenkov, to the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u28	What did I say offensively?! I asked if there was anyone here... Believe me, I am convinced that there is no...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u29	You're right, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u30	No, I'm commenting on my own opinion and you can't deprive me of that right here. Second thing I want to say to you. It is indeed unacceptable to have such a filtration of the questions by the President of the National Assembly, but this is no longer an suggestion. What do you expect when the prime minister with a visit to parliament replaces the Presidents of the National Assembly?! It also makes perfect sense to filter the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have a feeling that we have done all the work in the country, we have free time, and now we have some pointless debate where we have to run a topic in which I think it is absolutely frivolous and I will tell you why. Firstly, the prime minister, as you all know, loves the media, the media loves him, and he gives us the most detailed information on all the ill-gotten topics on which we need to hear his opinion. [[Laughter]] By the way, I meant it absolutely seriously if someone didn't understand it. Secondly, if today there is a vicious topic on which we should hear the Prime Minister, but we voted him to speak to us on the 27th, we will wait for the end of the month for him to give us some review, the subject to go away and make no sense?! From the experience we have, in any case, where the Prime Minister has had to speak to the National Assembly on really important topics, I think that this has happened with our decision and he has arrived immediately. Thirdly, imagine that you decide to leave parliament again for a few months and to be absent from parliament. Then don't leave it on our shoulders, on my and my associates' shoulders, to the heavy task of sitting here alone as opposition to test and listen to the Prime Minister. [[Sighs:?!]] I would ask you to take this seriously, to cut the pointless debate in principle, and not to support this decision. Otherwise, in any case, in which case there is a vicious topic, you can count on us to support the Prime Minister to come and inform us if this is really so important to the state. You see, people collect caps to fix health care. Tomorrow we're picking up plastic bags for education, and right now we're dealing with meaningless bickering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Prime Minister's hearing is one thing, I would say, of the key characteristics of parliamentary democracy and, by the way, is something that happens in the parliaments of European countries all the time or at least in those where democracy is involved. I cannot imagine that, for example, in the English Parliament, the prime minister will not appear for a hearing on any issues more than two or three months, as is happening in Bulgaria, and not to mention that there may be longer periods of lack of the prime minister in parliament. Why is it there and not here? Well, because they have developed parliamentary democracy there, they are not parliamentary democracy, but they have developed democracy, and Parliament works properly and does what it should do in this case, which is trying to somehow control the Prime Minister. This, of course, happens with many other countries and never, and in no way happens in Bulgaria. For me the important thing is why is it not happening in Bulgaria? And my most frank conclusion, which I have been trying to monitor and look for a way out as a politician in this country over the last few months, is that we have very difficult problems with parliamentary democracy. The fact that we have problems with parliamentary democracy is not, in my opinion, a secret to anyone in this House or outside it. The problems of our parliamentary democracy lie all the time, in my opinion, to a very large extent, to the fact that the Constitution, as we have it, is, in my opinion, good, according to others, bad, in practice does not work and is not implemented in its key parts. In a normally functioning parliamentary democracy, where laws and the Constitution matter, there is no way that a person who has declared himself and who obviously does not understand the separation of powers is running for chief prosecutor. There is no way in a functioning public mechanism where parliamentary democracy really works. There is no way for the Prime Minister to direct all public mechanisms through the TV, in front of everyone, breaking the Constitution in practice, because there is a parliament and we are a parliamentary republic or a republic with parliamentary rule, but not in Parliament decisions are made. And you, the majority of times here, have changed your decisions after coming or after the call of the Prime Minister, with which all of us, but mainly the right part of the Chamber, i.e. the GERB Group, are changing in practice the meaning of our democracy as it is written in the Constitution. And I don't believe any of you can deny it, because these are facts that we all know and all Bulgarians know. So do we have problems with the fact that the constitutional records of parliamentary democracy in Bulgaria do not work? In my opinion, we have it clearly, and no one can say otherwise. Can we, by calling a mandatory one-month premiere to the National Assembly, somehow fix this huge problem, in my opinion, for the work of our Constitution, our society and our parliamentary democracy? I don't think we can fix it entirely, but we can take a step in the right direction. Thinking in recent months how society can be taken out of the heavy institutional hole in which it is located, I have come to the conclusion that it is quite simply enough for the Constitution to work as it is written. It is quite enough for Parliament to take its place where it belongs, for the government to become controlled by parliament, because Parliament is elected because that is what it says in the Constitution and because it is the form of government that our people, by all legal means, have chosen. And when we do all this, when the institutions finally come to their place with the Attorney General, who, of course, needs to know that the separation of authorities has and this is his key function, but not only because there are problems here with the judiciary, the prosecution. In other words, all the authorities in the state are currently not fully responsible or subject to dependencies which are unacceptable to parliamentary democracy. And this all starts from this hall, and more precisely starts from this part of the hall where the group of GERB stands! I regret to say this directly, colleagues, without any desire to be echidical or aggressive, but for me, Bulgarian democracy has always had problems in the last 30 years and has never been developed! I associate the most severe distortions of democracy and parliamentary democracy with the management of GERB and personally of Boyko Borisov. He's the man who, from breaking the Constitution in practice, made the norm! This is normal right now, it happens all the time and it's not even news anymore! Once again, the Prime Minister has been called that you have to do something and you are beginning to do it. But this is a violation of the Constitution! The order is the opposite. If we put order in its correct order and if the decisions start to be made where they should be taken, on behalf of the people and in the interests of the people as we have sworn, things in the state will not look the same. The question of today's point of view, Mr. Mareshki, is not a waste of time at all! It is a fundamental issue of democracy! And if anyone in this room doesn't understand it, there's no room in this room, and I apologize for being a little rude. So, colleagues, what we are looking at today is a question of how Bulgarian democracy will continue to work. I have no doubt how GERB will vote. I tell you that for the past 10 years I have been connecting the defects of democracy with your parliamentary group and personally with Boyko Borisov. And I have every reason for that, without doubt that you will now again support it for the same reason that you have done it many times before. This is the collapse of our democracy, this is the collapse of parliamentaryism in your face! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u35	A line? Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u36	Dear Mr. Kutev, in my speech I warned you not to fall into this "Boiko Borisov," so Boyko Borisov. As if because of Boyko Borisov this useful otherwise blitzcontrol should be made. Here it is that behind the wide back of Boyko Borisov there are others with even wider backs and whirling. They're really going around.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u37	Who?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u38	To come here to answer what is going on at the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, for the passports that were being paid for [[DPS line: "For the fence. "]] , to answer such questions. They're really hiding because if it was the blitzcontrol, you know, usually the deputy prime ministers come here and they answer the questions, including the commissions for the fighters, I would go on this list forever. Therefore, it will be useful, and I say this to GERB, to introduce the blitzcontrol and to come here to answer those who must respond, and not all wines to be thrown at the Prime Minister by presumption, who in the vast majority of cases has no fault and is not his job to answer! There are others who under the Constitution have been appointed and are empowered to answer all these questions. Blitzcontrol is not about being beaten by the Prime Minister, to be constantly blamed. I am sure that if the Prime Minister himself realises the complexity of the problem and the opportunities provided by the blitzcontrol [[the President signals that time has run out]] He himself will agree to be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kutev, you said this was a matter of principle. And that's because when it comes to principle and principle, defending one, it attracts consistency, predictability and ultimately trust. However, the question is also: why, then, did a large part of the colleagues from GERB who were here in the Forty-second National Assembly, with the chairman of the parliamentary group Mr. Borisov, when we submitted to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the so-called blitzcontrol, supported him as an opposition?! But now, as governors, it seems to them that the matter does not stand at all in principle. Otherwise, you are right that this is a principled issue and essential in a parliamentary republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u41	Thank you. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u42	Dear Mr. Popov, the entire parliamentary history of humanity is linked to a struggle in which some forces in society win some democratic benefits in one way or another. The last 200 years of human history pass through this struggle. It has a pattern.. extremely difficult to make some democratic breakthroughs and extremely easy then they break down. Despite everything, democratic breakthroughs still win. The fact that there once was blitzcontrol, yes, you are right, introduced on our initiative then and voted by the opposition with joy was one of these breakthroughs because there was another governance that you thought otherwise. At the moment, this is a step backwards. It was taken two years ago when the blitzcontrol was removed. There'll be blitz control again. There is no democratic breakthrough which, in the course of today's history, of the current history of the world has not finally won. It will not be with this majority obviously, and it will bear the results of this. However, the fact is that the resistance to democratic breakthroughs is huge, conservative and it is present in the Chamber. And otherwise for Mr Shopov and for the responsibilities of the Prime Minister, who, you see, it wasn't his job, no, no, Mr Shopov, it wasn't. What's none of his business? The planes are none of his business?! I apologize, but in the Rules of the Council of Ministers this time, Mr. Borisov, who is the third prime minister, has tricked me, I apologize for the expression I use, the only responsibility he has written to answer for is security. For everything else, see, the other ministers are responsible for security only according to the Council of Ministers' regulations! And every time you put a question, it's probably Cornelia Nino and I are the people we've called the most and managed to bring Borisov into control. I know very well how to overcome the steps so that this work can be done. It's very clever of you to write your own security, and that's the only realm you're responsible for! No, he's in charge of everything, including at least the ten that I mentioned already, the case where the majority decided not to list them, that I didn't have time, he made a phone call and told them to vote otherwise! Then what were you responsible for by returning the bills to the parliamentary group, which voted accordingly? What were you in charge of when he said he was gonna call them to vote on the radio?! Is that within his authority, or does someone else have to answer for it?! Why is he speaking about him in your logic? Because it is in his power and because he deals with everything; because he rules the state sole, which contradicts the Bulgarian Constitution! Anything else that you're getting out of, because, truely, you've been in power with them so far, and now you're not, I understand that logic. I don't want to say anything. This is your position. But I couldn't agree with her! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. That is, Mr. Borisov is the person who is responsible for everything in this country because he is a prime minister, by his own decision in the sense: he responds by his own decision, because he behaves like a person who depends on everything. Well, let's take responsibility officially.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! An interesting topic has opened up, in general terms, to the crisis in Bulgarian parliamentary democracy. I would hardly have taken the floor, but lately there are quite controversial signals about the state of parliamentary democracy by the Bulgarian Socialist Party colleagues themselves. For a long time the thesis was developed that we in parliament are notary, who only stamp when Borisov sent the order. It turns out, however, that if we hear the candidate for mayor of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the bright star of Bulgarian socialism in the last 30 years, Mrs. Manolova, that we are not a notary or press. She admits that it wasn't Mr. Borisov who put her as Ombudsman, but we in Parliament. Well, what greater pluralism, what greater democracy, all together "Another song today to eclipse," have we chosen Mrs. Maya Manolova as Ombudsman?! So we're not a notary! [[Applause from GERB.]] We can't be a notary when we put red people on top, but we can be a notary when we choose someone else. Here are the double standards. Secondly, as a major problem of the Bulgarian parliamentary democracy, I think that we do not respect the voice of the people and God, direct democracy. For now, humanity, at least I have been a constitutional judge appointed by President Zhelev, knows nothing higher than direct democracy. Well, two and a half million Bulgarians asked this parliament, the next parliaments to choose a majority voice popular, a voice God! We had this debate. The first bill that we submitted was this one, and you rejected it. Only Vesko Mareshki worships the Volya party, I have always said that you are very intelligent, you have complied with this popular vote. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]] But here you promised to all of us, and we are the MPs of all Bulgarians I am elected by Sofia, yesterday I was in Teteven. People welcomed me as theirs, you said you would submit a bill for a mixed electoral system. Even President Radev, whom I respect, had mentioned in his election programme for a mixed system. This bill hasn't been tabled yet. The months will pass, the local elections will pass, Christmas will come and we will wake up in the election year! When are you gonna bring it in? This law is fair, it appeases the shortcomings and advantages of the proportional and the majority system, let us be 120 to 120, partially satisfied the Bulgarian voters. Thirdly, you say that our parliamentary democracy is in crisis. And it was a parliamentary agony when you left parliament. It was a mistake, a big mistake for Bulgarian parliamentary democracy. I was involved in Parliament's leaving. There was a great cause then and the Bulgarian voters in 1991 gave us two million votes. As you can see, you have lost eight parliamentary elections in a row. Whether we are a good parliamentary democracy and whether it is good Borisov, or not decides only one "Sovereign," and this is what the results of the elections show. There is no one in Europe other than Viktor Orban and Angela Merkel who has defeated eight times in a row four parliamentary and four European elections. Finally, I take a thought from the speeches of colleagues from the BSP "We have a crisis in parliamentary democracy and there is also a crisis in the judiciary. The biggest disgrace is what happened to the release of a murderer by letter of a non-governmental organization. It's like we're in the years after September 9th and the O.F. gives notes of reliability or hopelessness on this one or that one! [[Applause from GERB.]] Bulgarian NGOs under art. 12 of the Bulgarian Constitution cannot engage in political activity, and they perform political activity very often with money outside and replace the main character of parliamentary democracy! Yes, we are parliamentary democracy, we broadcast and control the government. We're not a state of non-governmental rule! The Helsinki Committee of Soros cannot give notes to the Bulgarian court and release murderers is outrageous, this is a major crisis of the third power! It is worth it here after the local elections, because we are now in a pre-election situation, to make a big debate and to have consensus on this issue. Viktor Orban said to Brussels: "Pick up your political activists, pick up your NGOs, leave us alone." We are a sovereign state. We will not allow NGOs to say where to have a lift! Tomorrow, they may decide that there will be no hall, which GERB did, and you didn't! Tomorrow they may decide to shut down Vitosha Boulevard, which we did, and you didn't! There's no subway to babysit again on bus 84! Is this parliamentary democracy?! This is Bulgaria's big problem that NGOs, which are not elected, are carrying out activities that the Bulgarian Constitution does not allow them! Finally, for Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. This person has great sensitivity to the Bulgarian opposition. Personally, as MP, I was impressed by Mrs. Nino's phone call with Mr. Borisov. Mrs. Ninova was right then when the Budget Act and I messed up things for the cancer patients. The opposition chief telephoned Cornella Ninova, whom I respect because she is against the Istanbul Convention and the UN Migration Pact, calling the prime minister, he corrected! Well, that's democracy. In which other country do the prime minister and leader of opposition get along so well?! [[Radio, applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u45	Do you have a line, Mr. Zablyanov? You have the floor. Second line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Markov, it is difficult to make a replica of this speech. I will try to focus on a few points. The first is your finding that the most perfect thing was direct democracy. At least I don't know a political regime where there is a direct democracy at the moment. There are forms of direct democracy. Everywhere democracy is representative democracy and I suppose you have made a mistake in the language. The second aspect of your speech, which affected the state of democracy in Bulgaria, I believe that today's debate has exceeded our proposal for a change in the Rules of the National Assembly. We do not have the claim that with the blitzcontrol in the National Assembly we will improve some original shortcomings of our political and constitutional structure because there are. We simply insist on restoring a parliamentary procedure that functioned, which proved to be effective, proved its flexibility. We have not emphasised that this procedure is directed against the Prime Minister. There is no such thing here I share much of the arguments in Mr. Shopov's debate. Yes, it is a parliamentary procedure that extends parliamentary control possibilities. Nothing more. As for the state of democracy, it is not only focused in parliament nor in the original principle of separation of powers. Its purpose is, above all, to guarantee the rights of the citizens, the political, social and others provided for in the Constitution and a number of international documents. This is the fundamental question of democracy in Bulgaria: to what extent are the rights of Bulgarian citizens through the laws that we adopt here, the activities of Bulgarian law enforcement and law enforcement institutions, the executive power, protected? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's the assessment criteria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u47	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u48	I think he's very clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u49	Time for a line...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u50	And to finally tell you, you may have forgotten, apart from bus number 84, there was a fast number 284 bus to the airport that drove for almost the same time as the subway. [[Noise, lines, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u52	Dear Mr. Markov, to me your speech is key, as you are not a random person. You are a man who, as I recall, was a great MP, i.e. from the people who created this Constitution. By the way, you personally, as I recall, voted against it. The fact that after you voted against her and then became a constitutional judge to protect her, I leave it to your conscience. It's your personal choice. From there on, the arguments you are putting against the background of this variable attitude to the Constitution, because I have really tried to raise a principled issue of constitutional and parliamentary democracy, it is principled, and the arguments you have expressed today are consistent with your attitude towards the Constitution. Because what I understand from your statement is that the opposition, you see, is guilty of some... Yes, there are some problems with parliamentary democracy, but two of the arguments were about how the opposition prevents you from respecting parliamentary democracy. Says you, the former constitutional judge and the man who voted against the Constitution, who then defended. [[Noise and lines.]] The other reason for these deformities was Maya Manolova, who is actually a candidate for mayor, also an opposition man. There was also some engio involved, which turned out to hinder parliamentary democracy in Bulgaria. I apologize, Mr. Markov, with all due respect to you, you have long political experience, but for me this is part of the problem. I am not saying that you are part of the problem, but this way of thinking, in which any thesis can be turned against the conjuncture, which is now convenient, is a problem because this allows, allows for the conversion of parliamentary democracy! The indulgence, the lack of... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. The lack of character, the lack of resistance, the lack of responsibility, the personal responsibility for what we do, this is what leads to the result that this country is in. And this is a problem of the political class, regardless of which party it was from in parliament, because you were from other parties as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Third line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Markov, you talked about the majority system, about Maya Manolova, about our absence from parliament, about direct democracy, about the non-governmental sector, about bus No 84, but not a word about the blitzcontrol we offer. There are enough MPs here whose sole purpose is to prevent any debate from taking place on the ground. There are MPs here to prevent parliament from debating. I always believed you weren't one of them. I know what your views are. I do not share many of them, but as Voltaire said: I am ready for anything to have the right to say them. And so let's take advantage of your expertise, your constitutional experience. Tell us: is it good for parliamentaryism and for the constitutionally established control function to exist blitzcontrol one day a month, two hours where it is clear in advance that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister appear here to answer two questions from each group? The majority may submit the topics they have decided to raise them to this stand, the opposition may ask questions on which it thinks the government is not working. I don't know how it is in Hungary, but you mentioned Angela Merkel. Can you imagine the debate in Germany if Angela Merkel told the Bundestag that she would cancel the blitzcontrol there? Do you have any idea what's going to happen as a debate? Please, in the form of a duvet, and so I take my cue, what do you think specifically about the proposal we are making? This will benefit all those who will make their informed decision. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u56	Indeed, honourable Members, I have had some criticism that I have deviated precisely from the subject of the agenda. I respect Krum a lot, and that's why he urged me frankly to say what I think. I will say quite frankly what I think, as I am entitled to the Constitution, even by our Rules of Procedure, ten minutes of free time beyond that of the parliamentary group, I will not use it in this case. Of course, it is possible that there is blitzcontrol, and I do not see democracy getting particularly hurt. However, my opinion on the issue that you have asked is that we must adopt the Hungarian model after 2012 and meet in sessions. My opinion is that this is not my personal opinion, I do not engage GERB, we should not be a permanent acting body, we should constantly come here, we should change laws every day, or the same laws. I think the Hungarian model of two sessions is very good. I agree that there should be no harm in blitzcontrol. However, the whole question is, are those on the blitzcontrol doing their job well? Colleagues told me that during your time there was blitzcontrol and Mr. Oresharski stopped the clock of Bulgaria and one year we lost a lot of time for Bulgarian democracy. It's not about blitzcontrol, it's about how it's managed. As for not signing the Constitution, of course I didn't sign it because I was a politician. The statute of limitations on communism crimes is not foreseen. DPS also did not sign it, many, millions of Bulgarians did not sign it, but applied it. And I have been obliged as a constitutional judge to enforce it, and I am not ashamed of my votes in the Constitutional Court. And President Zhelev appointed me with one motive. He was the only one that I had a self-thinking. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's try to get the debate back to its essence and analyze some facts. Since the beginning of the term of office of this National Assembly, 11 questions and 26 questions have been asked to Prime Minister Borisov, if I am not mistaken. But what's the problem? Half of them are inconsistent with the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. But why, honourable Members, how many of you who have asked these questions have read what the Rules say? These issues must be of an up-to-date nature and affect government policies. Answer from this tribune, how many of these questions were related to government policies? Why were they returned? With what motive? Have you read the reasons why they should be returned? What prevents you from asking questions that comply with the requirements of the Rules and then the Prime Minister Borisov here to answer you? And in the meantime, what's been going on lately? You ask questions, he comes to answer, and you are not as you were gone three months at the beginning of the year. The negotiators said how well the parliamentary blitzcontrol was going during 2013 - 2014, the Oresharski government, how he came here to meet these difficult conditions. Well, if we are talking about parliamentary democracy, let us recall that there was then a parliamentary democracy in siege, honourable MPs! There were some fences that prevented the MPs from entering parliament and asking these questions and questions in the blitzcontrol. Is that correct, honourable Members of the House? What really happened then? May and June 2013 Mr. Oresharski came and then, when the intensity of the protests increased, by the end of 2013. Almost November or December, if memory serves me right, his foot does not set foot here at all. He only sent the Deputy Prime Ministers to answer the uncomfortable questions of society, not the uncomfortable questions we asked from GERB as opposition. Do I need to remind you what these awkward questions were? What is really the essence of the debate today? Should or shouldn't there be parliamentary blitzcontrol? Why should there be parliamentary blitzcontrol? We didn't hear any arguments at all. We have heard arguments about how Prime Minister Borisov should come here to answer your questions. Well, ask them within the framework of the regular parliamentary control, honourable MPs, and he will come to answer you! Be sure of that! However, observe the requirements of the Rules of Procedure! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. The line, Mr. Kutev. Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Tzipov, I tried to raise the debate to a higher level, but he's always falling for the low one. I don't know why. That must be the composition of the National Assembly. [[Comments and shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] No, not really. Have you seen the questions and questions we asked? Because a lot of those who are returned are mine included. And you're saying I don't know the rules of the National Assembly? [[GERB lines: "Yes! "]] Or are you telling me that somehow I can't ask the right question? [[GERB lines: "Yes! "]] Let's get into a more direct conversation if you want. I can do it. It's okay. I can also quote the questions that have been returned. The last question, for example, which was returned to me two months ago, was an absolute paraxelance for Boyko Borisov, concerning security, was in terms of foreign policy, I will not quote things specifically, but it was a paraxelance. There is no way you can prove to me that this was a question that did not meet the Rules of the National Assembly. I did not try to question Tsveta Karayancheva's decision just because it was clear to me that she would do so. Not that I didn't expect it. I know how this mechanism works. However, the question was asked, and it was directly to Boyko Borisov, and that is where it belonged. I apologize, but if you're doing the same thing again that Georgi Markov did just now... We are talking about that you, led by Boyko Borisov, because of Boyko Borisov, cancel the parliamentary blitzcontrol, and you are guilty of becoming, first, the opposition MPs, second, the opposition itself. They become guilty of the fact that, you see, you do not want to bring real instruments of parliamentary democracy already introduced once in Bulgaria. You understand how ridiculous this is? It's ridiculous as a personal opinion, as a professional opinion. Now you may be going to say a lot of things after that, but I know the questions I've asked, and I know that these questions answer the rules no matter what...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u61	Your time, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u62	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ...that there is no one above Tsveta Karayancheva. And when Tsveta Karayancheva, with an apology, or any chairman, returns the question, there is no power with which this can be revised in any way. This means the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly, that is, the destruction does not start from below, but from above, and it is precisely the lack of responsibility of the President of the National Assembly that is why you have, how to say it, inadequate behaviour, now. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u63	Mr. Popov? You're giving up. Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, I will give you examples as you requested. On 23 September 2018, you asked the Prime Minister about the functions of the Council of Ministers. That question has been answered. Shortly before that, however, that is to say, shortly after that in May 2018, you asked a question about the 11th session of a meeting of the States of the United States of America. Is that the issue of government policy? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Is this your example of asking adequate questions? [[Private applause from GERB.]] That's your example?! Check what questions you have asked and then speak from the stands whether it is necessary to follow parliamentary procedures or to violate them, dear Mr. Kutev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, I am pleased that the debate really has taken place and we have started talking about this subject, namely a change in the Rules, and it is good to have this debate when we adopt the Rules and not to vote on it and then to be angry about why we have not adopted one or another text. I was very happy to see Mr. Markov on the stand and I really decided then that he would tell the Bulgarian Parliament, does he need blitzcontrol, or does he not need blitzcontrol. Now you, colleagues, are trying to make this offer as some kind of penal action by the opposition to the government. The opposition in this blitzcontrol will have two questions, and the ruling majority within these four parties that support it will have eight questions. That is, the idea that the opposition wants to punish the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister by coming here or humiliating them, perhaps you think no. What we want, honourable Members, and what we are trying to do, and today at the Conference of Presidents and Mrs Daritkova we have spoken, is to raise the authority of the Bulgarian Parliament, to raise the authority of the state. We propose to the MPs that 240 should be able to ask the Prime Minister, and of these 240 MPs, 160 maybe or less, I do not know, say: no, we do not want this opportunity. Why, colleagues? I don't understand. If you don't want to, don't ask questions. You agree with everything, you understand the policy of the government, you know the policy of the state, you have no questions and you do not ask. Mr. Borisov or any Prime Minister is coming, here comes two questions from the opposition, zero from the government, answers the Bulgarian citizens, gets up and goes. What's so scary? And let one really come out and say. Mr. Markov in his line supported the blitzcontrol and I thank him. He said there's nothing dangerous, that there's nothing to be afraid of. Yes, it will not contribute to the development of parliamentary democracy perhaps, but will certainly give opportunities to the Bulgarian citizens, the opposition, whoever it is, to ask the questions that concern the Bulgarian citizens. And because Mr. Tzipov set an example with Mr. Kutev. Mr. Tzipov, who better and more clearly can answer the question about Bulgaria's position on Schengen than the Prime Minister? Tell me who? Perhaps the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Transport. Who?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u67	No one has ever developed this topic for you. It's only in your heads.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u68	So here's a question like that. I am sure that Mr. Borisov will want to stand on this stand because he loves microphones, he loves cameras, he loves Bulgarian citizens, he wants to listen to it and to look at it, and a higher tribune than this one is not. These interviews outside that are being taken, they are another type of interviews. Let him stand on this stand. He says: "You invite me, but rudely. You call me, you call me. Now, in the most courteous way recorded in the National Assembly's Rules, where he will have the right to be here every first Wednesday of the month, the media will know that he will be there every first Wednesday, along with the Deputy Prime Ministers. Bulgarian society will know and expect it on TV screens and you deprive it of this opportunity. Perhaps two years ago you decided that you would somehow improve the work of the National Assembly. Well, the fact is, he's not getting any better. Now you're making arguments about what it was like in 2013. Well, I was 2013 here, Mr. Tzipov, along with you. Both Mr. Oresharski and the deputy prime ministers all came, were subjected to really critical issues from the then opposition and from the government. And did anything bad happen to parliamentary democracy? Why? I don't understand. I'm really telling you, I didn't hear, by the way, except from Mr. Markov, in support of the proposal arguments against. It was spoken, as they say, of Orban, of bus 84, of anything else, of the Constitution when, of how it was accepted. But now we have a Constitution that tells us MPs to do our constitutional duties, and part of them is parliamentary control. And when we offer to do our job, you may now say, "Oh, no, we don't want to do our job, let's go early." Let's work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u69	Three months you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u70	Mr. Ivanov, because several times from your parliamentary group you say: three months you do not want to work. Yes, we want to work in a working parliament where parliamentary democracy is respected and the laws where the Prime Minister is present, where he comes and answers, and in such a parliament as you had turned him, there is no point, Mr. Ivanov. Let me remind you that in 2013, you were two months at the seaside of the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u71	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u72	Nothing new is happening. Parliament is an institution in which things are repeated every year, every two, every three, so I don't see what your argument is that the opposition has been out of parliament for three months in a parliament where the Prime Minister does not want to come. Well, the Prime Minister is two years out of parliament. The Prime Minister has come here six times in two years, and in four years he must have come here five times or eight times, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u73	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u74	So, my fellow Members, really, without being rude, I call you quite heartfelt in the name of raising the authority of this institution, in view of last night's events in television shows, where people can no longer, let's not say a harsh word, let's make it so that we can raise our authority, the authority of the institution, the authority of the Prime Minister, the authority of the Council of Ministers and things can already go into a normal parliamentary democracy and procedure. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. A line? We continue with the speeches. [[Noise and lines.]] Guys, be quiet. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. [[National Representative Daniela Daritkova wants the floor.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you. You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I accepted the BSP colleagues' sincere concern for parliament's authority. This concern was expressed first thing in the morning at the Conference of Presidents, and we have all made a commitment together, which I hope will be respected that we will refrain from our emotional outbursts and indeed ensure that parliamentary behavior is balanced so that the institution becomes in the eyes of the citizens who have chosen us, stable enough and representative enough. However, today's debate has left me with the impression that you want to take advantage of the Prime Minister's high rating and draw from it to raise the rating of the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB.]] We really want to get back to the essence of the discussion, because quite eclectic and diverse were the speeches, going back into history, intentions, but back to the facts. I have a traumatic memory from Parliament 2013 "2014," when here, against the backdrop of some unrelenting civil protests and besieged parliament, we demonstrated with endless reports of months, quarters, of the six-month and monthly blitzcontrol that everything is wonderful in the state, and democracy in fact means nationality. The people were then required to hear the voice of the people. Tell me, is there any other prime minister besides Boyko Borisov, who is closer to the people, to be more accessible to him and to really hear what people expect from this government? [[Applause from GERB, noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u77	Todor Zhivkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u78	I believe that within the current Rules of the National Assembly there are sufficient opportunities, if you correctly follow the Rules, to be the Prime Minister always on current topics, and not on schedule once a month. And the most offensive thing is that at the time last Friday, when the Prime Minister was ready to answer your questions, the President of your party did not come to work and did not give the Prime Minister an opportunity to answer it. Is this the attitude that we should demonstrate as parliamentarians to the executive power? Isn't that also ruining parliament's authority? Ladies and gentlemen, I have also received another insight today and I have finally understood what democracy has taken away from you. She took your blitzcontrol. [[Noise, laughter and partial applause by GERB.]] I hope that we will also be sensible enough when you, with a three-month absence from Parliament, have really helped its authority sufficiently to collapse, now that we have a responsible approach to our activities as both legislative and parliamentary control, to follow the Rules that we voted at the beginning of the National Assembly and to meet the expectations of the people here in Parliament, the debate to be in the direction of how to make people's lives better. This is the essence of our commitment to our constituents. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u79	Thank you. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u80	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Daritkova, fellow MPs! Democracy does not consist of the Prime Minister, the Secretary-General or anyone else being close to the people. By this criterion, all political systems, where the monarch, the secretary general, the prime minister or someone else feels close to the people, are democratic. I'm sorry to have to say this, but this is ridiculous. The Prime Minister in a parliamentary republic does not matter how close he is or how far away he is from the people, because the Constitution, the rights of citizens, the rules of the state and the separation of authorities are the instruments that guarantee the rights of the people, regardless of who is Prime Minister and whatever part of his heart is in the abstract concept of people, which I think you will also find difficult to describe if someone asks you. The meetings on TV, the contacts with construction workers, the planned expression along a conveyor belt, the walks on newly built streets and sidewalks are not close to the people. This is footage of a 50-year-old movie coverage when you were walking on TV. That's not close to the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u81	Please complete the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u82	Today, the issue we are discussing is completely different. I'm sorry that I have to give you a line this way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u83	Second line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, it is, and another is the point of the debate today. I forgot to remind you that, after all, the monthly blitzcontrol in the committees exists and anyone can ask the ministers any questions during the Commission meetings. I think this is really rational, because then we can comment on expert topics that are the result of the policy of the entire government. In this same situation, we really need to discuss and listen to answers to questions to the Prime Minister, which concern a comprehensive policy. This is the Rules of Procedure. It gives sufficient opportunities and tools to the Members of the National Assembly. Otherwise, here to draw conclusions about who is close to the people, who is not, what is sovereignty is, anyway, it is decided in elections. People choose and support those who have understood that they will work precisely in the interests of citizens. This evaluation we recently received. We're hoping to get it in the next election. That's really motivating. I believe that here we will all return to the meaning of our common call today to look together for ways to increase the authority of the National Assembly when we fill with meaning and content the plenary sittings, not with debates that would be with sharp political and personal opposition, namely with debates on how to look for a better life for the people of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today's debate has been enriching on the topic of Democracy, Defects of Democracy. In practice, perhaps not more than 10% of it consisted of the real subject that we are discussing today, namely, there is or is no point in blitzcontrol? We can talk a lot about democracy. For its defects in the Bulgarian version, too. They undoubtedly stem from the Constitution, which has been mentioned and its character, from the nature of the government of the state which we have adopted and so on. Perhaps one of the major shortcomings is the hyperactivity of lawmakers and the constant production of laws and proposals, only to be in the focus of media attention instead of doing real work. By the way, I have been confessing for years, shared by Mr. Georgi Markov, that our parliament has been working too hard. If it works less, it may be more useful for our country, but that is another matter. The main motive and the main question that our fellow Members ask us on the left is: Why not? Why wouldn't he be here? Well, why would it be? I will say three simple arguments which, in my opinion, annihilate the thesis of the need for this instrument of parliamentary control, not because I am against parliamentary control, I am for parliamentary control, for the presence in this Chamber, including the Prime Minister. In this regard you have a supporter in me, but the specific tool does not work. You talk a lot about the Forty-second National Assembly. I wasn't in it, but in forty-three I was, and I have to tell you that this institute wasn't working. Here Mr. Borisov, whom you so desire to see, did not appear. He always had a business trip on the relevant Wednesday, so you will not achieve the desired effect to talk to him face-to-face. At the same time, it was quite simple to think of topics to draw attention to. Frankly, he didn't really work, he didn't do what you plead he'd end up doing. However, it will eat up the time for the bills that have been delayed. [[Heckling]] That's right. Two hours, however, when we put in the lunch break, by putting in different procedures and grips, past these two hours, practically half the day goes. I must tell you that many bills did not pass in the previous term, precisely because they remain only for the afternoon part of the sitting. That's a problem. I'm telling you this very collegiately because important bills, you know, lie in committees. You use this tool and we use this tool. I don't see why a serious bill should be kept in the freezer so that we can talk to the Prime Minister in general or rather with the Deputy Prime Ministers and build up points in front of the media. I really don't get it. The fact that these issues will be once a month is also a disadvantage because in practice the strong themes are lost, the things that are for debate are lost, they remain somewhere along the track and remain just current, everyday things. I remember that at the time Mrs. Nino had an appeal to Mr. Borisov to come out to understand each other like men, now she has apparently decided to invite him inside to understand each other as men. However, these personal relations should not be highlighted in some legislative initiatives, so I see no reason to support this proposal. I am doing this not because I am against parliamentary control, but because I do not think that this form of parliamentary control will bring any useful result.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u87	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Before that, I will introduce you to the text: Project! DECISION supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 1, para. 1 of the Additional Provisions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ HAS DECIDED It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 107a: Art. 107a (1) The last up to two hours of the meeting each first Wednesday of each month the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers shall appear before the National Assembly and shall respond to topical oral questions concerning the general policy of the government addressed by the MPs at the meeting itself. The questions referred may not contain a request to provide detailed numerical data. (2) The right to two up-to-date oral questions shall have every single parliamentary group, and Members of Parliament who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions in total. (3) The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to whom a question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. In the event of the absence of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers for respectable reasons, the President of the National Assembly shall, in agreement with them, determine the meeting to which they will respond to current oral questions. (4) The order to ask topical oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the completion of the procedure on the first questions asked. (5) The provisions of art. 97, para. Two and three. (6) Parliamentary groups shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 54, para. 6 in time for answers to current oral questions. Please vote. Vote 164 MPs: 68 against 85, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. On behalf of a parliamentary group, you have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, the first day of October is declared International Day of Elderly People. This is a decision of the UN General Assembly of 14 December 1990. On this day we all pay our respects to the people of the third age and their contribution to society. On this day, we should all rejoice and celebrate with them, but is there cause for joy? The support of older people and people throughout their entire life cycle is one of the main objectives of social policy. However, younger generations are not always able to give the deserved gratitude and understanding of previous generations for their contribution to the country's construction and economic growth. The principles of solidarity, equality and accessibility would not have this significance in Bulgaria's social policy if they were not accompanied by real measures and policies to support all from the youngest to the oldest. Inevitably Bulgaria's social policy in recent years has been seriously influenced by the developing processes and trends in the Member States of the European Union, with which we are building the European social model together. Within this model, serious attention is paid not only to issues such as extending work life and maintaining activity, but also to those such as intergenerational solidarity, quality long-term care for elderly people and ensuring a decent standard of living for those who no longer participate in the labour market. Unfortunately, Bulgaria seems to be still far from these goals. By the end of 2018 the total number of people over 60 years in Bulgaria is 1 million 973 thousand and 616, nearly 30% of the total population and most of them live in poverty. This clearly shows the need to change the old and find new legislative initiatives for this vulnerable population group, initiatives for targeted measures and programmes to mitigate the consequences of their vulnerable situation. The current measures are not sufficient and do not lead to the desired increase in the quality of their lives. Social services for elderly people, as they are doing today, do not contribute to removing the elderly from the group of the most vulnerable in our society. The time in which we live imposes on us and will increasingly force us to pay greater attention to the elderly between us. Demographic catastrophe and low birth rates, immigration and the desire of young people to seek realization abroad lead to a constant trend of ageing our society. The Bulgarian villages and cities are depopulated. More and more of them remain with a predominantly adult population, a fact that brings about doom. Elderly people, along with material hardships, face another unhappiness, because they are left with the pain and sadness of youth, to deal with their problems alone, loneliness not only in the literal sense of the word, but also in the fact that they become people forgotten by society who are quietly and slowly extinguished into a wild and predatory world where only financial stability, profit and success at all costs are significant, a world without care for them, who has turned them into a statistical group and nothing more. Nearly a million and 200,000 pensioners receive pensions, the size of which is lower than the poverty line. For this year it is BGN 348. Today, the Bulgarian pensioner receives about as much per month as the average pensioners in the richer countries of the European Union receive in one day. In Bulgaria, pensions from all European countries are the lowest. But we in the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria are addressing you, Bulgarian pensioners: don't be poor, because your hearts are rich and it hurts us that our mothers and our fathers, grandparents and grandfathers are the people who, with their tireless work, built our homeland, the people who raised and ensured the existence of today's generation of Bulgarians, are with pensions below the threshold of living minimum. We've left them miserable. We have left them with pensions, extremely insufficient not for healthy, but for eating at all, not for luxury and luxury, but not for cold in the winter, insufficient for medicines, insufficient for paying household and other needs, insufficient even for the worst medical care. Our society has condemned them to an early death. It is no accident that Bulgaria has the lowest life expectancy in the whole of the European Union. In its nearly 14th century history Bulgaria has not been placed in such a state. It was brought to the last place by all positive indicators and, first of all, by all negatives. The Bulgarian pensioner has the lowest pension, with the lowest threshold of poverty. Being an adult in Bulgaria is tragic. So forgive me, dear old people! From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we address you as people who, despite everything, continue to actively participate in public life and thank you for your dedication and contribution to the development of our homeland, the Republic of Bulgaria! On the eve of this day, or rather a day after your holiday, the Day of Old People, as MPs in the Parliament of a Member of the European Union, is necessary and we must state our determination to build a better life for the Bulgarian pensioner. This is why from this highest place the platform of the National Assembly, from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we address all parliamentary groups: we are in a severe demographic crisis, the high and stable economic growth is not a goal, but only a means to achieve a goal of higher rank, according to the good living level and quality of life of all Bulgarians. Old people need a new perspective. The current policies are not adequate to their real problems and to their situation and hide systemic problems that should be solved. The inequalities are deepening, the people living below the poverty line are increasing. This means other health policies, education, culture, income, social and legal protection. Does the Bulgarian pensioner deserve to live without question, to live better? To achieve this, we propose to unite around the following future actions: First of all, to legally establish a single electronic tax register, bringing together information about each person about what property he has, what income he has and what aid he receives. This will give us a real opportunity to evaluate and improve the system of social assistance, to distinguish pensions from social benefits and to make a new pension reform that is fair to distribute social security revenues according to the contribution of those who have imported them. To work to increase confidence in the social system by making a pension reform that will increase the adequacy of pensions, increasing revenues in the budget of state social security, which we will achieve through a complex of measures: First of all, recalculation of pensions. The last recalculation is from 2008. All pensioners expect such action. Eliminate the maximum monthly amount of social and health insurance income and the maximum amount of pension. Increase the contribution of the internship to the formula for the size of the pension. The percentage for each year of insurance service shall be at least 1.33 as the standard of the International Labour Organisation and then continue its smooth increase to 1,5%. Expanding existing flexible elements to promote longer stay on the labour market. Each year, an internship after acquisition of the right to pension to bear a higher percentage. All payments that are not related to the contribution shall be deducted from state social security and borne from the state budget. Next, the creation of an additional long-term care fund for the elderly and, of course, for the disabled. And last but not least, the adoption of the Old People's Law. We have to have morals to do these things. The justification that there is no money is untenable to our mothers and fathers. Dear Members of Parliament, old age is a natural part of every person's life. Let us work together to make sure that it is lived with dignity. Adults deserve attention and respect not one, but 365 days a year. After yesterday's celebration, in which everyone in the world honors the people of the third age, we offer our respect and our love to you! We are not indifferent, you have our appreciation, our love and commitment and our promise: with our work to contribute to your better existence and well-being. It is time to bow our heads before those who have created us, raised us with love, made us worthy people, deprived of everything so that we can receive education, qualification and start in life, and according to an old Bulgarian tradition raise and educate our children as well. Although on crutch, happy is your holiday, revered adult Bulgarians! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u89	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. We continue the legislative work with: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVE DISCLOSURES AND BENEFICIARY, No 954-01-23. It was introduced by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. We begin with the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Who's gonna introduce him? Mr. Tzipov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! At its meeting held on 24 April 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 954-01-23, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 12 April 2019. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Honest Veselinov. In his statement, the importer noted that the reasons requiring the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties are to be introduced into the system of administrative penalties under art. 13 of the Law the following two types of penalties: free labor for the benefit of society and detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior. The project proposes that the scope of the grant work for the benefit of society and detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior be limited. Punishment of free labour for the benefit of the public shall be imposed only for a repeated administrative infringement or for the so-called systematic infringement. As regards detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior, it is proposed to be imposed only on administrative violations related to the violation of public policy. The project contains detailed arrangements for the punishment of free labour for the benefit of society. The amount of this punishment is proposed to be no less than 40 hours and no more than 200 hours per year for no more than two consecutive years. An addition to Chapter Three, Section V of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments in connection with the entry into force of decisions imposing penalty free labour for the benefit of society is also envisaged. Regarding the implementation of this penalty, the proposal is to assign it to probation services at the current address of penalties. In this regard, it is envisaged that, in the event of failure to comply with the imposed punishment, free labour for the benefit of the public without due cause, the probation board will propose to replace it with detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior for up to seven days. The draft law proposes an amendment and an addition to the Anti-Little Bullying Act by proposing the punishment for free labor for the benefit of the public to be imposed as a punishment for repeating small hooliganism. The bill also provides for amendments to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention and the Law on Forests. In the opinion received by the Ministry of Interior it is expressed that the Ministry supports the bill in principle, but there is a need to make proposals to refine the texts between the first and second votes. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without a vote, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 954-01-23, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 12 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. A report from the Commission on Agriculture and Food follows. Is there a representative of the Commission in this House? I ask the Quaestors to search for the President of the Commission or one of the leaders. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u92	Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, No 954-01-23, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 12 April 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 18 April 2019 discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's meeting was attended by Dr. Fatme Demirova, Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service and Human Resources and Engineer Nikolay Pironkov, Director of the Department of Forest Protection. The bill was presented by Mr. Rosen Ivanov, who explained that in the mass cases of administrative violations the fine is imposed on persons who declare a lack of income or income below the social minimum. In this regard, the bill is proposed in the system of administrative penalties under art. 13 of the Law to introduce the punishment of free labour for the benefit of society, which is imposed for a repeated or systematic administrative infringement, and the detention of detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior for administrative violations related to the violation of public policy. It is within the competence of the Committee on Agriculture and Food that the proposal relating to amendments to the Forests Act, which, when some of the administrative violations under the Law are repeated, in addition to the introduction of fines, is proposed to provide for the possibility of imposing a penalty of free labour for the benefit of society. The penalty will be imposed on a person operating in the forestry territories without having competence; on a person carrying out forestry practice without being entered in the register or entered but carrying out an activity outside the scope of the registration certificate, as well as on a person chopping, hauling, freight, transporting, unloading, acquiring, storing, processing or ordering wood and non-woody forest products, in violation of the Law and its implementing regulations. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" urged the Bill to be supported, as it would enable the relevant competent authorities to impose on the perpetrators of administrative penalties to be implemented in full. In conclusion, after the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 1 vote in abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 954-01-23, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 12 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Veselinov's opinion of an importer. You have the floor to present the opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This small as content and as a volume bill is one of the most important ones that the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" imports, as it attacks one of the most important problems for our society, namely the sense of impunity, which, unfortunately, is embodied in our daily lives through dozens of daily cases of vandalism, of minor crimes, of irresponsible behavior, sometimes of entire communities that do not comply with the law, do not think that society should be adjusted to its customs, and not vice versa, to share the values of society. I will start by saying that the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments was made in 1969. It works when we talk about the socialized groups of the Bulgarian population and is definitely not working when we talk about the unsocialized ones. I don't mean, of course, just the marginalized gypsy communities. Here, on this list, is anyone who decides to abuse the gaps in the Law and its weaknesses. Only the huge amount of fines that are not collected and which still cannot be collected in the various administrations testifies precisely to this paradox. In this law we have three kinds of punishments. The first of them is the deprivation of the right to pursue a particular profession, which, for certain categories of people, of course, represents a major problem, but for a particular category of people who do not have a specific profession, is absolutely meaningless. The second is a public reprimand, which punishment at present seems like anachronism. Imagine in a gypsy ghetto entering a representative of some administration to reprimand the public face, for example Hasan Ismailov, who has cut illegal wood in the forest. This will cause violent joy throughout the community for years to come. The third is a fine which also to certain categories of citizens does not work at all. It doesn't work because they say they don't have any income. Having no income, then they can repeatedly commit the same type of administrative violations without being sanctioned, cultivate within themselves this sense of impunity that we are talking about, and the next step is, of course, crime and other actions with a higher public danger. Going to this bill, to amend the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, we have taken into account its weaknesses and propose that two types of new penalties be included in it. We should note that such penalties already exist in the Bulgarian law in the Anti-Little Horror Act and in the Public Order Protection Act in the event of sporting events. Here they are presented as administrative violations and corresponding penalties for these violations. The procedure for drawing up this bill is quite long. It started with the declared principles of Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov in the Concept for dealing with the problems with marginalized gypsy communities. A special working group meeting was scheduled to invite representatives of all relevant departments, including the relevant parliamentary committees. Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Interior, prison administrations, National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and many more participants were at these round tables, which took place in two meetings. Meanwhile, a number of proposals have been made under the Bill and, in fact, much of them have been reflected. There are formal opinions on the bill. They are, of course, accessible to all of you, but I would still like to mention that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior support the bill in principle. The Ministry of Justice even proposes to extend the scope, as we, as moderate people, can say we suggest to start the sample with this new institute in a more limited volume of cases......................................................................................... We have the positive opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria even there we have strong support, let me say. Naturally, we also have a negative opinion, otherwise it would be boring to see the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee, and there is no surprise in it. What do we suggest? We are proposing every second violation I started with the example of illegal logging because we know that whole gypsy neighborhoods are warm on the basis of the wood reserve they find in the nearby forests. Many times these representatives of the Gypsy ethnicity in the forests have been captured, many penalties have been imposed on them, by the way they must be in line with their property, and they are poor, of course, on social aid. After all, gently the forests are thinning or disappearing in favor of the community concerned. If, after the first case in which the relevant foresters warn the persons that they are committing a serious infringement and are not corrected, the second time, with the relevant procedure through the court, the person who is the perpetrator, will be obliged to work on certain days for the benefit of the public in the relevant regional probation services. Of course, the question is: what would happen if this person did not go to the community service? In this case, we provide again that the probation officer responsible for it will draw up a proposal and that the measure imposed on him by the public service will be replaced by a detention in the Ministry of Interior. We are aware that not all police districts have arrests. We are also aware that those who have quite a few, so we are more cautious about introducing this measure. However, the fact is that considering this type of new administrative penal policy, the Bulgarian state will have to invest a certain amount in order to implement the Law and I believe that this will be one of the best invested funds because they are funds in education towards following the law. I consider the bill very important. I hope for his common support because we all live in a society where the power of law is gradually erotic, everyone thinks that he has the right to do everything, and the introduction of this type of administrative punishment, which, by the way, is a broad practice, both in the United States and in Western Europe, will certainly show the systematic offenders that there is a punishment that should be more disciplined and meet the requirements of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u95	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you are, Mrs. Niva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The election campaign is already under way, the subjects, the participants in it, parties, coalitions, candidates for mayors, municipal councilors and I believe that the entry of this item into today's agenda of the National Assembly meeting is a purely electional, populist move. Why? The bill was submitted in April this year. He has been through two committees, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. It is not considered in the Legal Commission, namely the Legal Commission is the committee responsible for this bill. I agree with some of the reasons of the importers that in the case of administrative violations found, a charge is imposed. Will the proposals presented today address these issues? I don't think so. This is for example the proposed second charge of the Ministry of Interior........................... in the local structures of the Ministry of Interior...................................................................... What this new, proposed punishment will solve and I pay attention to this is a proposed punishment for committing an administrative offence rather than a crime. This will limit the constitutional rights of citizens, but will not solve any of the issues raised, because this will not lead to a reduction in the number of administrative violations, nor to an increase in the collection of fines, nor to the realization of the preventive function of the proposed penalties, especially for one ethnicity of the Bulgarian citizens. Yes, measures must be taken to limit the number of administrative penalties, and this can be done, for example, when the state enters into its role, namely, to ensure, not only, but also to create conditions for the realization of a fundamental right of citizens, namely the right to work. Thus, for a large part of the citizens involved in employment relations, this will also lead to a reduction in the number of administrative infringements and an increase in the collection of fines. Therefore, honourable Members, we at BSP will not support the Bill in this form. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Krasteva, I disagree with almost everything you said in your speech. First, regarding the fact that this was an election move. It would have been a pre-election move if the bill had been submitted two or three months ago and we now wanted to ask for his examination. Unfortunately, all the time has passed in the Standing Committees, including in the committee responsible, and if we respect the principle that the committee responsible for all the draft decisions must be ruled on, then why did we look at your draft decision on a change in the Rules? The Committee on Legal Affairs must also rule on it. With regard to the substance of the arguments put forward by you that this mechanism, which is provided for in this bill, will not work. The Ministry of Justice believes that it will not only work, but even conclude that the proposals should be much more radical, and not a second time, but the first time that an infringement has been committed, the administrative penalties envisaged should be applied. Furthermore, I do not think that we should wait somewhere in the distant future to adopt a new Code of Administrative Vigilance and Punishment in order to resolve this issue, but we must now introduce the principle of irreversibility of the punishment, both in criminal and administrative criminal law. There is no way to achieve individual prevention, there is no way to achieve general prevention when the intruder laughs at the control body, for they will fine him and he will not pay it. In conclusion, do not think that only persons who work or do not work, commit a crime and administrative misconduct and work, and do not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u99	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u100	Dear Mrs. Niva, I am surprised by your position, but mostly I am surprised by the position of BSP. In fact, is BSP about lawlessness and impunity? You're talking the state into its role. This is how the state will take its part when the intruder feels that there is also a stick, not only rights. The state had to look for people's jobs and then punish them. But please, it is clear that the elections are coming, as you yourself said, but are you going to rely on the Gypsy vote, are you going to defend them? So, until we all get them a job, they have the right not to obey the law? I'm just scandalous by this logic and I can't accept it. Please, come to your senses, because this is about a problem that will soon blow up the social peace in the country, the problem of impunity. Start solving it, not looking, being opportunists for everything that's right in this room. [[Applause by the MP Christian Mitev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Third line? I won't. Hole, dear Mrs. Niva come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u102	First of all, I'm addressing you, Mr. Mitev. That the deadlines have passed and the bill has not been dealt with in the respective order in all committees is a matter of organization of your coalition policy and a question of organization of the work of the National Assembly. You can't blame us for that. Second of all, Mr. Vesselinoff, I didn't say that. You're twisting my expression. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] No. I'm sorry if you didn't understand what I said, but... [[Replication from BSP for Bulgaria: "All Gypsy sections are of GERB. "Sound and lines from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u103	Please don't get into any trouble.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u104	We have stated our opinion, we will see GERB's support with regard to this bill. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u105	Thank you, Ms. Niva. Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u106	Mr. Chairman, fellow importers! I am 100% in agreement with the arguments you have made about the fact that ultimately and finally, a fair way to introduce some order and discipline for people who consider themselves unpunished and above the law is to be found. One hundred percent agree with all the arguments that time and circumstances have pushed us not to step back and should at all costs seek a solution on the subject with people who can bypass or sleep through the law. You know we have absolutely no differences here, we have spoken and I support you 100%. The only thing I've always said about the idea of changing the administrative penal law is that these people are short. These people with administrative penal provisions and measures, if we really have judged here in the National Assembly, the people on the streets, the people in the villages, the Ministry of Interior, the court, the prosecution and all of us know and accept that they have reached the limit of patience and the Law on administrative violations and penalties is few, the Penal Code is where we must focus our efforts to solve this problem. Yeah, you're gonna tell me now that the first step might be this one. I agree with you, I agree, but I very much want to get the effect of such legislation, to get real results from such legislation. In this regard, I have a huge request to the importers and to all of us.. Let us make the debate of your law in a broad and fine format in all committees interested in this and concerning this topic, because there are other aspects in it. We can all imagine what could happen if ten people enter a relatively small city in the police station in seven days and under the conditions that are currently scheduled the conditions for the places in which they can be detained and what needs to be provided as conditions, the Ministry of Interior, for how long will we fail it? Let us go through an economic justification, through the committees, through all the experts and adopt this law so that it is effective and does not create problems. Otherwise we support you, and I support you, too. It's about time and a step back in this direction there shouldn't be, but let's make it work. Is the replacement of community service with the detention places in the Ministry of Interior active, should we order that they be detained elsewhere in another form, in another order, only these technical details concern me? I therefore appeal to you to do them in a long period between first and second readings in which everyone can give their expertise in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u107	Thank you, Mr. Manev. - What's the line? Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u108	Mr. Manev, first of all, I accept your appeal. I agree that the debate must be comprehensive enough to convince ourselves as people who will vote on it and that these measures are necessary. I agree that there should be debates on the second measure, but I think that if philosophy is accepted, we will have enough opportunities to model these details. What I basically wanted to say is that yes, and the Penal Code must be changed. We have talked about a new criminal law policy and this is written in our management program. IMRO and NFSB are making efforts in this direction. You remember not only the Institute of Inescapable Defense, remember that we introduced proposals for changes to the so-called minor thefts that terrorize most of the population. They have passed at first reading, but again we are waiting for an adequate debate to come in second. I accept both proposals, but still let's move business and cancel the tasks, not just postpone. I'm counting on your support at first reading to get to the second.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u109	Thank you. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u110	Colleague Veselinov, again, you will get the support. That is not the point, the point is that we really need to clear the measures for them to work. This can happen with the participation of everyone in this Chamber, who has an idea on the subject not only as lawmakers and not only as people who have access to administrative criminal law, but also people who have practically touched on how it is applied and how the police will work on the ground for example. That is why I appeal to my colleagues from BSP to actively participate in the work between first and second readings with the expertise they have, because this is a revolutionary step in the implementation of the criminal provisions in Bulgaria, related especially to the administrative penalties. In current conditions, experience in this direction does not show very good results. We're the people who can figure out a way to make this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u111	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Mr. Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, like any legislative initiative, this one deserves respect and needs to be examined carefully. I'm taking an excuse to say one thing about the philosophy of the Law. It is obvious that the philosophy of the Law is to counteract more effectively certain phenomena that harass Bulgarian citizenship. There's no question about that. But it won't work! It's never gonna work, and there's a powerlessness behind it, so excuse me for saying it, it's conceptual powerlessness. Too often we change the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Most often we do it through other laws, which provide different ways and impose administrative punishment for those provisions that violate. So we turned the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, on the one hand, into an empty package, because there are too many special laws that regulate this matter. On the other hand, we too often deal with criminal law as a whole, either in its administrative part or in the Penal Code, as the pre-speaking, Adhok said, trying to respond to some expectation, trying to demonstrate some activity, admitting our own frustration that we did not do what was necessary to achieve its preventive purpose. The solution to this issue, honourable Members, and I congratulate you for putting it here is called the Punitive Policy Concept of the Republic of Bulgaria! It must identify those acts that must be punished administratively, and how, those acts that must be punished under the Penal Code, and how. This is a comprehensive work which should be built on a huge amount of empirical data which, by the way, have been collected within a project of the Ministry of Justice, which has been carried out for quite a long time and whose final phase should be precisely this document, which will once and for all give the framework in which we will move forward. This document was supposed to be ready by December last year. I take it he's complicated enough. I take it it takes a hell of a lot of expertise on him. We've put the matter to the Minister of Justice. He has committed himself by the end of this year to having this framework for it to pass through the Council of Ministers and to be able to discuss it. Only then will we be able to take serious measures to create texts that not only take into account the work of a certain working group and parliament, but to contribute to greater security for Bulgarian citizens. Anything else, in the meantime, is an imitation of activity. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u113	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, I cannot agree that in fact these measures are almost palliative and that we should wait for the concept of a new criminal policy. I do not believe that such a serious problem as failure to implement the principle of irreversibility of the penalty for administrative infringement in administrative criminal proceedings is an issue that must wait for the adoption of the concept and only somewhere in the future adoption of the draft code of administrative infringements and penalties when the system of penalties is being discussed there long and wide. We are currently leaving the control bodies, the administrative authorities in the municipalities, in the municipal administration and in the state administration with our hands tied, with a toolkit that does not achieve any of the objectives of the current administrative penal policy as part of the general criminal policy of the state. You do not think that Bulgaria does not currently have any criminal or administrative criminal policy and that administrative criminal proceedings are not subject to basic objectives and principles, as described in the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments and the Penal Code, which applies in the cases of administrative criminal proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u116	Mr. Zarkov, I cannot agree with you that we must wait and make new strategies, a new Penal Code and so on. We have been waiting for 30 years and Bulgarian citizens remain entirely with the feeling of injustice. Yeah, it may be a small measure, but we're going in some direction. That's what we've been trying to do for a long time. That is why, as early as January, we have proposed a comprehensive concept of dealing with marginalized groups, we continue to wait for it to happen. This, of course, is a conversation with our coalition partners, but in the end we have been waiting for 30 years for some justice to happen in the country. That's a step in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Siddy. Is there a third line? No. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Gentlemen Mitev and Siddy, thank you for your lines. In the line made, as it is essentially the same, you say we shouldn't wait. Help! Put pressure on the Minister of Justice, make it quick. It could have been done, it should have been done on a December project! By the way, the money's been used up, we didn't slow down there. Push, push, help! I agree there's no time to waste. You say "palliative" or "foot forward." The bad news is that they are not palliative, they may and will most likely prove harmful. Creating texts that are practically not applicable, we make another promise to Bulgarian citizens from here, from the TV, and in living life they will see that it is not respected. Once again, their sense of injustice not only will not be dulled, on the contrary, it will be accelerated and just at some point they will stop listening to us and the danger is that they will take matters into their own hands. And that's a danger, a public danger, equally measurable with what we're deciding today. These are not small steps in the right direction, this is an expression of our inability to answer a rather complex question. No one can do it on their own. I don't blame importers. On the contrary, once again I thank them for giving the stands for this debate. This requires to harness the entire capacity not only of the Ministry of Justice, but of the scientific community, of law enforcement and only when we have enough good primary material, here in Parliament we can do something useful. Otherwise we fill the agenda and inflate balloons of expectations that will burst in our faces. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will allow myself here, in view of some of the legal arguments that have been put forward by opposition colleagues, to introduce you to some of the motives of the Ministry of Justice regarding the philosophy and general principles of the bill: It is also based on the reasons and, as well as well known, in many cases, the penalty imposed is not implemented due to the lack of income or property of the punished person. The lack of real implementation of the penalties, which is the final element of the implementation of the liability, leads to its ambiguity and does not have a preventive effect on both the perpetrator and the other members of the society. This shows that the introduction of new alternative control and impact measures on violators "Natural persons', outside the already established types of cash penalties to be applied independently or in combination with other penalties, would be an appropriate solution. That's what the Justice Department says. We don't say that. "Human rights and fundamental freedoms" shall contain a provision. Four, which prohibits forced labor. The practice of the European Court of Human Rights under this provision is scarce. However, the European Court of Human Rights consistently interprets the notion of forced labour within the meaning given to it in art. 2 of Convention No 29 on the forced or compulsory work of 1930 of the International Labour Organisation, or takes this definition as a starting point. According to the definition given in art. 2, para. 2 point (c) of Article 29 "In the meaning of this Convention, the expression "inforcement' or "compulsory work' does not cover work or service required by a person as a result of a judgment rendered by a court, provided that this work or service is carried out under the supervision and control of the state authorities and that the person will not be surrendered or given to private persons, private companies, or private legal persons. That is to say, the Ministry of Justice confirms here that the proposed new administrative punishment for community service does not correspond to and does not come within the definition of forced labour and when it is carried out under the supervision of state authorities, which is intended here to be carried out by probation workers, by the probation office, there is no violation of international law to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. In relation to the proposed administrative punishment "retention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior" we believe that the same is acceptable and not contrary to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as it concerns one of the exceptions provided for in art. 5, t. 1 point (b) of the Convention. According to the provision referred to, no one may be imprisoned except in the cases specifically mentioned and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the law, with one of the hypotheses being in the event of a legal arrest or imprisonment of a person for failure to comply with a legal judgment or in order to ensure that an obligation prescribed by the law is fulfilled, such as is the case with regard to the failure to comply with the administrative penalty. In this sense is also the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior for a certain number of days is not contrary to the Convention or the practice of the European Court of Justice, and this fact is also established in the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Zhelyazkov v. Bulgaria. We stress that, as provided for in this version of the Bill, the two penalties should be imposed by a court, limited at time and proportionate. An important guarantee of their fair imposition is also the possibility of cassation control, which is also provided for in the Bill. In addition to the prescribed punishment, the award shall be made in cases of repeated or systematic execution on its own or on another penalty under art. 13, para. 1 of the Project, we would also like to add the following: in principle, we consider it admissible and the punishment for the benefit of society to be necessary on its own not only in cases of repeated or systematic execution. The meaning of the introduction of this punishment, as far as the reasons show, should be sought in the inefficiency of the imposition of the penalty. Therefore, it seems that there is no obstacle to the punishment for free labour in favour of society to be imposed at the discretion of the court when the penalty for the fine is not going to achieve its objectives in this case. The same should be necessary when it is established that the violator has no income or is below the social minimum, which is why he does not have money to pay the fine imposed. In view of the above, the possibility of imposing this punishment as an independent and alternative to the punishment of a fine could also be considered not only in the case of repeated and systematic infringement. In this sense is also the provision of art. 22 of the Public Order Protection Act, which provides for alternative imposition of the following penalties: detention in the territorial structure of the Ministry of Interior; fine; free labor for the benefit of society. Also, free labour should be imposed cumulatively in cases where the penalty for the first administrative infringement has not been met for the same reason as the wrong-doing of the intruder. We consider it appropriate, amongst other things, to impose the penalty for free labour for the benefit of society and even in the cases of repetition and systematicness, where the penalty is imposed, to be fined for the first administrative infringement. That is, in this case, the Ministry of Justice goes much further than what we have put into our project and insists, or at least recommends that between first and second reading be considered and that the punishment be provided for free labor for the benefit of the public, to be imposed even more in the case of an initially committed administrative infringement at the discretion of the court, which I believe is absolutely reasonable and correct, even I think that they have been quite cautious in our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u121	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Veselinov, my speech will be very brief only in relation to the fact that the proposed bill is thus not discussed in the leading Commission. It is not discussed and examined for one single reason: more than six months in the Council of Ministers has worked a very wide Interdepartmental Working Group on an entirely new concept of administrative violations and penalties. It is for this reason, and in view of your statement, in which you mentioned that there are positive opinions from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior, the opinion of the Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Court of Cassation, that we should consider the amendments to the Law very carefully so as not to come to a possible fragmentation and contradiction of legislative decisions. For this reason, the Committee on Legal Affairs intends to discuss the bills together with a view to taking a reasoned legislative decision on the overall policy of the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines, speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] I asked Mr. Vesselinoff if there would be any speeches. I've created a precedent once already because of my fault, but in this case you really should have given me a sign. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u124	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, if the sign I gave wasn't visible enough, but there's no way in general that I wouldn't be able to get involved in the debate. On the one hand, we have a desire for a complete solution to all problems at once, which desire is extremely positive. The problem with this type of desire is that they actually postpone many solutions that are important, necessary and that society expects us to happen today. I was very impressed with Mr. Zarkov's statement about how people will at some point take matters into their own hands. Yeah, and procrastination, and waiting for general decisions generally leads to that. Shortly after the new year, we will have a concept of new criminal policy, then 6 months, as normal, will be a discussion, then we reach the end of the term and it is not good to take unpopular measures, we will postpone it to the next National Assembly, and it will already think about how much priority it is for him and how. Colleagues, there are things that shouldn't be postponed. In this regard, I have already said that I do not accept the pre-election of the Law because for its preparation it has gone an extremely long procedure. This procedure included a debate by all interested parties, including the chairmen of parliamentary committees from the opposition, were invited to the workshops and probably not all of them responded. But that's not the point. It's not about the procedure, it's about the purpose. Our goal is to teach intruders to obey the law. It's not a small amendment, it's a radical one, because for the first time, we're going to introduce a new type of administrative punishment that will actually apply to those marginal communities that terrorize the entire country. And it is for this radical amendment that I seek support and regret that I do not find it in the BSP, which otherwise seriously post an alleged bias to the subject, including amendments to the Penal Code, the Penal Procedure Code, things that we have spoken before, but they are talking now and importing them. So, there's a discrepancy here that I don't want to give in to in the upcoming elections the flirting, say, with the gypsy barons, because I hope for an honest and honest election struggle. However, what we, as MPs of the United patriots, want to say is that regardless of whether there are or not elections, we are guided by the objectives with which we have entered this Parliament. These objectives require measures to be taken. These measures we do not want to take into account them with the writing of concepts and the absorption of money on European projects. I'm here as a people's representative to make laws, and these laws must be for the benefit of society. And this law, I believe, to the highest extent, is in favour of society, of imposing order and legality in this society. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u125	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, No 954-01-23, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 94 MPs: 66, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Thirty minutes off the job. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u126	Honourable Members, we begin work on the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR DENANCING THE EUROPEAN CONVENTION FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT AND BAD INFLUENCE OF ZORIERS IN SPORTS AND PARTICIPATION OF FUTBAL MEETINGS AND FOR THE RATE-FUTBAL MEETING AND FOR THE RATE-PUTIATION OF THE EUROPEAN INTERGRIZATION COUNCIL'S CONVENTATION FOR INTERIATED APPROACHES, SECURITY AND SUPPLEMENTING OF FUTBAL MACHINES AND OTHER SPORTS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. We'll start with the committee reports. First is the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. I give the floor to Vice-President Stefan Apostolov to present the Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at its regular meeting, held on 25 September 2019, examined the Draft Law on the Elimination of the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, in particular at Football Meetings and on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Safety, Security and Service at Football Matches and Other Sports Events, No 902-02-21, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Radostin Lubomirov and Mr. Georgi Georgiev from the Department of Public Relations and Protocol to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of the importers, Minister Kralev informed the MPs that the submitted bill aims to denounce the current European Convention No 120 on Violence and Poor Behaviour of spectators in sports events and in particular at football meetings, while ratifying the new Council of Europe Convention No 218. The importer clarified that the old Convention No 120, which entered into force on 1 November 1985, focuses mainly on preventing, crossing and countering incidents related to violence and bad behaviour in the territory of or near the stadiums, including a set of security provisions. During the last decade, it has been found that the content of the Convention is not consistent and in some respects is also contrary to the approach and good practices built and established over the years. This requires the establishment of a new convention binding the legally binding member states of the Council of Europe to offer adequate solutions to the problems of violence and anti-law in the conduct of sporting events. Council of Europe Convention No 218 on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events is open to signing on 3 July 2016, Bulgaria being one of the first countries to sign it. Mr. Kralev explained that texts of the new convention offer completely new and clearer objectives aimed at ensuring a safe, safe and hospitable environment in the event of football meetings and other sporting events, not only for the control of violence. It lays down the basic principles and measures to reduce the risks of a different nature in the conduct of sporting events, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, weaknesses of sports infrastructure and so on. The new Convention reflects the widespread European experience demonstrating that focusing only on security does not constitute an appropriate or effective means of reducing the risks associated with the sport event and does not guarantee a safe, secure and friendly atmosphere on the territory of sporting objects. Minister Kralev emphasized that the main objective of the Convention No 218 is to promote an integrated approach to safety, security and service in the implementation of which all agencies, state bodies and organisations concerned with the organisation and conduct of the sport event, and the roles and responsibilities of each of them are clear and complementary. The guarantee of safety during sporting events shall be ensured by means of a comprehensive approach allowing effective interaction between all participants, the requesting authorities, sports clubs and international organisations involved in ensuring safety. Ratification of Convention 218 will be a step forward for our country and will help develop new legislation in the field. The importer paid particular attention to the fact that the Convention is a framework document setting out basic principles that enable countries to adapt and implement them in their national legislation relating to safety and security issues in the conduct of sporting events. At present, the Convention has been ratified by 10 countries. It entered into force with effect from 1 November 2017. Once the Convention has been ratified, the establishment of a Permanent Committee to Convention No 218 in which the parties which have not ratified this international act will be entitled only to observers without having the right to direct participation and impact in decision-making. Once our country ratifys the Convention, it will be a full member. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 16-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill for the condemnation of the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, in particular football meetings and for the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events, No 902-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019. Mr. Chairman, let's do the clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u128	Should we do it now or after everyone gets through? Let the three reports pass and then we will do the procedure, Mr. Apostolov. Now follows the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Who will present this report? You are welcome to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill to denounce the European Convention on violence and bad behaviour of spectators in sports events, in particular football meetings and to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events, No 902-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019. At its meeting held on 4 September 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law for the denouncement of the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events and, in particular, Football Meetings and the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Safety, Security and Service during Football Matches and Other Sports Events, No 902-02-21, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Stoyan Andonov. In his presentation, he noted that the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events and in particular football meetings, called for a short period of time "CETS No 120" was ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria by a law adopted by the 37th National Assembly on 13 September 1996 and was in force for the country on 1 December 1996. During the last decade it was found that its content does not correspond to good practices and that part of the regulations creates a potential to escalate a threat of violence and riots. In order to respond to new challenges and good practices, the Council of Europe adopted the new Convention on an Integrated Approach to Safety, Security and Service of Football Matches and Other Sports Events, referred to as CETS No 218., signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 July 2016. The new Convention signs new and clearer objectives for ensuring security and safety in sporting events, not just control of violence and bad behaviour of viewers. The complex approach to resolving and crossing the problems of violence and aggression and crossing risks of a different kind (e.g. natural disasters, terrorist threats, disadvantages of sports infrastructure and any kind of illegal behaviour) is encouraged. It is of great importance to the integrated, inter-agency approach in solving the security, safety and service problems of sporting events, but at the same time a spirit of partnership between stakeholders involved in the organisation of football meetings and other sporting events is also encouraged. The establishment of a Committee on Safety and Security in Sports Events is envisaged to ensure an institutional basis for sustainability, monitoring and effective continuation of the current Standing Committee. At present, the CETS No 218 Convention has been ratified by 9 countries. Upon ratification by 10 countries, a Safety and Security Committee will be established and the ratified Convention will be entitled to direct participation and impact in decision-making. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly should by law denounce the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events and in particular at Football Meetings and ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Safety, Security and Service during Football matches and other sports events. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov and Valentin Radev took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion and voting, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, with 18 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill to denounce the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events and, in particular, football meetings and to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events, No 902-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Mr. Apostolov, I suggest that we now do the procedure for admission. We can afford it by looking at the hall and being able to take their seats before the last report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 83 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I make a procedure for the admission of Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u132	Please declare a vote on the tolerance procedure. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests, and we are moving on to the latest Foreign Policy Committee report. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present the report to you in summary because it repeats much of the contents of the other reports. ♪ I can't believe on a bill to denounce the European Convention on violence and bad behaviour of spectators in sports events, in particular football meetings and to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events, No 902-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019. At its regular meeting on 4 September 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned bill. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Nikolay Pavlov. The draft proposed by the Council of Ministers contains two main proposals. The first is to denounce the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events and, in particular, Football Meetings "CETS No 120," which was ratified by the 37th National Assembly on 13 September 1996. The second proposal in the Bill is for ratification of the new Convention on These Issues, which replaces the current European legislation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The new Council of Europe Convention was drawn up and adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe after broad discussion and coordination, including obtaining an opinion from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE), as well as from the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities in Europe. The opinion of PACE No 290/2015 was made by a rapporteur from the Bulgarian delegation in the Assembly..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this way Bulgaria has taken a key part in the creation of this new European regulation, related to the integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events. At present, as has been said so far, the Convention has been ratified by nine countries and entered into force on 1 November 2017 following the first three ratifications. Following the decision of the Council of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union are expected to move the ratification of the Convention into their parliaments in a timely manner. Following the 10th ratification, a Committee on Safety and Security in Sports Events will be established at the CETS No 218 Convention in which the parties who have not ratified the Convention will be entitled to obtain observer status without being able to participate in decision-making. Assuming that it is in the interest of the Republic of Bulgaria to take part in the decision-making under the Convention, the Council of Ministers proposes that the National Assembly ratify it by adopting the submitted bill. During the debates, the following questions were raised: National Representative Christian Vigenin was interested in whether changes in Bulgarian legislation will be required after the ratification of the Convention. People's representative Krasimir Bogdanov asked whether the requirements of the Convention could be applied in our terms. Deputy Minister Pavlov replied that a new bill is currently being drawn up, which will reflect the principles of the Convention in Bulgarian legislation. He expressed confidence that Bulgaria could benefit from the good practices of other countries, including the modernization of the technologies used in sporting events. Following the debates held, the Committee on Foreign Policy held a vote in which the draft voted 15 MPs, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill to denounce the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events and, in particular, football meetings and to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Safety, Security and Service during Football Matches and Other Sports Events, No 902-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Should I ask the importers if they would like to present the bill? I can't see. We are going to debate. Are there any speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking the floor on the proposed ratification convention in relation to several issues that I think we should bear in mind before we vote. First of all, two words about the background of this document. As you have learned from the reports, the proposed Convention replaces another Convention adopted in 1985, which appears as a result of the tragic events, most of you may remember in the early 1980s at Hazel Stadium, when people died during a football match and this, for the first time in practice, raised the question of regulating the security of major sports competitions. For this reason, the Convention was adopted, and today, as a result of an extensive discussion in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it has been concluded that the circumstances have changed very much in the Member States of the Council of Europe. Our societies, the organisation of sports competitions, the entire infrastructure around the organisation of sports competitions is very different from this 30 years ago. It's about new phenomena related to mass sports. Often the violence we witness is internationalised. It is no longer focused only within the stadiums. I would like to welcome the rapid reaction of the Ministry of Sport and the executive in this direction, because Bulgaria is not one of the best examples in Europe in this regard. If you compare the attendance of sports competitions in Bulgaria and especially football matches with those in large countries and the examples of violence and victims of violence, Bulgaria may end up in one of the front places. I therefore believe that it is not just a formal procedure that the Bulgarian Parliament must implement. I would like to highlight a few moments from the Convention and call on the executive authority, in particular the Ministry of Youth and Sport, to pay due attention. It is about the establishment of the committee that has already been mentioned. It is obvious that Bulgaria will be one of the first countries to have a representative in this Common Committee to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, who will also observe the implementation of the Convention in national laws and the more direct application of the standards that this Convention introduces. The integrated approach was also mentioned, two words I would like to say about it. What this means in Bulgarian is that the police are not the only responsible institution dealing with what is happening in the Bulgarian stadiums. I think we already have some practice in this regard, but the Convention pays particular attention to the order around the stadiums, the examples of group violence, I think there have been even similar examples recently. So the Convention has to do with not just sports competitions and the order of stadiums, but with the social health of a society. I therefore call on, I think, that there is no need for this, but nevertheless to support ratification and call on the Ministry of Youth and Sport to take all the follow-up actions envisaged in the Convention in order for sports competitions in Bulgaria to take place in another spirit and what we often observe in the stadiums and beyond, I do not want to enter into part of the scandals, ideas, slogans of fans, it is not necessary for a person to be a narrow specialist to see what types of behavior are being imitated by separate organized groups in the stadiums, what symbolism is used. Often Nazi symbolism, discovered Nazi symbolism, can be seen in Bulgarian stadiums. We are aware that many of the organized support groups of the individual teams are also in contact with the team owners. The Convention provides for the active participation of the owners of sports teams, football teams in their involvement in organizing the order of sports competitions. The subject is not secondary, so I also address those who are involved in sports to take the necessary action and to end the precedents of Nazi symbolism, which is used in sports competitions in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will be very brief. Here, thank you, of course, from my colleague of the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the adequate response. We should also precede these thanks to the working group that participates in the preparation of emergency measures in relation to sports and, in particular, football hooliganism. Many of the things my colleague has been talking about, such as the fact that owners should already be responsible and be responsible for protecting public order, the life and health of viewers in stadiums, in sports halls, were made in this working group. It is working in this direction, there is a result of these emergency measures and I am glad that we are continuing in this direction. Of course, by condemning this convention and ratifying the other, we will make and comply with the Bulgarian legislation the relevant measures, which we will comment on together and in the Commission. I think that this thing is coming on time and already with a fully prepared bill to be discussed, and the necessary consensus from all parliamentary groups will be reached to be able to enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. With this, we can close the debate. I put to the vote the bill condemning the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, in particular football meetings and ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedure for the transition to a second vote on the bill adopted by the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u140	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. I put to the vote the proposal to move to a second vote in today's sitting. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov, for the next procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u141	"I'm going to repealing the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, and in particular football meetings to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Safety, Security and Service during Football Matches and Other Sports Events Art. 1. The European Convention of Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, in particular at football meetings, denifies the European Convention of Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators. Art. 2. It ratifies the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events signed on 3 July 2016 in the city of Saint-Denis, France.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-10-02.u142	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. I put to the second vote the bill announced by Mr. Apostolic. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. With this, the Bill was adopted at second reading. This has exhausted the National Assembly's agenda for today. Next meeting tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Abandoning session. [[Ringing]] .
