ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u1	[[Ringing]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before we begin, colleagues, because yesterday from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) asked here to be Minister Neno Dimov and Minister Petya Avramova to give information about the situation in Pernik, today the two ministers have the opportunity to be here. Mrs. Avramova is on leave, so we will allow Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov in the hall. Please vote regime for the admission of Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov. I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly that the procedure is information, so I will not give the floor for speeches or positions after the ministers' speeches. Vote 154 MPs: 150 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov to the hall. Mr. Minister, please inform the MPs of the situation in Pernik. The word has the Minister of Environment and Water, Mr. Neno Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Environment and Waters, as required by the Water Act, determines how to use waters of 52 complex, significant dams, including the reservoir of Studena. It is an annual equalizer with a total volume of 25,2 million. Cube. M and with a dead volume of 2.4 million. Cube. m. The waters of the dam are used primarily for the drinking and domestic water supply of the town of Pernik and the surrounding settlements. In the monthly requests, water for industrial purposes is declared according to contracts concluded, which can also be used for electricity production. In 2018 and 2019 the hydroelectric power station "Studena" did not work on the energy regime. The hydroelectric power plant only processed water for use for drinking and industrial water supply, as well as water for ensuring the minimum allowable flow in the river after the dam. The registered influx to the dam from the beginning of 2019 to the end of October is only 11.9 million. Cube. m. This defines the inflow in the dam of Studena to date as an inflow for a very dry year. Studena Reservoir has priority use of drinking and domestic water supply with operator Water and Water and Primary MRRB. In accordance with art. 17, para. 2 of the Ordinance on the use of surface waters up to the 26th number of the previous month of the water water supply, Pernik, in order to be included in the monthly schedule, presents an up-to-date monthly request for the volume of water required for the upcoming month. In view of its quality as a water operator, the necessary water masses requested by the Water Supply from the beginning of 2019 to October, including, have been granted priority in full and no alternative sources have been included in this request. In accordance with art. 18, para. 1 of the Regulation on the use of surface water, the owners or operators of the dams and facilities to them shall provide the Ministry of Environment and Waters with a report on the water balance of the dams in Annex No 1 of the Water Act on a daily and ten-day basis on the next working day and on the month on the first working day of the following month. In 2019 the inflow is typical for a very dry year. During this period, the expenditure is maintained as a water supply service for annual water applications planned in an average humidity year. The water supply is the owner of more than 25 permits for water collection by other surface and underground water sources, for which there is no information as to whether they were used during this period. The water supply should be carried out on a real and daily basis to control the use of drinking water as intended, but in the conditions of drying and reducing the reserve of the dam, an alternative water supply should be included in order to avoid a water regime. The State is, of course, responsible for the measures taken. In this regard and in view of the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the following actions have been taken: in 2018 and 2019 the hydroelectric power station "Studena" has not worked on an energy regime, as I have already said, but only the water provided for drinking and industrial water supply, as well as the drain after the dam. On a monthly basis, in the schedule for the use of water from the dams, the only dam on which a minimum allowable flow is provided in the river from the dam is provided only after providing water for drinking water; the use of water for other purposes for which the dam is used is limited to the maximum. The request for November is satisfied with a quantity for a very dry humidity year approved in the annual schedule. In addition, in August 2019 between the Ministry of Environment and Waters and the Ministry of Environment and Waters and the Ministry of Environment and Waters and the Bulgarian Ministry of Environment and Waters and the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Environment and Waters was signed. The project is funded under Operational Programme The implementation of the activities will increase collections and treated load for pollution at waste water discharge, reduce water loss in water supply networks and improve water supply for citizens. According to the regional pre-investment study and as a result of investments in the water supply network of the agglomerations Pernik and Radomir, water loss will decrease by nearly 2.8 million. Cube. m. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u4	Only this loss would supply these two agglomerations in a month and a half. A continuous water supply will be provided, about 24 km will be rehabilitated, a new water supply infrastructure will be built about 3 km. The implemented activities will also improve the ecological status of the Struma River, helping to restore biodiversity and the quality of habitats. The total investment amount is close to 105 million. BGN, of which less than 79 are under the Operational Programme. Industry. In 2019, the requests by the Water and Water Department of Pernik, for the industrial supply of "Stomana Industry" and "Topplofication" from the lake "Studena" are for quantities corresponding to an average humidity year, but after verification of the Swimming Directorate, companies have been found to have used smaller quantities of water corresponding to a dry year. With the amendments to the monthly schedule the water supply of the dams for industrial supply has been suspended, for which the Stomana industry and the "Topplofication" is required to use alternative water sources from the Struma River, for which they have complex permits from the Swimming Directorate, respectively from 2010 and 2014. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u5	Thank you for your input, Dear Minister. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov to inform us on the same subject. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will give summary information regarding the water crisis in Pernik municipality, and yesterday I heard from the media not only in Pernik municipality, but also in other areas of the country where we currently have a broken water supply regime. What are the reasons? Perhaps Minister Dimov better summarized them. In short, I will summarize what the logic of the sector is, the competence of the Ministry, respectively the water operators that serve the population and industry with drinking or industrial water. Water operators, as commercial companies within the meaning of the Commercial Act, are buying water with municipal, state or mixed state-municipal participation. They buy water from the state, respectively this is the water use fee that they pay to colleagues from the Pool Directorate at the Ministry of Environment, purify this water, provide the necessary quality, quantity, deliver it to consumers, and where there are built sewage treatment facilities, sewerage systems, purify it and take it away, including rainwater, for which the service pays the Bulgarian citizens, consumers and subscribers. Whether there are water quantities, whether there is water, according to the regulations of the Water Act and its regulations, is regulated in the powers of the competent institutions: the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Swimming Directorate, the colleagues from the water companies. The way of use of the waters of the complex significant dams will go to the topic with Pernik and Studena Dam is defined in art. 53 of the Water Act, Annex No 1. According to the provisions of art. 53, Annex No 1 The Minister of Environment and Water shall approve annual and monthly schedules for their use. The annual timetable shall define the strategy for the use of water from these dams for the relevant year. The monthly schedule shall be drawn up taking into account: up-to-date information on the condition of the dam in the previous month; the strategy set by the annual timetable; the forecast of the expected inflow; the hydrometeorological situation and the assessment of requests in the monthly request by the holders of the water collection permits. In Pernik we have two such industrial ones, which I think Minister Dimov mentioned, I was unable to hear, and these are the steel industrys and the Toplofication with separate water permits issued by MOEW. Monthly schedules shall be published on the MOEW website and shall be publicly available. The persons carrying out the technical operation of the dams and facilities to them, in this case, the operator of the dams. Pernik, present to the Environmental Ministry information............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The water supply balance in the body of Studena dam was provided by Pernik, who provided daily, ten-day and monthly reports. Two words for Studena Dam. It is public-owned under the Public State Property Act of 18 December 2018, acting once again, with management rights granted to the district governor of Pernik. I was slightly surprised that yesterday the governor mentioned something else and did not know that the rights to manage the dam were in its patrimonium, but this is another topic. It was built in 1953 with the aim of regulating the waters of the Struma River and the tributaries of the Mutnitsa River and the Kladnitsa River with the dams built with a one-year equalizer. What's that gonna say? The dam relies mainly on snow melting as the main flow of water into the water body: 70 - 75% of snow melting, 25 - 30% of rain, drawing its waters from the water supply of the so-called Vitosha water tank. The dam has a one-year-old equalizer with a volume of 25 million. Cube. M, as the water flows through the overflows at a volume of over 20 million. It is very important that I mention it, and I will say why. In 2018, speculation emerged among the local public in Pernik that because of the renovation of the wall in 2018 the dam was drained. Dear Members of Parliament, I will also provide a reference from all parliamentary groups. The dam was drained in 2018 only when it was more than 20 million. Cube. m, as are the prescriptions of both Swimming Directorate and MoEW colleagues, as are the safety rules and adequate, normal operation of the dam. Secondly, I must say, I think Minister Dimov delivered the information regarding the inflow of water at Studena Dam. I will only repeat that in the first 10 months of 2019 the quantities of snowmelting, of rainwater and of all tributaries in the lake "Studena" are almost four times less compared to the same period of 2018; three times less the flow compared to the same period of 2016; twice and a half less than the same period of the 10 months of 2017. I accidentally say these facts. At the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, we checked after all the signals. She found that the manager of the water supply service Pernik had taken almost all the necessary actions under the regulatory requirements in relation to the water supply. He has notified all interested parties as early as April. You know who allows the water regime in settlements. So he notified, first, the mayor of the city, then the district manager. April 2019 has informed the mayor, the governor of the district as chairman of the Association for Water and Water, about taking the necessary action to stop the water supply for water supply, I stress for water needs, for disinfecting streets, vehicles and so on. That's exactly what August is doing. I will provide you in the form of a report of the Ministry, which today I must approve as Deputy Minister Avramova, the audit report of colleagues from the Ministry, there is a lot of factology and chronology back in time. Second time, August, the third time, with a request for the October, October 7th water regime. For me, a little late. Yesterday I also mentioned to journalists in Pernik that this should happen in the middle or at the end of September. October 7th has been notified. I do not know what was the reason why this proposal of the manager of the water company did not come into force, not to be examined by the local administration, as by the way the colleagues of the water companies, and the representatives of the local authorities in Lovech and in Pleven. In Lovech, October 24, three days before the first round of the elections, a water regime was introduced, and in Pleven on September 15th, shortly before the start of the election campaign. Assuming that the hypothesis of a election campaign, local elections in any way may affect representatives of local authorities to consider, assess, justify the needs and issue an order for the launch of a water regime, because I heard arguments that, you see, we should demand the resignations of other water operators in Lovech, in Pleven, because they are introducing a water regime. Well, unfortunately, from a water-based group of the Black Ossam, for example, from which the two district cities are mainly supplied, Lovech and Pleven, with more than 200,000 people in Central North Bulgaria, the flow that the water company receives, this is an open water source, the upper current of the Black Wassam river, is under 400 liters per second. If it falls below 400 to date is 310 liters per second, the two water companies will be obliged to cease, respectively after motivated proposals and after the respective orders of the mayors of the two municipalities, the water supply to the two settlements in certain time ranges to ensure the necessary quantities within the next four to five months, when according to respectively hydrological and air-conditioned forecasts is expected, once, active snow-melting March.April, the second time the spring watering of the rivers to be able to ensure normal, albeit suspended within certain hourly ranges of the water supply. In Pernik the question was not whether or not there should be a water regime. There was supposed to be a water regime. Maybe, I mentioned, it should have been introduced a month earlier. For Pernicans, the main question is not: should or should not there be a water regime? In response to the local public, to representatives of the local authorities, we commented yesterday and with Vladimirov, not only yesterday, but also last week with the mayor of Pernik municipality that there should be a water regime to ensure the necessary quantities at Studena I will say what alternative options for the water supply and for increasing the flow to the dam Studena. We have decided to take within the next month to a month and a half. Whether it is the best and most appropriate as time range and mode will also assess the mayor, the engineers of the water company, of course, together with our engineers of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Not that we have powers, not that we have obligations, but we will help with the expertise, so that within the next week, up to 10 days, we can determine whether this is the best regime for feathered once, as the technical and operational state of the water network of the town of Pernik, which, by the way, is the most depreciated water supply network in the country. Without transferring the ball or saying what are the reasons, Pernik remained the only district town in Bulgaria without the so-called water cycle, without the implementation of a water cycle in the previous programme period under Operational Programme. An investment project is not realized in Pernik, I repeat, for one reason or another, you can be interested in why, under Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013. More than 75% are the water losses from the dam "Studena" along the water route within the town of Pernik, 76% throughout the municipality. The small settlements, which are supplied by the reservoir of Studena, achieve losses of 90%. It's a good thing we've found a solution for this problem. During the current programming period, Minister Dimov mentioned the project under Operational Programme "Environment" with beneficiary this time not Pernik municipality. You know what reform has been carried out in terms of programming in its environmental component under Operational Programme "Environment." The beneficiaries are already the water operators, the water companies. The beneficiary will be the water service operator for a reason, and it is no accident that I say who will be the beneficiary of the future project, but the funding is provided. There is a contract with the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" respectively, i.e. within the next two years 2020 " 2021" the huge problem of Pernik will be solved by reducing the water losses. Separately, the project includes the construction of four new alternative water sources and their attachment to the water supply network of the town of Pernik. The more global problem with the dam is separate. Its technical and operational fitness, its sustainability within the next 30 to 40 years, is guaranteed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within the last three years with the Project, which Minister Dimov mentioned, namely the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the dam at Studena Dam and rehabilitation of the Drinking Water Cleaning Station. Here again is the speculation that because of this renovation the waters of the dam are drained. All data, all schedules show that the dam volume was reduced only when it was over 20 million. Cube. m, as are all the regulations of the control institutions in the safe operation of the dam, as are the regulations of the colleagues of the Ministry of Environment and Water.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here is also the great guilt of the local head of the water company, as he failed to dispel these speculations, these suggestions among the local public. It has nothing to do with the construction that the most expensive service is chosen for, namely with divers, talking about putting waterproofing on the dam. Just give me a few more minutes, no more than three.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u7	We'd love to hear from you, Deputy Minister. Keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u8	The mayor and I discussed in Minister Avramova's office last week some ideas that are currently visible that their practical application will be difficult to implement. Reservoir "Dolna Dikanya" (owned by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, with a free volume of 2,5 million) which could possibly be flown into the reservoir "Studena" with the construction of a water pipeline, figuratively speaking. We need to build pumps and thrusters, respectively, as the displacement is serious "over 80 m between the two dams. A quick estimate, the investment is about 12 million. lv. But the problem is rather that the water is not suitable for drinking according to the samples that came out of the first laboratory. We are waiting for the samples to come out on Monday and the best of the best is subjective opinion, accredited laboratory in the country, that of Sofia Water. So this source that the mayor proposed will, in our opinion, be difficult to implement and put into service. Secondly, they investigated the local water sources, those currently preserved, which are in the back terrace of the Struma River. They all have flow rates from 10 to 20 liters per second last year and the year before. Currently, as water quantities have been deconstructed, checked, tested. As a flow rate, the water quantities in them are less than liter per second. This is again a confirmation of the extremely low levels of the river body of Struma river, of the low groundwater in the shallow flood terrace, respectively in the other water basins, including the dam and Studena dam. The most serious alternative is the Vladai Canal, along with other water sources from the Vitosha Diversbora. The fourth day with our colleagues from Sofia Water, we are investigating these options. The Vladai channel has a flow rate of 15 liters per second and currently in full water increases its water quantities from three to four times. This could be one of the alternatives, and will be attached to the lake. Just for the record, the current flow to the dam is no more than 30 liters per second, i.e. another 15 liters per second from the Vladja Canal. There are different options for the alternative use of the physical water grip, which currently provides drinking water for Kladnitsa, the Delta Hill, Lower Dragichevo. They're out of mode. I suppose that we should also move on to mode as quickly as possible with the mayor yesterday, so that some of the volumes they use can be redirected to Studena Dam, respectively to the settlements, including the town of Pernik, which are supplied by Studena Dam. Apart from this, we see that in 2019 the accidents to The 10-month period of 2019 in the water supply system of the town of Pernik has doubled compared to the entire year 2018. From just under 1300 in 2018, we currently have more than 2,700 accidents on 31 October 2019 due to the low levels of the dam, due to the low quantities and the permanent drought in this year. Inevitably, accidents will also increase with the water regime. What crisis measure did we take here? As the principal of the other neighbouring water companies, together with Water and Water and Water, we will use their potential and their emergency teams to duly and inevitably remove the accidents within a few hours, which will inevitably happen in Pernik. By the way, there was a very serious accident this morning in the area of Pernik's hospital. So perhaps next week, when the mayor and I receive the necessary data, with the municipality engineers, the company's engineers should decide to suspend the submission within two parts of the day, i.e. to have a water regime only with interruptions within one frequency shift, that is, or in the morning for example, from 5:00 to 12:00, or in the evening hours, what was the initial proposal of Minister Avramova from 16:00 to 22:00 or 23:00. One more thing to stress, ladies and gentlemen of the House, and I will end this on the subject of Pernik. Then I will say two sentences about the situation in the country. And at the moment, the water operator in the face of its management has not allowed himself to exceed even by a liter of the water levels approved by the colleagues from the MOEW. Not with a liter! On the other hand, I have to mention that industrial needs, industrial enterprises, which have been stopped as water supply since 1 November, again in my opinion, are with specific, separate water clearances for water consumption, I will not quote the numbers, I will provide you with this information, and the water operator would fail. It is a carrier of the service and of the water in the case of these water-use permits, that is, there are permitted volumes, there are permitted quantities. We can't outrun them and we've never done it. I say the whole system of the water sector with all the water companies in the country. On the contrary, it has always been less than the permitted volumes, let alone in this year 2019, in which real droughts are ubiquitous throughout the country. And a little bit for the whole picture in the country. Currently, there are in 17 districts of the country 40 municipalities, 12 cities. There are 241,000 people living in cities. 160 villages are also in impaired mode with affected in the villages 73 thousand inhabitants. The total number of people affected by the water regime is currently 315 thousand. Larger cities: I mentioned Lovech, Teteven, again since October there is a water regime, for Pleven I mentioned, Pernik, Dobrich here I am told, I heard Krasi Yankov, Kotel, Omurtag every year of water regime. Two complex measures. I do not know if we agree with colleague Dimov on global warming and climate change, but we see that climate change is a fact and we are increasingly confronted with caprices in quotes of nature. We have two challenges ahead of us. The first is to the maximum extent to absorb European funds and to find more accurate, more social friendly, of course, mechanisms effectively to spend public resources in rehabilitation of the water network, that is, water should not be wasted on the water supply network, which in most cases was built 50 years ago, as well as in Pernik. In Pernik, the city's water supply network was built in the 1960s. Yesterday I was also asked journalists: when was it mainly reconstructed? Well, it's never been reconstructed basically. Palatial, partial emergency repairs. That's not gonna happen! Here, we have already provided funding for a comprehensive replacement of Pernik's water supply network. That is, the maximum and effective cost of the resource in the water system in the country, however targeted it may be. And second, of course, with regard to such weather anomalies, we see, although this year is not the most dry, as many air conditioners have expressed, as a total amount of precipitation, which, by the way, is 35 to 40% less in the water pool of the dam. That is, without the construction of new dams, without the rehabilitation of existing dams Bulgaria, unfortunately, in the long term is facing a very serious crisis related to the normal provision of drinking water for a large part of the population. It's good that these efforts are already working. For the first time in more than 30 years, new dams are being built Although problems will be resolved by the prescribed deadlines to Panagyurishte, more than 100,000 people will be provided there, as the water system of Pazardzhik, besides Panagyurishte and its environment, can also be bandaged. The rehabilitation of Studena dam, Kyustendil dam, the next one to be started must be financed, Cherni Osam dam. Pleven and Lovech without the Black Osam Dam, I do not want to be a bad prophet, but it will be difficult to guarantee that anyone is in power, of course, in such climatic and hydrological conditions, it will be difficult to guarantee normal water supply in the aspect of local water sources that are drying up. And not only do they dry out, their flow rates are 20, 30, sometimes up to 100% lower than previous years. Lovech was two years ago on a water regime, only the winter months, when again a water farm group "Black Osam" was less than 400 liters per second as a flow rate. Of course, the local community is firmly opposed in other settlements in the country. But whether the interest of the local public, i.e. two or three or four thousand people, I was also a national representative from this electoral area, or the interest and need of more than 200,000 users of the water service is greater, this will be judged by all managers and locals, of course, and we as national users. Thank you for your attention. I've been too long maybe, sorry about that. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u9	Thank you, Deputy Minister, for all your information. On behalf of a group? Please come in for a statement on behalf of a group. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Have a good job!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u10	He can stay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u11	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What did we find out from this hearing? We're shocked that the Deputy Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u12	He has no right on that point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u13	A declaration on behalf of a group, but you have no right on the subject that is currently. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u14	She's not on the agenda. It's not on Parliament's agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u15	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u16	Colleagues, read these rules. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u17	And so do you sometimes. We all have to read the rules. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u18	We're shocked by the fact that the Deputy Minister here said he found out from the media that besides Pernik, there is a regime in other cities. That's a sentence that says everything! And confirms yesterday's words of carelessness and frustration. Ministers read from the media where there is a problem with water!? [[GERB lines.]] The second confession, which says everything, said the District Governor of Pernik, by GERB, yesterday only, on the third year of her reign, according to the Deputy Minister had realized that she had powers and obligations on the issue of water supply in Pernik. And that says all about what kind of people you hire, do they know what they're there for and what their responsibilities are! And you admit that to the Deputy Minister, we didn't just say that yesterday. Third, you've passed the blame on to the water operators and directors, to the mayors. I'm opening a clamp: yesterday, Mr. Nankov, you took the liberty of blaming yourself for the national crisis with the water mayor of BSP. I was going to ask you yesterday who was the mayor of Pernik? What's the mayor of Shumen like? What's Lovech like before and now? Let's at least in this huge national crisis not be like this, because it doesn't matter what the mayor is, when 315,000 people, in your recognition, are in crisis and a water regime. I'm going back to my previous argument. You have transferred the blame, except to the water, to mayors, of course, at the time of the rain and snow, but you have taken no responsibility for the government's policies at national level in the water sector. Now you will take one or two resignations to suppress tensions among the people of Pernik and other settlements, but that does not solve the problem. Remember, dear colleagues, when they were overflowing dams and flooding Varna, they were pouring in Miziya, not to mention other places, what did a minister from the government say, a lady was then? Well, get used to it, dear Bulgarians, there are global climate changes, from now on it will be so, the dams will overflow and drown you. Now there is no water in the dams, and the reason is the same. Well, get used to it, dear Bulgarians, you'll be carrying beds for years because there are climate changes and droughts! You cannot fully justify this, because you have also said yourself what is one of the main reasons.. 75% of the water is lost, leaks out because there is no replaced and rehabilitated water supply network. Whose responsibility is that? The governments of Boyko Borisov in the last ten years. What are you saying here? From now on, we need to replace the plumbing system, we need to do this, we need to start projects. Where have you been for ten years? Is this your first day in power and you're telling us what's supposed to happen? Why didn't this happen for ten years? How much money has flown into this system and where is the people's money, at least from the increase in the cost of water? Where's the money from the operational programs? According to your official information, statistics of state institutions have replaced 0.5% of the water supply network in the country.. 0.5 in ten years! And now you're to blame for the rain, the snow, the sun, the drought and global warming. No! It is your fault that in the last ten years, the frustration now to solve the problem and the terrifying data that you are exporting for the first time here today is 320 thousand people already in the regime. There'll probably be more. And the answer, at least for Pernik, is: in two years the problem will be solved. You're gonna keep them in mode for two years? You say: now we've been exploring alternative sources for four days. The problem in Pernik has been at least two and a half years. You have now been exploring alternative sources for the last four days. You say that annual, monthly, daily forecasts and reports have been submitted by the Water and Canal Pernik. Well, ten years, reading these annual projections, what did you do, so in the last four days, you knew there was a Vladai Canal, and from there you could get water? I think there's no need for the opposition to talk about what the Minister and the Deputy Minister have brought up. It's suicide. You cut off your own heads today with that statement. Look, I only quote their facts that confirm our words. It's not your sun. It's not your water. It's not your water. It's not your water. Guilty is the carefree and incompetent rule in the last ten years.. Ten! ..and the frustration of the same government today to solve the problem. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We'll continue with the agenda. Honourable Members of Parliament, after agreement has been reached by the Conference of Presidents, I propose that at the fourth point of the weekly Programme projects for decisions on changes in the Standing Committees should be included, discussed and voted and draft decisions submitted by the parliamentary groups yesterday. The proposed changes are related to the newly announced MPs. Please, voting mode. They voted 132 MPs: 131 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose the inclusion of a new point in our weekly Programme "Project of a decision to extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Moreover" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio, importers Toma Bikov and a group of MPs, as a point for the meeting on Friday 22 November 2019. Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 116, against 5, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. One message: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 88, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we withdraw the submitted Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Board of Internal Security and Public Order. No 954-02-106 of 13 November 2019 Importers "Iskren Veselinov and Valentin Kasabov. " Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE CORPORATE PORTUNITY Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u20	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Let's continue reading §37. 13: "13." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." a copy of the authorisation to enter the establishment into regular operation or any other document certifying its purpose issued by the relevant competent authority or indicating the individualising data of the authorisation granted and the administrative authority on the basis of which the information can be established by service; (b) c. 6 shall be added at the end, or the individualised data of the documents issued and the administrative authority of issue, on the basis of which the information can be established by a service path. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57b, para. 6, p. 6 the individualised data of the document issued and the administrative authority of issue on the basis of which the information can be established by a service path shall be added or indicated. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 3 the individualised data of the document issued and the administrative authority of issue on the basis of which the information can be established by a service path shall be added or indicated; (b) c. 4 the individualised data of the document concerned, on the basis of which the information can be established by business means by reference in the inter-regreet exchange environment, shall be added or indicated. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 2 shall be added after the word "supplied' from the date of issue. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 3 the individualised data of the document issued and the administrative authority of issue on the basis of which the information can be established by a service path shall be added or indicated; (b) c. 4 the individualised data of the document concerned, on the basis of which the information can be established by business means by reference in the inter-regreet exchange environment, shall be added or indicated. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58z, para. 2 shall be added after the word "supplied' from the date of issue. 19. Section III shall be established in chapter four with art. 76f: "Department III" Delivery of excise goods in cases under art. 131d of the Value Added Tax Act Art. 76f. In cases referred to in art. 131d of the Value Added Tax Act and provided that the goods supplied are excise, the procedure under art. 76c, taking into account the specifics concerned. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 1 is amended as In the case of placing goods under customs procedure, the full amount of excise duty due shall be secured by a deposit in cash or by a bank guarantee under the customs legislation procedure. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 5 the word "extremely" is replaced by "repeated" and a third sentence is created: "In an extended period of time for the submission of a declaration, the time limit for the payment of the excise duty due shall not be extended. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90g, para. 4 shall be added after the word "supplied' from the date of issue. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: the place of destination referred to in the electronic administrative document or the authorised place of direct delivery and, where the goods are received from a registered consignee or from a temporary registered consignee, the unloading shall be carried out only at the premises indicated in the certificate or authorisation concerned; (b) the creation of para. 5 and 6: The unloading of excise goods sent to an excise-free end-user shall be carried out only at the premises indicated in the relevant certificate. (6) A change of the means of transport carrying excise goods under suspension of excise duty and excise goods intended for excise duty-free end-user shall be made only after prior written or electronic notification to the responsible territorial directorate. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93, para. 14 shall be added after the word "supplied' from the date of issue. 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the words sent via the mailing network....are replaced by the use of postal services for sending or receiving. (b) para. 2 the words "sends of postal services related to "sends of mail' are replaced by "sends of mail'; (c) paragraphs 3 and 4 are amended as follows: suppliers and recipients are obliged to submit an identity document and, upon request, the postal operator shall open the consignment in person or submit the consignment for review and verification. In order to prevent the acceptance, transfer and delivery through the postal network of prohibited excise goods and tobacco waste, the postal operator may request documents related to the origin of the goods sent and information recommended by the customs authorities from the submitters. (4) In order to prevent and detect violations of the law and to secure the security of postal consignments, the customs authorities shall interact with the relevant security structures of postal operators by providing each other in writing or in electronic form: 1. information about risk senders and/or recipients; 2. information on risk consignments, including data from the transport documents; 3. information on payments made from which it can be assumed whether excise duty is included in the value of the goods sent or received; 4. information from the technical devices and software used by postal operators. (d) in para. 5 the words "the reference contains the excise duties' shall be replaced by "the accepted consignment contains the prohibited excise duties' and the words "the nearest customs office' shall be replaced immediately by the customs authorities; (e) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: After an order from the customs authorities, the postal operator may open a risky postal consignment without the consent of the sender. The consignment shall be opened in a room with continuous video surveillance and a record shall be drawn up in the presence of witnesses. In the event of the established presence of prohibited goods under para. 1 The consignment shall be held for inspection under para. 6.2-See Annex II to this Regulation. (f) the creation of para. 10: In preparing the transport document, the submitter shall note whether the postal consignment contains excise goods or tobacco waste. The postal operator may require clarification or their more detailed description. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103 are created. 8.... In the cases referred to in art. 69, para. 5 of the Tax Procedure Code, the owner or user of the places where the evidence is left shall have the duty of their keeper. The physical evidence shall be transmitted for safekeeping against signature. (9) The Guardian under para. 8 He is obliged to keep the things that are left in storage as a good owner, not to dispose of them, and to take all measures to store them. (10) In providing evidence representing excise goods, the customs authorities may impose ex ante safeguard measures in order to prevent transactions and actions with the assets of the persons examined, which will make the recovery of public claims impossible or significantly difficult. (11) The interim measures under para. 10 are imposed by a decree of customs officers appointed by order of the Director of the Customs Agency. (12) The imposition and appeal of provisional precautionary measures shall be carried out in accordance with the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. The appeal is before the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Customs Agency at the scene of the actions to secure the evidence. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: For the purposes of para. 1 the customs offices defined in § 1, t. 25, point (c) of the Additional Provisions of the Customs Act, have the competence of the territorial departments of the National Revenue Agency, the Director of the Customs Agency has the powers of executive director of the National Revenue Agency, and the directors of the territorial departments of the Customs Agency have the powers of directors of the territorial departments of the National Revenue Agency. (b) in para. 3 a second sentence is created: "In the cases of art. 114, para. 4 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, where the powers under art. 112, para. 2 of the same Code shall be exercised by the Director of the Customs Agency, the reasoned proposal shall be drawn up by the audit authority. 28. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 after the word "send or "send' is added; (b) the creation of para. 4. A natural person who sends, transports or carries tobacco products or alcoholic beverages to another Member State in quantities of a commercial nature shall be punished with a fine of 1000 to 4000 BGN and, in case of a repeated infringement, with a fine of 3000 to 6000 BGN. For quantities of a commercial nature, quantities exceeding the levels set out in the Rules of Implementation of the Law shall be considered. 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114a para. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: A person who unloads in a place other than that referred to in art. 91b, para. 1 and 5, or change the means of transport without prior notification to the competent territorial directorate under art. 91b, para. 6, shall be punished with a penalty of double the amount of excise duty, but not less than 4000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the penalty is double the amount of the excise duty, but not less than 8000 BGN 30. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 122b: Art. 122b. (1) Person who violates Art. 47b, para. 2? 10 and para. 13, is punished with a penalty of 1000 to 5000 BGN, with the penalty of 2000 to 8000 BGN in case of repeated infringement. (2) Person who violates art. 47b, para. 1, 11 and 12 is punished with a penalty of 3,000 to 8000 BGN, with the penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 1 after the words. 123b, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until 32. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124b para. 2 is amended as The enforcement of the administrative measure referred to in paragraph 2 shall be subject to the following conditions: 1 shall apply by a reasoned order of the Director of the competent territorial directorate or of an official authorised by him on the location of the site. 33. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 126c: Art. 126c. (1) Whoever violates Art. 103, para. 8 and 9 shall be punished with a fine for individuals from 1000 to 5000 BGN, or with a charge for legal persons and sole traders, from 2000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is from 2000 to 7000 BGN and the charge fee is from 5000 to 15 000 BGN. 34. Everywhere in the law, the words "the Director of the customs office responsible" and "the Director of the customs office responsible" shall be replaced, respectively, by "the Director of the Head Office responsible" and "the Director of the Head Office responsible." Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in connection with the withdrawal of the proposal for a member of parliament from the National Assembly of Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for art. 47b, para. 4 During the Commission meeting, the report shall renumber the paragraphs in art. 47b, but the correction is not reflected in the references to the relevant paragraphs in the texts of art. Art. 47b. 122b. I would therefore like to make the following legal and technical amendments: ............................................... Article 10 concerning Art. 47b, para. 4 the words? 3 and 4 shall be replaced In para. 7 and 10 words. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to In para. 11, 12 and 13 words............................................................................................... The following points are inserted after Also in t. 30 concerning Art. 122b, para. 1 words "al." 2? 10 and para. The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 2? 9 and para. 12. In para. 2 words. 1, 11 and 12............................................................................................................. 1, 10 and 11
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u21	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will put aside the procedure that has been adopted in substance by the Transitional and Final Provisions, to make such significant changes to the Law on excises and tax warehouses and thus to circumvent all negative and negative opinions that have been tabled by the Council of Ministers and are aged in the National Assembly. But I would like to draw attention to a fact that is extremely disturbing, namely: the changes that were just read in art. 24e, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 58, para. Article 2 (1) (a) 58z, para. 2 which, in substance, what is changing that, in the various documents issued by the Director of the responsible Customs Directorate, which are subject to prior implementation, you add the words from the date of issue. In essence, this means that all those documents which are issued under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, the various registrations under this Law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I understand that most likely the motive for this was that you had a problem handing over these documents. There are various cases concerning the date from which the pre-execution is accepted. However, notice, at the end of 2018, by order of the Director of the Customs Agency, rules are introduced for electronic service of such type of documents and is included in the Department of Electronic Governance. There are different regimes under the Law on excises and tax warehouses in which people are contacted electronically. With this change in substance all efforts that are in the direction of the introduction of e-government, you delete them and from now on you make it easier for the document to start valid from the date of issue by the customs director. In essence, you will bring very severe cases and situations to all persons in their business. Because they can essentially be incorrect both to the fissure and to their users, doing their business, as at least they will not be aware that a registration or a regime has been revoked from them. This will lead to very difficult situations in their work and will put them in the inability to be correct. Literally hours ago, we adopted amendments to the VAT Act. This is another indirect tax similar to the excise tax and tax warehouses. The NRA didn't ask for the pre-execution mode there. You know, as described in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code and Administrative Procedure Code (PCC and APC), that is where the normal rules apply. What prompted the Law on excises and tax warehouses to introduce such an entirely new regime? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are making a great precedent and you are violating basic principles in DODK and APK with these changes, you will create a lot of interference in all subjects who want to be correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. Please vote on the editorial amendment Mrs. Angelova made. Vote 99 MPs: 70 against 28, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the whole paragraph with the newly adopted editorial amendment and the revision of § 24, which becomes § 37 of the Commission Report. Votes... Revoting the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u24	Madam President, I request a re-voting procedure. The vote was put on under one minute, and there were a lot of colleagues who couldn't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Repeat the vote on this paragraph. They voted 111 MPs: 77, against 33, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u26	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Finance shall establish in accordance with it the rules for the implementation of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses and the regulations under art. 103a, para. 2 and para. 4 of the same law. (2) Within three months of the entry into force of the amendments and additions to the regulations under para. 1 persons who have received certificates under art. 24b, para. 6 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, bring their activities in accordance with the requirements of art. 24a, para. 3, p. 8 - 11 of the same law, and notification to the Director of the territorial directorate of the location of the site. (3) Until the entry into force of the relevant act of the Director of the territorial directorate for compliance with the requirements of art. 24a, para. 3, p. 8 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, persons who have notified under para. 2, continue their activities as an excise-free end-user. (4) Within three months of the entry into force of the amendments and additions under para. 1 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on excises and tax warehouses authorised warehousekeepers shall submit a request for coordination of the construction of the video surveillance system under art. 47b of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (5) Within three months of the date of issue of the relevant act of coordination of the request under para. 4 The licensed warehousekeepers shall bring their activities in accordance with the requirements of art. 47b of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (6) Until the relevant act of the Director of the Customs Agency shall enter into force for compliance under para. 5 with the requirements of art. 47b of the Law on excises and tax warehouses persons applying under para. 4, continue their activities as licensed warehousekeepers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u27	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 38, supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: for 85, against 15, abstentioned 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u28	Under § 25, there is a proposal of the MP Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 39, and shall propose the following wording: .............................................................................. In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2, p. 7 after the words "alternative investment fund managers' the addition of "group investment undertakings' shall be added; (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: 2. (c) in para. 6 is finally a comma and is added except where required by law. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 9. (aa) c. 1 after the word the audit is added to the single traders who did not operate during the reporting period; (bb) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." all other undertakings that did not operate during the reporting period; this circumstance shall be declared once for the first reporting period in which no activity was carried out by means of a model declaration validated by the Minister of Finance's order; the declaration shall be published by 31 March of the following year as follows: (a) by the persons referred to in para. 1, t. 1 and 2 in the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities; (b) of the persons referred to in para. 1, t. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (b) New para. are created. 10 and 11: The sole traders under para. 9, p. 1 shall not submit a declaration that they did not operate during the reporting period. (11) Fees under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities for publication of the declarations under para. 9, p. 2 are not due. c) the current para. 10 becomes para. 12; (d) the current para. 11 becomes para. 13 and amended as follows: The Registry Agency shall provide, in electronic form, the National Revenue Agency with lists of enterprises which: 1. have not declared their annual financial statements for the previous year within the time limits under para. 1 and 2; the list shall be provided by 31 July of the current year; 2. have declared a declaration in the trade register and the register of non-profit legal entities under para. 9, p. 2; the list shall be provided by 30 April of the current year. (e) the creation of para. 14 and 15: The lists referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 13 should contain the name of the enterprise and the EIC from the commercial register and the register of non-profit legal entities. (15) Within two months of receipt of the lists under para. 13 The National Revenue Agency shall take the necessary measures for carrying out checks and identification of infringements under para. 1.. 12.... 12............................................................................. 3. In the Additional Provisions: (a) in § 4, the words "with the exception of the applicable accounting base' are deleted; (b) paragraph 5 is repealed; (c) Paragraph 5b shall be created: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In case, according to the applicable accounting standards, development costs are recognised as an intangible asset, the distribution of dividends by the entity shall not be allowed until the full depreciation or write-off of that intangible asset, unless the value of the reserves (funds) of the entity for which distribution is permissible in accordance with the requirements of a regulatory act and the undistributed profit of past years is at least equal to the carrying amount of the recognised intangible asset.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches on this paragraph? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 25, which shall become § 39 of the Commission Report. Vote 120 MPs: 94, against 13, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u30	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 40, with the words.................................................................................................. 2s are replaced by "Paragraph 39," t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u31	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 40 with the corresponding adjustments supported by the Commission and the text of the importer for § 27, which shall also be § 41, which shall also be supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 89 against 9, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u32	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 27a. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create § 42: .............................................................................. In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71b, para. 2 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." persons not exceeding at least two of the following indicators by 31 December of the preceding year: (a) balance sheet value of the assets - 38 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) net sales revenue - 76 000 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) average number of staff over the reporting period of 250 persons; (c) average number of staff for the reporting period of 250 persons; (c) average number of staff for the reporting period 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 162, para. 2 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. for amounts unduly paid and overpaid, as well as for amounts unduly received or unlawfully used under projects financed by European Union funds, including their related national co-financing, which arise on the basis of an administrative act, including financial corrections, an overpaid advance, overpaid percentage limits, excess positions on the project budget, cross-financing, as well as fines and other monetary penalties provided for in national and European Union law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u33	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly created § 42, supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 94, against 10, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u34	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 27a: ..created § 27a: "Says" and "Says" and "Says" and "Says" and "Says" and "Says" and "Says" and "Says" and "Says." In the Public Finance Act of art. 52, para. 1, t. 1 letters shall be created: (e) one fifth of the amount of taxes paid on the income of natural persons by persons with permanent address in the territory of the municipality concerned; (g) one tenth of the amount of the value added tax imported from retail outlets registered on the territory of the municipality concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 27b. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 43: ..................................................... In the Credit Institutions Act of art. 62, para. 11 shall be added at the end as well as under art. 25, para. 3 of the National Revenue Agency Act
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u35	Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we have made is a fifth of the amount of income tax on individuals with a permanent address to remain in the municipalities and a tenth of the amount of VAT imported from retail outlets. Why are we making this offer? Every year, at the end of the tax year, it turns out that the state budget is always on surplus, and municipal budgets are always chronically underfunded. In the election program of each of the parties present in this Parliament, it is written that it will work for real decentralisation, which means more rights and more powers for the Bulgarian municipalities, as Brussels talks about Europe of the regions. However, in order to have more rights and be able to exercise their powers, municipalities must also have additional funding, which unfortunately does not happen. So we propose, as it was years ago, if you remember, there was a period in which a profit tax was divided into two times the majority of it for the state, a smaller part for the municipalities, there was a period in which part of the total income tax also remained in the municipalities, and the municipalities were much more independent. What is happening in recent years is that every year the state delegates more and more duties to municipalities, especially in the social sphere, anyway social activities for the benefit of the population - 80% of them are implemented by the Bulgarian municipalities without being paid with any funding. Therefore, as I said just now, Bulgarian municipalities, including large municipalities, are chronically underfunded. In order to perform their functions, they must become financially independent. That is why we are making this proposal so that the mayors of municipalities do not have to line up before the Ministry of Finance and before the Council of Ministers to beg for additional funding each year. And in order not to impose the Prime Minister with these famous decrees of the Council of Ministers to grant alms for the Bulgarian municipalities, and for certain of them here a million, there two million, there to make their square... That's not right. We have always protested against this and have always argued that municipalities must become financially independent, and this must be done with amendments to the Law. That is why we propose these changes and we expect you to support them, if we are really talking about real and not fictitious decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov? You refuse. A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the debates on the adoption of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, we said we would present our proposals during its second reading for a greater financial independence of the Bulgarian municipalities. These proposals relate not only to providing additional funds for capital expenditure, for maintaining a municipal road network, for financing social services, for all local activities that are of great importance to every citizen of the Bulgarian municipality, but are also a prerequisite for binding the policies of municipalities for greater economic activity and job creation. I call on you, colleagues, to seriously discuss this proposal of ours, because in the long term it will be of great importance for the development of Bulgarian municipalities. Then we can seriously discuss the possibility of a more flexible municipal tax policy, but certainly such sharing of revenues between a state and a municipality will provide the basis for a more peaceful municipal policy aimed at the priorities of the citizens of the Bulgarian municipalities. I will give an example of what impact the adoption of such a proposal for the municipalities of my constituency of Vratsa region will make. According to statistics, about 11,000. lv. the average annual salary of employed and employed employees, and at around 38 thousand employed per year, this will provide more than 8 million. $800,000. lv. additional funds for the municipalities of Vratsa region, or about 53 leva. additionally per person from all municipalities in the territory of Vratsa district. For a small municipality with a population of about 6,000 people, and there are several in Vratsa, which are in an extremely severe socio-economic situation, this will provide additional for local activities around 300 thousand. lv. Annually. First of all, this is not much of an effort for the national budget, second of all this will allow a small municipality with such resources to provide, for example, funding for the whole range of social services it develops in the territory of the municipality, or to make possible a serious renovation, or rehabilitation, of the municipal road network on the territory of this municipality. This example only shows how significant this proposal is. I hope it will be seriously discussed in the debate. I call on you together to take a very serious step towards ensuring not so much financial independence as a financial calm for the future of local self-government in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[(Applause and cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal is synchronized with the mood of the largest organization in Bulgaria "The Association of Bulgarian Municipalities." At the end of the last term of his last annual meeting, the Bulgarian municipalities had one of the main ones, such as a message to the next term, the one who started the next term, said it was good, in financial relations, because the municipalities, these two thirds of public services they provide, offer shared services with the state, to give two percentage points of income tax. Just on Friday, on the day that we had a debate here, a parliamentary inquiry with the finance minister, again the Association of Municipalities, the expert composition of municipalities, the finance experts from this term, together with the Institute of Market Economics, debated just that again. Dear colleagues, that is, if you hear and you claim to have received at the moment a large approval majority in local authorities such as positioning, and if you hear the voice of the largest non-governmental organization, the Bulgarian municipalities, and if you hear the financial experts regarding the reduced public resources, which is fairly distributed to the Bulgarian municipalities, then today you must support this proposal. I think that here, Minister Goranov's behaviour was irresponsible, who said that, and I hope that you do not share it, or if you share it, let someone come out to say it, no, it will be 10% points if they want municipalities to put two above. Because I remember in the campaign how the Prime Minister finely managed to limit Tomislav Donchev's speech in relation to what he had become involved in these two percentage points above. What is the bill - 750 million total for Bulgarian municipalities, 19 500 kilometers fourth-class network. There's no money. You've seen what the capital list is in the budget that we're currently collecting. He's got demographic problems. Local authorities don't have financial resources. If you count on fair distribution of what will be an excess or which will be gathered in excess and poured out like a stellar rain, then there is still no fair way to go to the Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, I appeal to you, realizing your parliamentary conduct in the Bulgarian Parliament, support this proposal. Not that we offer it, the opposition, it sounds from the public, it sounds from the Bulgarian municipalities, it sounds from the financial experts. The experts themselves say that no longer can municipalities be held with such a small financial resource. That's why I think there are possibilities. Moreover, when the mayor is committed to this tax, he will be more involved in caring about what is the salary in businesses, if there is a grey sector, the relations between the mayor and entrepreneurs will be stimulated, those who precisely earn those funds that are distributed and now enter into the central budget. With regard to VAT funds. Well, if you remember the early Borisov as the mayor of Sofia, I remember him, he first came with a folder to a meeting of the Association of Municipalities and said: "My friend, the mayor of Stuttgart, told me to take a percentage of the VAT, because the money is not enough. Then, with the great financial resources of the mayor of Sofia, Borisov insisted on a percentage of VAT for municipalities?! And then I know how people change, because I also know a Committee of Regions, local and other authorities, usually, unfortunately, this is what happens: when we are in the local authorities, we want decentralisation, a formula that we now offer, because you de facto froze it, and when you are in the central authorities, you want centralisation. Come on, let's make some fair regulation. And if you are for such fair regulation, for attitude not only to municipalities, to Bulgarian citizens is primarily this public resource, support this proposal of ours. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will be extremely brief because I cannot put up with this statement on the left side of this House. Firstly, colleagues, when you want to amend the Public Finance Act, get acquainted with § 4 of the same law, which states that the Public Finance Act can only be amended by the Public Finance Act, not by the Transitional and Final Provisions of other laws. [[Noise and lines.]] This is written in the Law because I hear lines from the Chamber. Colleagues, you can replicate me later. First of all, that is to say, your proposal is unlawful, but here we are looking at it in this House, and I kind of accept your arguments. I will tell you this: your proposal, which is in the Law and we are looking at today, will lead to an even greater imbalance for me. Because, colleagues, agree, where do you collect more taxes? Where, of course, there is more economic turnover. These are the major centers of Bulgaria. The big cities of four or five cities will receive hundreds of millions more than the redistribution you want through tax retention, and there will be none for smaller municipalities. Agree that your proposal will not lead to anything, on the contrary, to the deepening of imbalances. It was the government's policy, aimed at this, that we looked at last year, colleagues, in budget 2018. What did we do there? You can replicate me again. For me, the changes adopted then in the mechanisms for redistribution of capital expenditure and the matching subsidy for municipalities are a very positive step, colleagues. What did we say there? Of the large municipalities that really have an economic turnover, taxes are collected, they will not take such a reassigning subsidy and capital expenditure at the expense of these smaller municipalities, which have given due to problems in the administration, fewer staff, not so large specialists in their revenue and so on, collect less than 120% per capita than the rest of the state. It is a targeted policy, colleagues, to change such an imbalance. We are really helping such municipalities that cannot handle themselves, so I would not support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Either way, we're all talking about financial decentralisation, but there isn't one. If you don't like it, offer your model. This model operates in a large part of the European Member States. Yes, it is a fact that those who are in large cities may receive more funds, but we also need to think about smaller cities where, of course, people are stimulated and really there is a real payment of taxes on personal incomes, because ultimately the money will remain precisely in these municipalities. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable for mayors to depend on the wishes of the Minister of Finance or on the Prime Minister's blessing, because that is what happens. Some mayors are even humiliated to go to the Prime Minister's office, some even wear national costumes to show how big patriots they are, just to get funding for a particular infrastructure site. We say that this humiliation should no longer be repeated and we propose a concrete measure. Well, you, as always, reject this measure, but offer nothing. Let everything remain the same and, as Mrs. Menda Stoyanova said, also from the same. Yes, but this has also caused these huge regional inequalities, and that is why we are trying to propose concrete measures. I am putting aside the fund. We believe that there should be a separate fund for Northwestern Bulgaria. I'm sure you will also deny that, but how do you see this financial decentralisation? Here, we are proposing a concrete measure. You say, no, we don't like it. What do you suggest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u45	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Klisurska. Second line. Mrs. Yankova, third.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are aware of the financial resources that the state is ultimately putting aside for the municipalities 200 million. lv. Of these, about 5 billion and more are transfers from the state, of which only 2 billion are municipal revenues. Is this the fiscal decentralisation we're talking about here? I believe that your arguments, which you have now expressed about small municipalities, have their reasons. We really need to think seriously about how to make small municipalities have a working mechanism to support these municipalities, because many of them are decapitalised, in most of them there is no economy, in most of them there are not enough jobs. This financial breakdown, which I pointed out to you, Mr. Ivanov, shows that municipalities do not have adequate own resources and are entirely dependent on transfers. The lack of such an adequate own resource does not allow municipalities to conduct a reasonable, independent policy, to meet the needs and priorities of their municipalities. So I think that we should all take the first step in this House to support this proposal and further develop it. I think that in the Public Finance Act last year, when we proposed and looked at the State Budget Act, we amended it into Transitional and Final Provisions, so let's follow up on the practice of you, ladies and gentlemen ruling when, with Transitional and Final Provisions, we amend other laws. With regard to the unlawful introduction of an amendment to the Public Finance Act, you are also to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u47	Thank you. Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ivanov, regarding the amendments with Transitional and Final Provisions, you know that this is mass practice for you. If we're going to have to replicate you and start from all the laws from here on out, it means that we have to ask you questions all the time and ask you about it. Look at what you're proud of! Yeah, some little footprints, for little crumbs, every budget has. The association now has a protocol that it's not satisfied that it wants more, but I'm going to ask you a question. Imagine that you are the mayor of Borino and received from the Finance Minister 270 thousand capital subsidy. Well, will you be very happy even if you are GERB? You'll say, "But a great joy.".. 270 thousand. lv. There was a capital subsidy, and the revenues were no more than 100 thousand, and you started there were some villages of Chala, Yagodina, Kojari, Buynovo and the settlement itself. Well, great joy! What's going on? It is not a question that with the funds that will be collected at the moment, this enables the state itself to make a fairer distribution within the public finances itself, we propose another step towards finding additional financial resources for the Bulgarian municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear replicators, thank you for your lines. Colleagues, I have not yet seen your arguments why we should support your proposal, but I will be even clearer and firmer in why I will not support it. First of all, because here from this tribune, when we talk, we need our self-esteem to be positive and we need to know what we've done before. When we talk, especially about roads in small towns, I will remind you of the state of the roads in 2007 and tell me, then in Bulgaria was there a completed highway, colleagues? One highway from the beginning to the end when we have highways built and when the highway will be built. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" With what quality are the lotts? "]] ... If you're talking about poor lotts, what time were they made because you replicated me from the gym? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u51	Which one's finished?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u52	"Maritsa", "Trakiya", "Struma". [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u53	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. Because, colleagues, you are talking about tax collection, about funds in the country, lightening the economy, yes, colleagues, 3% is smuggling. Remember at your time how long it's been, then give your grades. How much is Bulgaria's gross domestic product? How much is VAT? What are the tax revenues in the state and what is the total income tax from the state social security? Look at this stuff, guys. Then let's comment on them. We'll probably do that during the budget, but I'm still explaining the steps that were taken last year. Show me one step you have taken as governors. I told you our step, which has been taken. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Small steps."]] Some of the replicators said: small steps. They may be small, but they're in the right direction. Therefore, once again, I am telling you, especially about this law, which we have mentioned, the Law on Public Finance, § 4 is not entitled to be changed. Now, we've heard your arguments, but I'm still telling you that I wouldn't support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u55	Thank you. We are continuing with the statement of Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking this opportunity to put forward arguments regarding the proposal, which is part of a possible policy, a policy for decentralising the financial resources from the opportunities provided by the state budget. According to the practice established by the government of GERB, the opportunities of the Prime Minister personally, to each individual municipality, so that with these funds local self-government can compensate to some extent for the lack of a state, the lack of service to the individual in the different municipalities according to the conditions in which our fellow citizens live, as I personally believe that the local authorities, the mayor, municipal councillors are closest to the problems of the people and are the ones who should have the opportunity and with relevant financial resources to solve the problems that are of their fellow citizens. You strongly reject such a philosophy of decentralisation of financial resources. At the same time, you regularly transfer the commitments that require such a financial resource to local self-government without providing it. As a result at the moment all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria have obligations. Some of them are also in actual bankruptcy. You do not hear the arguments put forward by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, despite the increased transfers for the future period, that there is a shortage of more than 400 million. BGN, and you're taking it the same way, including with the arguments we've heard. By rejecting this philosophy, you are talking about highways, you are talking about fighting smuggling the same arguments that you think, on the principle of drop or on the principle of a hundred times repeated lie, it will become true. [[GERB's reply: "What is a lie? "]] Because you're calling out what's not a lie? Neither with regard to the construction of highways can you demonstrate with quality and with the achievement of what is necessary for the Republic of Bulgaria to secure transport corridors, nor with regard to the fight against smuggling. I'll give you a specific example. Personally, I, asking a question through the President of the National Assembly for a statement by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov at a forum of a national meeting of the Political Party GERB, explaining that during the office there are over 100 truck cigarettes smuggling, to give facts, to explain how it was established? Is there a guilty party, or is there a cover-up? There will be no answer, and there will be no answer, because you, following the example of your President, your leader, is the sole leader of GERB party, currently Prime Minister, are lying. You're lying and you don't want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u57	Mr. Iankov, you are saying something that is in violation of the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u58	...to adopt any measures to change the lives of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u59	I have to pay attention to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, please don't interrupt me, it's your homage and way of leading you to interrupt the speaker from the tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u61	Mr. Iankov, you're blaming an entire parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u62	Thank you for listening. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u63	Please be careful. - What's the line? [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other speeches? I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 135 MPs: for 48, against 55, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 43 with a text under the Commission Report. Vote 126 MPs: 84, against 30, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u64	Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of Parliament for the creation of a new § 28: A new § 28 shall be created with the following content: In the Law on pre-school and school education art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 2 yields the following species: Children's parents do not pay maintenance fees for activities not financed by the state budget, but for children in compulsory pre-school education only fees for food activities outside the funding of the state. Paragraph 28 becomes § 29. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish § 44: ..................................................... In the Law on Duty-Free Trade (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 19th para. 4 the words the territorial customs office at which the customs office of departure is replaced by the Territory Directorate in which the customs office of departure is replaced. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under § 28. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 45, and shall propose the following version: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2020, with the exception of § 30. 28 letters................................................................................................................ 35 letter............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 96 of the additional provisions of the Value Added Tax Act, which enter into force three days after the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u65	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 128 MPs: for 31, against 48, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I will now put two texts to the vote: the first is the Commission's proposal to create a new § 44 with a text under the Commission Report, and the second is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 28 by importer, which becomes § 45. Vote 124 MPs: 92 against 27, abstention 5. The proposals have been adopted, with which we have completed the Bill. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES TO RESPONSIBILITIES. The representatives of the National Assembly are Iskren Veselinov and Valentin Kasabov. I present to you: Project! DECISION amending the composition and management of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Krasimir Bogdanov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media and elects Maria Tsvetkova as a member and Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Maria Tsvetkova as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: 105, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Krasimir Bogdanov as a member and Vice-President of the Committee on Environment and Water. Please, voting mode. They voted 115 MPs: 113, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I give you the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition and management of the Commission on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Alexander Siddy as a member and Vice-President of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please, voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Siddy as a member and vice-chairman of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 107 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and the Commission's management of interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stoyan Bojinov as a member and vice-president of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stoyan Bozhinov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Emil Serafimov Tonchev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He elected Danka Evstatieva Zidarova-Lurtova as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Please, voting mode. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Evgenia Danylova Angelova as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 108, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Guseva as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. 2. He elected Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please, voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Mladen Nikolov Shishkov as Vice-President of the Committee on Environment and Water. 2. He elected Danka Evstatieva Zidarovaė-Lurtova as a member of the Committee on Environment and Water. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Evgenia Danylova Angelova as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Please, voting mode. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION completing the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Guseva as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Emil Serafimov Tonchev as a member of the Health Commission. Please, voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the management and composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 1, t. 3, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Irena Todorova Anastasova as Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He elected Evdokia Slavchova Asenova as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I present the next one: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Ivo Angelov Hristov as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy. 2. He elected Polina Alexandrova Shishkova as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 109, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Presenting: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3 t. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zhekova as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. 2. He elected Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please, voting mode. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Presenting: Project! DECISION completing the composition of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zhekova as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please, voting mode. They voted 107 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Presenting: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. Art. 21, para.1 and 3, and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ivo Angelov Hristov as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please, voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Presenting: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Desislav Petrov Taskov as a member of the Committee on Health. Please, voting mode. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. Presenting: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ilian Angelov Timchev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please, voting mode. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Presenting: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Martin Stefanov Obreshkov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please, voting mode. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. They voted 105 MPs: 59, none, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to re-vote this proposal. We may already be half an hour voting on the proposals of our BSP colleagues. So far, we have supported all the proposals that are normal, but there are only 22 people in this House. They do not support their own proposals. Please re-vote. Of course, invite your colleagues to gather to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u67	I'm waiting. Here we go. Colleagues come in. It's a rethink of the proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there are only two more proposals. Presenting: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. She elected Smilyana Nikolova Niva-Krusteva as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. 2. He elected Dobrin Nenov Danev as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Please, voting mode. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Presenting the last one: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Dobrin Nenov Danev as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Please, voting mode. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Thirty minutes of interruption. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u68	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly. The next item is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RECEIVE OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS to carry out a standard on the conformity of the information submitted by the Ministry of Defence of NATO, linked to the costs of the Bulgarians' election, in line with the NATO's classification and requirements. Dear Mrs. Ilieva, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision amending the decision of the National Assembly on the award of the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO related to Bulgaria's defence expenditure according to the NATO classification and requirements At a meeting held on 14 November 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. A letter from the President of the Court of Auditors was received in the Committee on Budget and Finance and Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov asked to extend the deadline for carrying out the audit until 10 February 2020, and the deadline for submitting the final audit report to 28 February 2020, with the following reasons: The average duration of compliance audits shall be four to five months. During the period of implementation of the audit task, there are many non-working days which pose a risk of delay in the process of providing the information necessary for the purpose of the audit. At the stage of planning the implementation of the audit task, the audit team should carry out a thorough examination of documents in English and the information contained therein is confidential. For the implementation of audit procedures and analysis of data of a specific nature and terminology, a larger time resource than initially foreseen is needed. Also, audit-related documents and information are provided by officials from several structural units in the Ministry of Defence and Processing and Analyzing requires additional time. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 20 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and accept the following: Project! DECISION amending the National Assembly decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit on the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO relating to Bulgaria's defence expenditure under the NATO classification and requirements The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED amends the decision of the National Assembly on the award of the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the information provided by the Ministry of Defence to NATO related to Bulgaria's defence expenditure under the NATO classification and requirements (No. 86 from 2019), such as: 1. in t. 2 the words "shower 30 November 2019' are replaced by "shower 10 February 2020'; 2. in t. 3 the words s "20 December 2019" shall be replaced by "28 February
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. Committee on Legal Affairs You have the floor for the presentation of the Report, Dear Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Ms. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Miglena Pavlova, Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, and Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Ministry of Finance and Methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u72	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the admitted persons to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u73	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. At its meeting held on 14 November 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. The meeting was attended by the Public Procurement Agency: Mrs. Miglena Pavlova Executive Director, Mrs. Galya Manassieva Director of the Directorate of Public Procurement and Methodology and Mrs. Hristina Deneva-Kircheva Head of the Legal and Methodology Department. The bill was presented by Mrs. Miglena Pavlova, who pointed out that the amendments are related to the phase-in and implementation of an electronic procurement platform. The introduction of the electronic platform in the Public Procurement Register (public procurement register) also provides for publication of documents, interpretations, protocols and reports of the work of the committees for carrying out the procedures and the jury in project contests, contracts, framework agreements and annexations thereto, as well as sub-contracts. In order to extend the publicity, the invitations to certain persons should be published in addition to the notices for the collection of tenders in the Public Procurement Register. Mrs. Pavlova noted that a change is proposed allowing an authorising officer of a higher degree, not just a senior, to award contracts for the needs of its authorising officers with a lower degree budget. The bill changes the way in which the estimated value is calculated, which is dictated by the difficulties of contracting entities established in practice with regard to its scope and applicability to the different award regimes, as well as with regard to the time when the estimated value is determined. In certain cases, it is objectively impossible to determine the estimated value by means of market surveys or consultations in the light of which the new version of the provision does not provide for an obligation but regulates an opportunity by which the contracting entity can determine the current market value of the contract. Essential amendments are proposed in the framework of the qualification systems used by sectoral contracting entities. The rules for the establishment and operation of the qualification system and for the use of one created by another contracting entity are supplemented and refined. The way in which specific contracts are awarded through a qualification system and a dynamic purchasing system is regulated by a decision of the contracting authority which is subject to appeal. The Bill proposes amendments which relate to the clarification of the provisions on internal (in-house) award. One of the conditions for its application relating to the existence of direct private capital participation in the controlled legal person is completed. It is stated that the existence of private capital is permissible if it arises from provisions of national law which are in accordance with the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The aim of the change is to achieve more precise compliance with the requirements of the European directives. Mrs. Pavlova noted that the Bill provides the necessary legal prerequisites for further development of the process of introducing fully electronic procurement in the country. At the same time, the refined legal framework will facilitate the implementation of the Law by the entities of the public procurement process and help establish correct and irreconcilable practice. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev, Hamid Hamid and Krum Zarkov. People's representatives Hristian Mitev and Hamid Hamid expressed their support for the bill. Mr. Zarkov noted that he expressed support for the principle relating to electronic procurement and electronic payment, but would refrain from supporting the bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u74	Thank you. Report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u75	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. At its regular meeting on 20 November 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Miglena Pavlova Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Public Procurement and methodology. The amendments proposed by the Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act are related to the process of phase-in of electronic procurement. It will be implemented through a centralised electronic platform. In this regard, the Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act (Event No. 86 from 2018) changes have been made, some of which are due to enter into force with the planned introduction of the platform. Other changes are related to the failure found by the European Commission in introducing one of the conditions for the so-called internal (in-house) award. One of the main amendments to the Bill is the clarification of the provisions on internal (in-house) award. It is possible in the presence of comprehensive conditions. According to one of them, the controlled legal entity should not have a direct private capital contribution. Exception shall be allowed for forms of private capital participation where required by provisions of national law in accordance with the TEU and the TFEU and they are not related to control or blocking powers and do not have a decisive influence on the controlled legal person. Article 12 (1) (c) of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC, respectively, art. 28 (1) (c) of Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors and repealing Directive 2004/17/EC. In the present context, there is no condition that private capital in the legal person derives from national provisions which comply with the TEU and the TFEU. In order to achieve full implementation of the requirements of the directives in application of the exemption and under the commitment made to the European Commission, an addition has been made to art. 14, para. 1, t. Article 5 (b) and (c) 14, para. 1, t. 7 (c) and 7 (c) and 7 (c) 149, para. 1, t. 13 (b) of the Public Procurement Act. The adoption of the draft act does not require additional costs/transfers/other payments under the budget of the Ministry of Finance. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 6 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 902-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. Vote 95 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Moving to the seventh point of today's program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE AND THE GENERALS FOR SCOPES [[GENERAL PROJECT WORKED BY THE COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS MAINTENANCE WITH THE MAINTENANCE OF THE FIRST MAI LAW]] . Importers: Iglika Sabeva, Anna Alexandrova, Maria Ilieva and Dimitar Lazarov on 14 April 2019; Hamid Hamid on 18 April 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for a procedure for the admission of Ms. Tanya Kuzarova and Mr. Mario Dimitrov, Judges of the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u78	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 85 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u79	Dear colleagues, I present to your attention a Report on General Law No 953-03-43 of 4 June 2019 on the first vote adopted on 29 May 2019 A bill supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-22, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Anna Alexandrova, Maria Ilieva and Dimitar Lazarov on 12 April 2019, and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipal Damage, No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Hamid on 18 April 2019, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Act for Supplement to the State Responsibility Act and the Municipalities for Damage. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following name of the Law: The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on State Responsibility and the Municipalities for Damage.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u80	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer and the proposed name of the Law, which the Commission supports. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u81	Paragraph 1, import text. Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 shall be added at the end, as well as for the damage caused by the action of unlawful or declared minor regulatory acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u82	Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to state my support for this text and to be pleased that it has finally met the support of the Legal Committee, and I hope also in plenary. The text has been submitted by my colleague Hamid Hamid. I congratulate him on this initiative. It has been further worked together and we will overcome an injustice, I dare say, which has been imposed in the Bulgarian case law since 2016. What exactly do we do by expanding the scope of the Law, which says when and how can citizens be compensated if the state or municipalities do harm to them? In 2016, the Supreme Administrative Court of the First and Second College took the view that the damage caused to citizens and legal persons during or on the occasion of the implementation of a regulation in the period before it was repealed is not subject to compensation. In simple words, this means that if an unlawful regulation has been adopted, it has done you harm, but if the authority that has adopted the regulation manages to cancel it before you file your claims, then that you have suffered has no meaning and cannot claim your claims. With the proposal of colleague Hamid, with the support of the majority and with the work we have done, we will overcome this obstacle so that as many Bulgarian citizens can benefit from the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. This must also lead to the discipline of the administration and of the relevant authorities issuing such acts, and they must know that from now on they will be responsible for their actions. I use the case and encourage the responsible institutions to seek through regression claims and responsibility from those employees for whom the state then pays benefits. We will therefore support the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Zarkov, in order to be correct to the end, we must announce to the MPs that the author of the text is Mr. Zarkov himself. I was just passing it when it had to be imported. My line is in relation to your words that this will discipline the administration. That's why we're bringing it in. You see in the entire law from now on and in the following paragraphs there is an open question of the personal responsibility of the clerk because of the action or omission to which these damage have been caused to which the State or municipalities pay these damages. That is, the regression responsibility has not been settled, and I think that this is the great challenge facing the National Assembly to settle this difficult issue. Because, agree that in the general court order I do not know of a case in which the state or municipalities have gone to seek responsibility from the carefree clerk who has done this damage with his actions or omissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Is there gonna be another line? I can't see. Mr. Zarkov, the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Hamid, first of all, we must state that the most important thing for us must be for those people who have suffered damage and damage to receive their compensation from the state. The State is responsible for each of its employees. However, you are right to stress that the state in its hierarchic structure has mechanisms to make it as individual as possible. The idea is not to punish any clerk, but to let everyone know that they are directly responsible for their actions. I note that many of the problems come not from this or that clerk, and when I say a clerk, I do not want to put pejorative importance in this concept. These are people who work to implement the decisions of the state authorities, but very often they also come from collective bodies that make illegal and illegal decisions under pressure, sometimes in the context of political play, sometimes to satisfy some foreign interest. What we are doing today is a small but important step so that people can be better guaranteed in their rights. We will make others in this law forward. There are also texts on regression responsibility, but I am ready to continue the work collectively, as on this text, because I believe that there are no political differences here in the general objective of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, I am voting on the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u89	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Hamid Hamid: ..................................................... Article 2c is amended as "The law of the State's liability for damages from infringement of European Union law': Art. 2c (1) The courts shall deal with claims against the State for damages from infringement of European Union law caused by its authorities or officials. (2) The claims shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code where the damage is caused by acts, acts or omissions of the National Assembly, bodies or officials in the course of or on the occasion of administrative activity, as well as by the judicial activity of the administrative courts or of the Supreme Administrative Court. In other cases, claims shall be dealt with in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code. (3) A request may also be brought against several defendants. In this case, the action shall be dealt with in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code if a party to the case is the National Assembly, the Administrative Court or the Supreme Administrative Court, or a legal person where the damage is caused during or on the occasion of an administrative activity. (4) The due fees and expenses shall be determined in accordance with the order of art. Art. 9a. 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is "Order to deal with claims against the State for damages from infringement of European Union law. Art. 2c. (1) Where the damage is caused by a sufficiently substantial breach of European Union law, the actions shall be dealt with by the courts in the order of: 1. Administrative procedural code for damages under art. 1, para. 1 as well as damage to the judicial activities of the administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court; 2. The Civil Procedure Code............................................................................................ 1 and the defendant in the cases shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 7. (2) When the action under para. 1 is brought against several defendants, shall be dealt with in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code if a party to the case is an administrative court, the Supreme Administrative Court or a legal person for damage caused by or on the occasion of an administrative activity. (3) For the due fees and expenses shall be subject to art. 9a and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u90	Statements? I won't. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Hamid Hamid, which the Commission does not support. Vote 92 MPs: 24, against 4, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u91	Proposal of the National Representative Krum Zarkov to create a new § 3: .................................................. Articles 2d and 2e are inserted: "The responsibility for the activities of the investigating authorities and the judicial authorities for violations of the Convention. Art. 2d. (1) Except in the cases referred to in art. 2, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2b the State shall also be responsible for the damage caused to citizens and legal persons by violations of other rights protected by the Convention by the investigating authorities or bodies of the judiciary. (2) The claims under para. 1 shall be dealt with in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code. Responsibility for the activities of the administration for infringements of the Convention Art. 2d. (1) Except in the cases referred to in art. 1 the State and the municipalities shall also be responsible for the damage caused to citizens and legal persons by infringements of rights protected by the Convention committed by their authorities and officials in or on the occasion of administrative activity. (2) The claims under para. 1 shall be dealt with by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code and the local defendant shall be determined by art. 7, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u92	Statements? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With § 1 of this law, we have taken an important step to compensate for the damage caused by the State by regulations. With § 2, we have refined the way in which compensation is sought for these damages and when European Union law is violated. In this sense, I suggested that we make arrangements for Bulgarian citizens to be able to seek compensation from the Bulgarian courts for the damage caused to them by violations of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Why is that necessary? This convention, which was ratified in Bulgaria 25 years ago in 1992, aims to ensure that each person has certain basic rules and protects, including through a court, these rules by every government. In order to function, it shall act on the principle of subsidiarity. You've all heard of the Strasbourg court. That's where you go, that's where you get to when you've exhausted all the internal legal mechanisms to protect your rights. In Bulgaria, and this is a finding of the European Court of Justice, there is no effective internal remedy for such protection. In other words, you cannot ask a Bulgarian court to convict whether a Bulgarian authority has violated your rights, which you draw from the European Convention. Therefore, we are regularly sentenced to court in Strasbourg and in many reports the Ministry of Justice has received reports that we have received in this House.................................that in accordance with the subsidiary nature of proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights the Bulgarian State should introduce such a means or a combination of funds. What I propose and my fellow Members is such a means by means of this law of responsibility of the state and municipalities for damages to make the Bulgarian courts competent to resolve these issues and to award, where necessary, benefits. Unfortunately, after we went a long way after we found a political consensus at first reading, after an expert working group gathered together and clarified the texts, finally, at the last moment, suddenly the Commission gave it up. The arguments for this refusal are most likely of a pragmatic nature, but I am obliged to take them seriously. It is said that these funds should not be sought in a common law, but in each law separately, as they did with several laws, such as the one for detention. However, the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and it is no accident that the European Court of Justice speaks of a general instrument, is that the European Convention on Human Rights covers a huge volume of material law, that the laws that could possibly be applied in such a way as to violate your rights are inevitable. Anyone could possibly be like that. Therefore, we need a general measure, a common text, and not to seek special laws. So this argument, in my opinion, didn't last. What will it accomplish if you accept my offer? First of all, the cases in which we are condemned in Strasbourg will be significantly reduced, for the simple reason that very few of them will reach Strasbourg. Strasbourg will say: "You have an effective means to look for this in the Bulgarian court. This, on the one hand, will naturally save a lot of resources for the state as both public and as an image that violates us with any such condemnation. What is more important to me, the European Convention of Human Rights will become really accessible to every Bulgarian citizen, because each one of them will be able to invoke in the court that is accessible to him, his native court. Otherwise, at the moment only those who have enough time, enough nerves and enough money can reach Strasbourg to afford this expensive production. Not to mention it takes years. Therefore, if we want the European Convention on Human Rights to become really part of our legal system, it must be able to be implemented by the Bulgarian Court of Justice and this is a step in this direction. You have time to reconsider, too, Madam President, and appeal for support of this text, because it will become a reality at some point. Let's do it now, we don't have to waste another few months.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, it's a noble idea from colleague Zarkov. Yeah, there's got to be a mechanism like this sooner or later. But I will recall some of the arguments that were put forward in the debates before the Legal Committee when we examined this proposal, and were expressed by the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They were in the direction that Italy followed the approach offered to us by colleague Zarkov, but the result, unfortunately, was entirely impragmatic, as he put it, namely the courts in the Republic of Italy were literally overwhelmed, clogged, such as other euphemisms can think of blocking, from similar complaints. The result was that people who really needed legal protection and assistance against unlawful acts and acts of the administration could not have obtained timely and adequate protection of their rights and interests from the court, as the court had to deal with all complaints filed under this, I would say, accelerated, fast but not sufficiently effective order. In this sense, we must not place one group of complainants who would file complaints under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, with all the others, and deprive or restrict rights at the expense of other citizens. Next, it was argued that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is almost not part of the internal legal order. It shall be so by virtue of art. 5, para. 4 of the Constitution, which says that any international treaty, any convention which is adopted, promulgated in the respective order by the National Assembly and part of the country's internal rule, has the rights of these rules of domestic law which contradict it. In addition, yes, it is more difficult, it is longer, the path of protection is more complicated, but the path of protection and now exists in violation of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I do not think that we need to quickly and speed up, just to try to resolve this issue with quick means, to introduce a new order that can not really help, not to encourage and facilitate citizens, but quite the opposite, to make it difficult for a large part of them, to slow down and put down practically the work of administrative courts, which is hardly intended by this proposal, but this will be the result, and I do not think that we should make the mistake of other countries, rather we should look for another mechanism. Yes, it is not appropriate for the mechanism in each separate law to seek a separate order for the implementation of this responsibility, but I do not think that the one offered to us in the proposal of colleague Zarkov is the best. And this became clear during the discussion, so the Commission's decision was also the same. In fact, everyone, and I believe that none of my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs have given up on this idea, but this is not the place, and this is not the way to resolve this issue, we need to look for another mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Will there be lines? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, if this is the best I can offer, of course, I cannot commit to say, but I think there are only two options: one is through the Law we are looking at, the other is through specific, separate laws. Both options will reach the Bulgarian court. That is, the argument that the Bulgarian court will be clogged or the common lawsuit, but in any case we are going to court, right, Mr Hamid? In other words, the argument that the Bulgarian court will be clogged does not hold. The Bulgarian State, in the face of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was presented by the Commission, made an explicit commitment to the Council of Europe, did so in Copenhagen on 13 April 2018, in which it said it was committed, together with other countries, to a joint declaration, to create and improve effective internal remedies. It's the internal remedies, there's no one else. Why are they important? Because, you're right, by virtue of our Constitution, the Convention is part of our legal peace. However, the Convention itself establishes these internal remedies, because it must be a real part of the lives of citizens and they must be able to influence, if you and I are to take a law that violates this Convention, they must actually be able, in some form, to compensate for the damage it does to them, because, again, under our Constitution, the Convention has greater power. In other words, effective internal remedies in those who created this convention in 1950 was a way of really changing people's lives, not just a kind of wishful thinking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Zarkov, yes, the Convention is part of domestic law. Yeah, well, in any case, it's gonna go to trial, so it's gotta go to trial. However, here we need to make two clarifications. The first is that in fact and now you can claim responsibility under the general law, under the Law on Obligations and Contracts. 45 et seq., the so-called composition of delicacy in civil law. So in this sense there is an internal legal instrument. Whether it is sufficiently effective, whether the claim process with the amount of fees, with the proportional 4% fee provides sufficient guarantees for access to a court, this is a very separate issue. And this issue is not only about the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, but at all about the protection of the rights and interests of Bulgarian citizens in the civil process. So there is order now, though not good enough. What you are proposing, what has been said and is important to repeat and here by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is actually about the negative experience of other countries. Negative experience, which has not been authorised, has not become an effective legal tool. The rights and interests of citizens through this order which has been introduced have not been sufficiently protected and an example has been set for Italy in particular. We should try to learn from this foreign experience and look for some different wording than what is bet here in this order. Whether it will be in a separate section of the Law, whether we will develop separate proceedings in this Law, but obviously and definitely not the way you propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Zarkov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 103 MPs: 24, Against 14, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u101	There is a proposal of the MP Krum Zarkov to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 after the words "al." Article 2 is replaced by the following: 2d, para. 1's The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u102	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 31, against 10, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u103	Proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: Where the action is brought against several defendants, they shall respond jointly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u104	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u105	A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Emil Dimitrov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The court shall forward the case to the nearest family competent administrative, regional or district court where the action is brought before a court which is the defendant of the application. The cases shall be regarded as the last resort of the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u106	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madam President of the Legal Commission! I am pleased that my proposal has met the Commission's understanding. It has been challenged to bring clarity into a hypothesis which our country has recently been convicted of in Strasbourg. A case occurred, more precisely in Stara Zagora, where the Bulgarian court, which was supposed to judge a case under this law, found itself at the same time as a court, i.e. as the one to rule, but was also guilty of the damage done from the beginning, or so the defendants claimed. This is the case against Bulgaria on 5 April 2018, which forced us to propose a new provision in order to settle this issue..... when the court is both a party and a court of law in the case. I'm glad this found quick support. I take the floor to say: in principle, we must act when it comes to judgmental sentences that lead to a change of legislation, to clearly identify the problem, to present a clear solution, to find a quick agreement. This will save the humiliation of the many judgmental sentences that, unfortunately, often happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the Commission to create a new § 4. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u109	There is a proposal from MP Krum Zarkov to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 words.............................................................................. Art. 2a. 2b, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): Art. 2a, Art. 2b, para. Art. 1, art. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u110	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u111	Mr. Zarkov withdraws it. There is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Hamid Hamid Hamid, which has been withdrawn. And Mr. Zarkov's next proposal is to create a new §7 in art. 9. There is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Emil Dimitrov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 3, in a sentence second after the word "lawyer" the words "lawyer" shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u112	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in § 5 concerning art. 10 I want to make an editorial addition. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 to create para. 4 containing the following content: The Court of Justice shall order the applicant to pay the defendant's remuneration for one lawyer, if he has had one, proportionate to the part of the claim rejected, and in favour of the legal persons, remuneration shall be awarded if they have been protected by a legal counsel whose amount may not exceed the maximum amount for the case in question determined in accordance with art. 37 of the Law on Legal Aid. The proposed regulation fully follows the practice of such cases, and it follows that the applicant must, in whole or in part, incur costs in accordance with the rejected part when rejecting the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u114	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 80, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 5 with the corresponding editorial supplement made by Mrs. Alexandrova. Paragraph 5 shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 82, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u115	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following name: There is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Krasimir Tsipov, Smilena Niva-Krusteva and Emil Dimitrov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... (1) This law shall apply to applications lodged after its entry into force. (2) The proceedings pending before the entry into force of this law shall be completed by the courts before which they are pending, including in the event of subsequent appeal and cassation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u116	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the "Transitional and Final Provisions" and the new § 6 created by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u117	According to § 3 the text of the importer, there is a proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Hamid Hamid according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In the Administrative Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, t. 3 is finally added as well as for damages from the judicial activities of the administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128, para. 1, t. 6 shall be added at the end, as well as for damages from the judicial activities of the administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "or obviously violating the law of the European Union" shall be deleted; (b) in para. 2 Finally, the words.. as well as the standards of non-contractual liability of the State for breach of European Union law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (c) the creation of para. 3: In accordance with this Chapter, claims for damages caused by a sufficiently substantial infringement of European Union law shall also be dealt with and for liability and the admissibility of the claim shall be subject to the State's non-contractual liability standards for infringement of European Union law. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 204 is created. 5. The rules of the Civil Procedure Code shall apply to the requirements for the content of the application, the annexes thereto and the evidence. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: Where the defendant referred to in the application does not meet the requirements of para. 1, the court shall indicate to the plaintiff who it should refer to by enabling the applicant, within 7 days of the communication, to remove the irregularity or to state whether it maintains the claim against the original defendant. If the applicant fails to comply with the instructions within that period, the application shall be returned with the annexes. The order for return may be appealed by a private appeal. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 212, para. 2 after the word "instructions' is added "instructions'. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 3 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 2 leave the appeal without consideration and dismiss the proceedings in the case where the challenge is overdue, the judgment shall not be subject to appeal and the challenge shall be withdrawn or refused. (b) in para. The first sentence is finally added as a state fee is not due. (c) the creation of para. 5. In the cases referred to in para. 2, 3 and 4 may be awarded costs with the order or order if requested and evidence of their payment is provided. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227a The following amendments and additions shall be made: (a) in para. 2 sentence first after the word "court" is added or the persons referred to in art. 213b, para. In the second sentence, the word "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied" or "supplied" by the persons referred to in Article 2. 213b, para. 2 are taken on the basis of the information provided by the competent authority in accordance with point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009; (b) para. 4 after the word "instructions' is added "instructions'. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 235a, a sentence first after the word "Citizens" is added, and in a sentence second, the "Citizens" is added. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 236 after the words "art." 227a "s' are replaced by "shut up'. 227a, para. One, three, four and five. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 242, para. 4 after the word "instructions' is added "instructions'. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 242a, a sentence first after the word citizens are added...................................................................................................... 13. In § 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is inserted. 7. "7." The cases under the Law on Family Aid for Children, the Law on Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Child Protection, the Law on Health and the Regulations on the Implementation of the Law on Family Aid for Children, the Law on the Protection of the Child, the Law on Health and the Regulations on the Implementation of the Law on Family Aid for Children, the Law on Disabilities, the Law on the Protection of the Child, the Law on Health and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Child, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 7 of the Commission Report. Vote 91 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u119	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law for the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. Seven is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 4 words................................................................................. 5 "7" is replaced by 3. In § 10, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words "al." 5 "7" is replaced by "al." 5 and 6 A proposal from MP Krum Zarkov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of MP Hamid Hamid Hamid under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 63 are created. 3, 4 and 5: In the legal proceedings under para. 1 The parties shall be entitled to award costs under the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) If the remuneration paid by the party for a lawyer is excessive according to the actual legal and factual complexity of the case, the court may, at the request of the other party, award a lower amount of costs in that part, but not less than the minimum amount determined according to art. 36 of the Law on Law Enforcement. (5) For the benefit of legal persons or sole traders shall also be awarded remuneration in the amount determined by the court if they have been defended by a legal counsel. The amount of the remuneration awarded may not exceed the maximum amount for the type of case in question determined by the order of art. 37 of the Law on Legal Aid. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Hamid Hamid to create a new § 5. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 117 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) point 1 is repealed; (b) c. 2: (aa) the point (s) is amended as follows: (s) for pensions, allowances and compensation to them; (bb) point (b) is repealed; (c) in para. 1, t. 2 point (e) is amended as follows: (e) for refusal to grant, repay, amend, suspend and terminate aid and cash benefits under Chapter Four, suspension of pensions, allowances and compensation to them and if the amount is up to BGN 1000. for the orders under art. 114, para. 3, 4 and 5; 2. In para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be the words "or cancel the order' and shall return the case for a new examination by the competent administrative authority where all the circumstances relating to the issue of the order are not clarified.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u120	Statements, coworkers? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u121	Madam President, honourable Members! My statement is in connection with § 10. On the basis of art. 84, para. The second sentence of the Rules of Procedure makes an editorial amendment: ..................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 after the words the "front-to-front' is a comma and sections I and II are added; (b) c. 2: (aa) in (a) the word "stop' is replaced by "stop'; (bb) in point (b) the word "stop' is deleted; (c) in point (d) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (dd) in point (e) and (e) in point (e) (i), the second paragraph is replaced by the following: (e) point (j) is amended as follows: (g) to suspend the proceedings for the granting or payment of monetary benefits under Chapter 4 and of the pensions; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119 the words............................................................................. 117, para. 1, t. 2 (e) and (f) are replaced by the following: 117, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 2 letter (b) (d) (for the amounts up to 1000 BGN, letters (i) (i) and (ii) (ii) (ii) (for the amounts up to 1000 BGN).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I first put to the vote the version of § 4, which becomes § 8 of the Commission Report, and the creation of a new § 9. Vote 92 MPs: 85, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Alexandrova in the creation of § 10. Vote 89 MPs: 82, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the whole new § 10 with the editorial amendment that we just voted on. 90 MPs voted: 83 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u123	The Commission proposes to establish § 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16: ..................................................... In the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 265, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 61, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. § 12. In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 34b the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 words.............................................................................. 61, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall 2. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 61, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of § 13. In the Law on Municipal Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 25 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. 61, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / § 14. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 279, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 61, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. § 15. In the Law on the Implementation of Measures against Market Abuse of Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 61, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. § 16. In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 152, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 61, para. The following points 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 61, para. The following points are
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the new paragraphs created from § 11 to § 16 included. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. The motion has been passed, and with this, the whole law. Colleagues, we are moving to the eighth item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW ON MARKS AND THE GEOGRAPHIC REPRESENTATIVES. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019, adopted at the first vote on 27 June 2019. Mrs. Saveklieva, please come and introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u125	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to make a procedure for admission to plenary first. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be admitted to the Chamber: From the Ministry of Economy.. Lilia Ivanova, Deputy Minister; Silvana Lyubenova, Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. From the Patent Office of David Sukalinski, Vice-President; and Sylvia Berkova, Secretary General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Please vote regime for the admission of guests from the Ministry of Economy. Vote 92 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u127	The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4 as in para. 1 the word "recruitment' is replaced by "recruitment'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u128	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law, supported by the Commission, the name of Chapter One, art. Art. 1, art. Art. 2, Art. Art. 3 and Art. 4 with the corresponding change in para. 1 of art. 4 "All these articles are supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u129	The State Register of Commerce and Industry. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5, as in para. 2: 1. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. a list of the goods and/or services for which the mark has been applied for or registered and the class number under the Nice Agreement on the International Classification of Goods and Services for the Registration of Marks of 15 June 1957, with its amendments and additions ratified by law (not yet published in the Official Journal). ...), (pron., SG No. ...), hereinafter referred to as "the Ministry of Education'; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 23 and 24 are finally added the words of the mark. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 26 and 27 the word "recruitment" is replaced by "recruitment."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u130	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 5 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u131	"Article 6 "The State Register The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 as in para. 2, p. 13 the word "recruitment' is replaced by "recruitment'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u132	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 6 with the corresponding change supported by the Commission in the corresponding version. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u133	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7, as in para. 2 is finally added to compliance with the requirements for the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u134	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 7, which the Commission supports, with the corresponding supplement which Mrs. Saveklieva read. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u135	? 8? File????? The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The Patent Office shall maintain for each brand a paper and electronic file containing all documentation of registration and subsequent entries. In cases referred to in art. 107 "110 files" contains all the documentation relating to the actions provided for in this law. (2) Right of access to the trade mark file shall have the applicant, the proprietor, their industrial property representative, a legal counsel from the administration of the applicant or the proprietor, and a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant or holder. Access to the file shall also be granted to any person expressly authorised to do so by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant or holder. (3) Right of access to the administrative file in opposition proceedings or disputes shall have the parties involved, their representatives of industrial property, legal counsel from the administration of the applicant, the holder, the opponent or the applicant, a lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant, the holder, the opponent or the applicant, and any person expressly authorised to do so by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant, the holder, the opponent or the applicant. (4) Any person shall be entitled to information on the data contained in the trade mark file to be entered. (5) The Patent Office shall maintain for each geographical indication a paper and electronic file containing all the documentation of the registration. (6) The information for each applicant, respectively an entered user, shall form a separate part of the file under para. 5. (7) Any applicant or registered user, their industrial property representative, legal counsel from the administration of the applicant or of the entered user, lawyer authorised in writing by the applicant or by the entered user, and any person expressly authorised to do so by a notary certified power of attorney by the applicant or by the entered user shall have the right of access to the relevant part of the file which shall be maintained for them under para. 6. (8) Each person shall have the right of access to the part of the file for the requested or registered geographical indication containing the data under art. 6, para. 2. (9) Third parties in respect of which circumstances are entered under the law shall only be entitled to access the documentation on the basis of which the entry was made. (10) The right of access to a file shall include the right of persons authorised under this law to be acquainted with and to receive copies of all materials and documents stored in the relevant file, with the exception of internal documents. (11) The order to grant access to the files and to obtain references or extracts from the registers shall be determined by instruction of the President of the Patent Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u136	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 9 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u137	"Chapter 2" "Markie". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u138	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 2 and the name of Section I supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u139	The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u140	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 9, supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u141	In the case of a legal person, the name of the company shall be indicated on the name of the company and shall be indicated on the name of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u142	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u143	I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 10. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u144	????? 11? Absolute grounds for refusal of registration?? There is a proposal of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is replaced by the The provisions of para. 1, t. 8, 9, 10 and 11 shall not apply upon agreement of the relevant competent authority which shall respond to the request of the Patent Office within two months of receipt of the request. The consent granted does not exempt the applicant from obligations arising from other laws in the use of the objects under para. 1, t. 8, 9, 10 and 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 is amended as follows: The provisions of para. 1, t. 8, 9, 10 and 11 shall not apply upon agreement of the relevant competent authority which shall respond to the request of the Patent Office within two months of receipt of the request. The consent granted does not exempt the applicant from obligations arising from other laws in the use of the objects under para. 1, t. 8, 9, 10 and 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, as in para. 1, points 8 and 9 are amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. A mark consisting of or comprising crests, flags or other symbols, as well as their imitations by Member States of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, as of 20 March 1883, with its amendments and additions, pursuant to the Decision of the Council of Ministers for the Accession of the People's Republic of Bulgaria to the Lisbon version of the Convention, approved by Decree No 663 of the Presidium of the National Assembly of 1965. (prom., D.V., No. ...), hereinafter referred to as the "Paris Convention', as well as crests, flags or other symbols, abbreviations or names of international intergovernmental organisations declared under art. 6, third of the Paris Convention; 9. a mark consisting of or includes signs, emblems or crests other than those declared under art. 6, third of the Paris Convention, and representing a particular public interest;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u145	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, with the text of art. 11, para. 3 a requirement shall be introduced if necessary for consent to issue an individual administrative act by another administrative authority, its presentation shall be the responsibility of the applicant. In the law in force, it does not yet apply the Law on trade marks and geographical indications, it is later repealed in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the draft in question. No such specific order is provided for the requirement of consent, therefore until the time for the requirement of consent the general order of art has been applicable. 55 of the Administrative Procedure Code, whether it has been respected by the Patent Office or not. Under that provision of the Code, where a special law requires the consent or opinion of another body and, unless otherwise provided, the administrative authority leading the proceedings shall seek the assistance of that body without delay. The other authority shall reply to the request within a time limit set by the leading body but not more than 14 days. If the other authority does not rule within a period of time, this shall be deemed to be his consent, i.e. by that time the Patent Office should address that other body and not seek that from the applicant. I believe that the consent which, until now, in the current Law on Trademarks and Geographical Indications is required by another body should be sought from the Patent Office, not by the applicant, and that the general rule of the Administrative Procedure Code, which I have quoted, should be respected. The introduction of a special order to seek such consent from the applicant and not from the leading administrative body shall be contrary to the public interest. It is a retreat from the principle of official origin, which is the basis for administrative proceedings. Trade marks and geographical indications are, to a large extent, administrative and not any other by type of proceedings. Moreover, the provisions of art. 11, para. 1, t. 8, 9, 10 and 11 protect the public interest in the use of State symbols, symbols of international and intergovernmental organisations, official warranty signs, cultural values and other signs of high public importance, and in this context the admission of registration of a mark containing such signs should also protect the public interest and not the private interest of the applicant. Therefore, in this case, the interpretation of art. 11, para. 3 of the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications in accordance with its objective implies the consent to be sought at institutional level. The decision-making body should not abdicate from the active protection of the public interest which imposes on it the principle of official start-up or, in return, to transfer that obligation to private persons. The protection of public interest is a function of the public authorities and not of private entities. The purpose of the conciliation procedure is to provide objective institutional judgement in an area where the determining authority does not have the necessary expertise, and that assessment must also coincide with the public interest where it is also unacceptable to consider that it may be influenced in one direction or in another by the justification proposed by the applicant to the mark in defence of its personal subjective interests. The authorities authorised to provide consent under art. 11, para. 3 shall verify that the personal interest of the applicant coincides with the public on the basis of their expertise and not on the basis of the arguments and/or evidence provided by the applicant. In addition, it should be borne in mind that in view of the high public interest which they represent, the ones referred to in art. 11, para. 1, t. 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the Bill international and intergovernmental symbols, warranty signs, cultural values and others, the relevant authority providing its consent needs to have a longer period of time than foreseen in the Bill two weeks. I therefore believe that such an appropriate period is the two-month period and I believe that in this case the responsibility that the State authority, in this case the Patent Office, is responsible for protecting and protecting the public interest on individuals should not be transferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Tanchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. They voted 94 MPs: 25, against 17, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. 90 MPs voted: 24, against 1, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 11 with the proposed editorial amendments by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u148	Under art. There is a proposal from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12, as in para. 4 words continued and on the date of submission of the opposition shall be replaced by the date of submission of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u149	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 12 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs, for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u150	Section II - Legal consequences of registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 13 "Intent of the exclusive right to the brand" is proposed by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dimitar Danchev and Stanislav Vladimirov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13, as in para. 2, p. 4 is amended as follows: "4." the use of the sign as a commercial or company name or as part of a commercial or company name;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u151	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Section II and the text of the importer as art. 13 with the proposal for replacement made by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u152	Law on the prohibition of preparatory actions.............................................................................................. OJ L 268, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. Forbidden for use of a mark, registration of the name of an agent or representative art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-21.u153	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for art. Article 14 15, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. That's what we're gonna end up with today's bill. I will make the parliamentary control announcement on 22 November 2019, Friday: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Cornelia Ninova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question from MP Stanislav Stanilov. 3. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer four questions from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Hristo Prodanov, Georgi Gokov and Alexander Sabanov. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Nona Yotova, Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on four questions with written answer from the MPs Anna Slavova, Lalo Kirilov, Teodora Halacheva and Valentin Nikolov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva to a question written by the MPs Hristo Prodanov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MP Mihail Hristov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on two questions from the MPs Mihail Hristov and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov and Desislav Taskov, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Anna Slavova and Desislav Taskov, Georgi Mihailov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov. Due to the lack of respectable reasons of the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov, his response by the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov is postponed. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the use of annual leave. In the absence of parliamentary control in the meeting, the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov, the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev and the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate. The next regular plenary session on 22 November 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
