ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u1	Hey, guys, good morning! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, proposals have been made for changes to the Standing Committees. I propose on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be included in the weekly Programme the following additional item to become the third item for today's plenary sitting: Draft decisions for changes in permanent committees. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova on 19 April 2019. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: for 128, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Messages: On 17 April 2019, the National Assembly was provided with a resolution on the topic: a multi-annual financial framework of the European Union 2021 - 2027. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, the Budget and Finance Committee, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee and the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL DISCUREMENT CODE. An importer is the national representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 27 March 2019. He was accepted at the first vote on 4 April 2019. Who's gonna introduce us to the Second Reading Report? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Let me first make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; Mrs. Snezana Malakova and Mr. Dragomir Draganov, Directors of Directorates at the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u3	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u4	Report on the bill for supplementing the Social Security Code adopted on 4 April 2019, No 954-01-17, submitted by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 27 March 2019. "Improvement and supplement of the Social Security Code (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u5	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law with the corresponding version supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u6	According to Paragraph one has a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Hasan Ademov and Kalin Popovski. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the Paragraph only: I'm the only one. Paragraph 22w shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: "Sixteenths." (1) By 1 January 2023, at the same time as the submission of an application for an employment pension with a starting date after 31 December 2018, the person shall have the right to choose the amount of his pension to be determined by an individual coefficient calculated in accordance with art. 70, para. 4? 7, para. 10, t. 1 and para. 11, if it's more favorable to him. In such cases, documents on gross wage or income on which insurance contributions have been paid for three consecutive years from the last 15 years of the pensioner's election insurance service before 1 January 1997 and on gross wage or income on which insurance contributions for the insurance service have been paid after that date until 31 December 1999 inclusive shall apply to the application. Where, for the period after 31 December 1996 or for part of it, no documents for gross wage or income on which contributions have been made shall be provided, the data under art. 5, para. 4 t. 1. (2) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, persons with applications for employment pension with a starting date after 31 December 2018, as well as those to whom such a pension has been granted until the entry into force of this law, may exercise their right of choice under para. 1 and in such cases the pension shall be granted at the new amount from the same starting date if this is more favourable to the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u7	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Together with fellow MPs Dr. Hasan Ademov and Dr. Kalin Popovski, we have made an addition to the Bill guaranteeing the right of individuals to receive the favourable, higher amount of pension in cases where they have applied for retirement after 31 December 2018, in cases where they are due to retire by 1 January 2023, they have made a choice to calculate the amount of their pension with the individual pension coefficient under the current legal framework by 31 December 2018 and have submitted documents for three consecutive favourable and selected by them best years before 1997. At the same time, the employees of the National Insurance Institute will also calculate the amount of the pension with the individual pension ratio based on the insurance income from 2000 until the date of retirement of the person. The two amounts will be cross-referenced and will be determined by the favorable, higher amount of the pension so as to benefit the person who will retire. I would also like to remind this bill of an important provision that, after the entry into force of this supplement in the Social Security Code, persons who have applied for retirement after 31 December 2018 or who are granted a pension will be entitled to make a choice and apply in the territorial divisions of the National Insurance Institute and the new amount of their pension will be granted from the same starting date. This may be done within 6 months of the entry into force of this new provision. This bill, which I am shortly hoping will be supported by the Members of the National Assembly, has a positive effect for all interested parties, for those who have applied for retirement after 31 December 2018 and are about to retire. With the change we make, individuals will have the right to choose, which will guarantee to the maximum extent justice and protection of their social security rights. I would like to stress once again and make it clear that no person who has submitted an application for retirement after 31 December 2018 and who is about to retire will not be harmed by a single penny. Bulgarian citizens can be calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we are making with our fellow Members and the Bill proposed to your attention is practically suppressing the tension that was created after New Year's Eve in relation to the new way of calculating the individual coefficient, where only the years after 1 January 2000 entered and only the years after 1 January 2000 until the date of retirement. In practice, no one will be harmed in calculating the amount of the pension. All Bulgarian citizens who are due to be retired in this and the coming years must be assured that they will not be reduced in the amount of their pension.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u11	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph only to the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, and with this change. Move to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RESTRUCTURING AND EXAMINATION OF THE LAW FOR SOCIAL HELP Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me to make an offer for admission to the hall of Mr. Ludmil Dimitrov.. State expert in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Tonislava Sotirova.. Head of Department of the Department of Social Inclusion................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u13	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Voted 101 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u14	Report on the General Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on the basis of the bill adopted at the first vote on 3 April 2019 amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-13, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of Members of Parliament on 6 March 2019, and the Draft amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 March 2019. The Social Assistance Act is amended and supplemented by the Social Assistance Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u16	Paragraph 1 in two ways. The Commission shall in principle support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) The receipt of monthly social benefits shall be linked to: 1. the placement of community service by unemployed persons of working age registered in the Directorate of the Labour Office and their participation in training for literacy and/or training, except in the case of maternity or where the health status of the person does not permit it; 2. regular attendance of a kindergarten or school by the child or student at compulsory pre-school or respectively school age according to the form of an organisation or training, unless this is impossible due to his health condition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u17	Statements? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I just want to remind you of what we adopt in the Law: we are currently assigning the Agency for Social Assistance because this Social Assistance Act is administered by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy that the ASP has never carried out training for literacy. This is done by the structures of the Ministry of Education and Science. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has never conducted any form of literacy! So what we have recorded here does not in any way mean that it can be fulfilled because they do not have the administrative capacity to do what we have written in the text. Otherwise, we should note that over the last five years, 40% of monthly social benefits have been reduced. Social support under the Social Assistance Act in Bulgaria receive less than 30 thousand people per year on average, with approximately 32 million foreseen for 2019. That is, this group of Bulgarian citizens, who alone cannot satisfy their basic vital needs, are by no means the ones who drain the insurance system in any way. Next, I would like to introduce the Members of the National Assembly to a published decision of the European Social Rights Committee on 27 March 2019. On 27 March 2019 a decision of the European Committee on Social Rights was published on a complaint against Bulgaria, with which the Committee found that the suspension of monthly aid for children who did not attend school was contrary to the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe. The Committee shall, by its decision, find infringement of art. 16 of the Charter guaranteeing the right of families to social, legal and economic protection. It points out that the suspension measure for a period of one year and the possible termination of family aid to children due to school absence has a criminal nature and increases the economic and social vulnerability of the children concerned. For this reason, the Committee unanimously accepts that the relevant legal measure is not proportionate to the otherwise legitimate objective which pursues the fight against school drop-out. I would like to make it very clear: none from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is opposed to having children attend school from the earliest childhood. It is clear that this must be done by seeking a balance between sanctioning and supporting measures. In our view, such a balance is not made in these texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u19	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Ademov, I do not agree with one part of your speech, namely that the ASP does not implement training and literacy programmes. In the text we are looking at and which is of our attention.................................................................................... 2, para. 4, it is a question of the receipt of social benefits being linked to community service by unemployed persons of working age registered with the Bureau of Labour and their participation in training for literacy or enhancement of qualifications. Nowhere in the text is it verified that the Agency for Social Assistance carries out these trainings for literacy or training. This text applies only to criteria for the payment of monthly aid by the ASP. The Agency for Social Assistance shall only direct those persons to the labour bureaus for inclusion in training programmes, for improving qualification and for literacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u21	There are no programs like this, and there never was.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u22	These programmes can be under the Operational Programme, there are such schemes under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" in the National Employment Action Plan, but this is not done by the Agency for Social Assistance. Nowhere in the text is vitrified. This is done by the Employment Agency. The text concerns only the payment, criteria for the payment of monthly social benefits. I think the text is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Any other lines? Second line, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Ademov, my line will be on the second part of your speech. It is good that you are quoting this decision, but it is also nice to say that it should be examined extremely thoroughly by lawyers and whether it is actually a violation of social rights and art. 16 of the Charter to review very carefully art. 16. In addition, when opinions are given, of course, this process has already been completed, to similar institutions, committees, they must be given extremely justified and objectively, because here we do not have..... in the proposals we make, you say that the balance has not been found. I cannot agree that the balance has not been found, because we should not seek it only in this law. The balance is also related to the Preschool and School Education Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u25	We now accept this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u26	Yes, but we're talking about integrated policies, aren't we, Dr. Ademov?! Support measures for children are described very clearly in the Preschool and School Education Act. We support them with textbooks, with breakfast, with fruit, vegetable, milk, transport, scholarships, awards, anything you can think of. After all, however, children also have the obligation, but also the right to attend school and kindergarten. Moreover, what do we do, including the proposal that we have made with colleagues between first and second readings and which is a little further in the Bill? We basically say we don't take money, we've made it very clear. This money stays with the child and is used for its specific needs. They can be used for clothes, for shoes, for transport, can be used even for...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u27	At recess, teachers go and buy shoes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u28	They still buy shoes, Dr. Ademov, but with their own money. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] While at the same time, what do parents do with that money buy alcohol, right? [[Radio, lines.]] So this is the balance. We want the money that the state grants as aid to the children and their education to go and be with the children to be used clearly for their needs. When it is proven that parents are irresponsible and cannot use these funds for the needs of children, we transfer this money to the school and kindergarten to guarantee the rights of children, I repeat. Thank you. I apologize for the delay. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Regarding the first line, I would like to thank you for these lines before this, never the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in any programme has performed training for literacy. One is literacy, another is qualification and requalification! Nowhere, in any program of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, is there any programme for literacy of the Employment Agency or any structure! It's true if you want, I can prove it to you. Next, as regards what Mrs Damyanova said, I simply quote the decision of the Committee, which has spoken on the texts of the Bulgarian legislation. Whether it's correct or not, there are people who judge. We are not the ones who judge whether these texts are correct or not. Next, you say that money does not stop them, and they go for the specific needs of the child. Tell me the mechanism that is written in which law, how does this money reach the child? At the moment the money reaches the school and no one knows there is a mechanism by which it is clear whether this money is used for salaries, whether it is used for heating, for water supply! Where is such a mechanism signed? Is there a signed mechanism that's 40 leva? How will they reach the specific needs of the child? What law describes the specific needs of the child? Can you tell me? There is no such law or regulation! You are saying right now what your colleagues were applauding you for: the teacher at recess estimates that the child needs sneakers, goes to the nearest store and for 40 leva. buy sneakers, a compass or a notebook. Is that what you're telling me right now?! You didn't sign it the right way! This discussion was held at the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. The colleagues of the Tripartite Council want to have a clearly written mechanism in the legislation to say how this money will reach the child, not to flow into the general budget of the education system, of the specific school. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u31	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u32	Dear colleagues, an interesting debate was opened with this law. First of all, to say about what you said, Mr. Ademov: well, if there are no such programs for literacy, let's create them! Because it's clear that when someone hasn't graduated from fourth grade or went to school at all, no matter how much welfare we pay them, they won't enter the labor market. This is actually the idea of the text that we submitted, to which we edited, you know, between first and second reading, with the idea of trying to do so, so that social payments are up to a time and then these people can put them back on the labour market, where they can continue to pay their social security and have payment for other people. This is the idea of this text, and this was the reason why, just a few weeks ago, we brought it in with our colleague Iskren Veselinov, to try to solve the problem of so-called social parasiteism, with the fact that there are some people who have long stood entirely and only on social benefits without trying to become educated without trying to make some sort of qualification or increase this qualification and return to the labour market. That was the whole point of this law. We have made the corrections in the text according to what we have both spoken with you and with all the other colleagues, with the idea of being a working text, which I hope, in the end, by voting on this law, this text will find a way to work. I say again: if there are no programs, and yes, perhaps it is not their place in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, this test does not necessarily oblige any authority to do so, but it does not prevent us from creating, if necessary through the Ministry of Education, such systems, in order for these people to become literate, to learn at least to read, write and speak the correct Bulgarian language in order to be able to fit back into the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. A line? Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Siddy, I do not want to leave the impression that someone from this Chamber and from the Bulgarian society is against all children being covered in the early childhood education system. Why am I saying this? Because I continue to believe that children should be supported. Okay, there are supporting measures. Why, though, do I say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy cannot fulfil its commitment to literacy? Because there's no administrative capacity, there's neither teachers nor we can hire them, you say. But this law is administered by the Social Assistance Agency, by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. That's where he's being administered, that's where he's funding this law! Moreover, you say that now putting community service by unemployed people at work age, registered at the employment desks and their participation in training, and so on, is a condition for receiving monthly social benefits. What's new? In current legislation, there is a commitment of all those who are at workable age to perform community service within 14 days, 4 hours a day. It's in the legislation in force! In the current legislation, in the Employment Promotion Act, there is a text that anyone who refuses a repeat or who refuses a proposed qualification course, for re-qualification, for inclusion in measures, the employment agency's programmes shall be deprived of its registration. When he is deprived of registration, for one year he is not entitled to receive monthly benefits even for two years, because the condition to receive monthly social benefits is to have a registration with the Bureau of Labour. That is, the legislation in force says: in order to receive monthly social benefits, you have to do community service. I exclude here the exceptions that have been said in the Law. And the second thing that is said is that you should not refuse programs and measures for qualification, requalification and training. These things are in the current legislation! What are we changing? Is there any general change to these texts? There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u35	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Dear colleague Siddy, in your speech I was impressed when you affected the Bulgarian children to grow up, to receive the education, the specialization they need and which was given to them by law. However, there are also obligations in the context that we comment today on their parents providing them with such education. Because you have touched on the topic of return initially, why I took this line to you to become an integrated citizen in Bulgarian society, to enter the labour market and, respectively, with their activities, work and initiatives to support the social and health system in the future. Because we should not produce, although at this demographic moment, when the Bulgarian economy really needs labour, we cannot afford to lose even one child from the educational system and produce a Bulgarian citizen who will not contribute to the whole society. I absolutely think that we are all obliged to support this bill and this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u37	Who doesn't say anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u39	Thank you for your lines. Dr. Ademov, I deeply respect your expertise. However, what we are arguing about and having a conversation about, on the subject, I continue to think that as point two, I spoke more about point one, this and to colleague Ivanov about those who have already lost to the education system, I am talking about those who should have been in school before, have not gone and today the only thing they are receiving are social benefits. Those who are, anyway, not covered by the labour market today. The second point speaks of the future of those we should not miss today. The first point, however, speaks of those who are already missed, who are 18 years old and 20 years old, who receive social benefits and receive them for years because they simply cannot fit into the labour market for all sorts of reasons: whether they cannot speak and read properly, or that they cannot and therefore do not have labour habits. So that's what I was talking about, and that's what I said that the project we brought in from IMRO was with the idea of stopping this particular social parasite today. For the other, for the future, for the children, I believe that there is really no dispute there either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Another statement? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u41	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, when the three drafts almost as a package, almost simultaneously entered the National Assembly for consideration, I very much hoped that they would pass by consensus that this debate on the issue and on the contrary, which is currently ongoing, will not take place. In fact, let's make a distinction and see who is for.... and who is against................................................................................................ The joy for me is that all Bulgarian parties in the National Assembly are in one form or another, for what we do, what we introduce or what we reach between the two readings. The bill of BSP colleagues is similar. It was even the most radical, and I think, unfortunately, it will be accepted without their participation. But they lose! They had to be in the Chamber to participate in the adoption of something that we, the Patriots, have long been striving for. When 14 years ago, we stated such intentions, made suggestions, made bills in this direction, were accused of the blackest sins, and attached to us the most terrible nouns and adjectives. The time has come in the Bulgarian National Assembly against such bills and ideas to be only DPS. And it's not surprising, it's no surprise to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u42	It's not true we're against it! That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u43	The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is currently trying to pass as a protector of this electorate, those parts of the Bulgarian people who rely without reservation, as it has been, on social benefits. Everything here as an opposition is happening, including in the media, including in the public debate outside, under the sign that it was affected by the rights of Bulgarian citizens that it was discrimination. Empty talk, of course, without realizing the essence of all this! Since the beginning of the changes and in this liberal time there have been some suggestion, some delusions about human rights, people, communities, and here we are looking at a typical example in this regard. The rights of the people, of the communities, of the individual citizens are defined by the Constitution, of course, but also by law. The law decides their volume! The law decides the limits within which these rights are! Otherwise, if we're leading this debate unilaterally and speculatively, how are we going to explain anything else? Dear colleagues, for children whose parents have incomes greater than one established border, we all know no child benefits are given. In that case, can we talk about affecting the rights of people, citizens, children? Well, this isn't a smaller debate, this is the even more important, bigger debate. Because in Bulgaria there are already more, according to this limit, which is defined, those children for whom no child benefits are given in view of their parents' incomes! In this regard, however, the opponents of what we are currently doing, of this rule that we perceive, do not say a word. They're silent! For me, this is the big debate, the bigger debate! And here, in this room, there are parents who don't get child support for their children for that reason. There is no prejudice to the rights of citizens, of individuals, of communities when the law is within certain limits [[the President signals that time has run out]] when the law concerns them, as is the case. Here we are talking again about winking at an electorate, some people and the experience of a political force in Bulgaria to express protection for it and to unite it to itself as a voter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u46	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u47	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Galya Zaharieva and Venka Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words are deleted. 2. A new t. is created. 6: It's six. the inclusion of children in the pre-school and school education system in cases where they are subject to compulsory pre-school or school education; 3. Previously on "T." 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u48	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u49	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u50	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 4. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u51	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u52	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 5. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u53	Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National A new §4 is being created: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u54	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 4. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u55	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Kalin Popovski, made in accordance with Article 6. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 14: It's 14 years old. Indecently received social benefits are available where the requirements of this law or other rules of the legislation in force that are relevant to determining the right to support, including where the recipient holds property, or incurs costs which do not correspond to the income it claims, which has been established by an act of the competent authorities concerned, have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u56	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u57	Dear colleagues! We created this text with my colleague Iskren Veselinov, with my colleagues from IMRO and IMRO, so that we can finally make a legal definition of what is inconclusively received funds. I think that between first and second reading we corrected the text and is now better and working. This is actually part of the whole strategy that we have been talking about for months and years that we should try to stop the social system from leaking to unholy citizens. Specifically, in this case, what we have done as a text was caused by noisy weddings of different people who make them and gather in different places in the country... a wedding of 300, 400, 500 people who are on social assistance, or the case with those.. I think they were in Pleven, Bulgarian citizens who are on social benefits, but drive extremely expensive cars and so on. Thus, with the provision, we are finally making a legal definition of the problem and, accordingly, people who demonstrate a standard of living different from those who allow them incomes will be able to finally be stopped from receiving these aids and will have to find another way to legalise their incomes. I therefore hope you will support the text. Thank you. PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Siddy, the actual text proposed between first and second reading is the more correct text to hope that it will work. But even now, before a month of social assistance is granted, the relevant employees of the Social Assistance Agency are checking income, property and everything else that you are talking about. If you are proposing this text, this means that you doubt what the employees of the Social Assistance Agency are doing. If they fail to fulfil their obligations, it is a matter of administrative measures, not legislative changes. And now, there are conditions for receiving social benefits, or you meet these conditions to get, or someone is allowing themselves to write something else in the order to grant monthly social assistance. That's what you're saying right now. How is it that this guy who has expensive cars and makes lavish weddings and so on is gonna be on monthly welfare? Where are the social workers doing the social survey? You're blaming your employees, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u59	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 6, which shall become § 5 of the Commission Report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u60	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u61	Moving on to § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u62	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Galya Zaharieva and Venka Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov: The following amendments shall be made in § 7: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In point (a), point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 letter (s) and 1 letter (s) is replaced by the number (s) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 point (b) is replaced by the number (s) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) the Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In the Law on Family Aid for Children (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 11 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." where, within one month of the school year, absences are allowed more than three days from a child attending a group for compulsory pre-school education and 5 hours from a student for whom there are no respectable reasons; (b) in para. 12 after the word "overlay', a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be deleted. (c) in para. The 13th sentence is amended as follows: The help is not granted if the student has allowed within one month of the school year absences of 5 hours of school for which there are no respectable reasons. (d) in para. 14 the words "stop" and/or "stop" are deleted; (e) in para. 17 words shall be deleted or suspended and a comma shall be added and/or provided for the access to education of the child or student concerned according to its specific needs. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 6: The aid must be limited to the minimum necessary to cover the costs incurred by the beneficiary. 1 shall be paid twice and 50 percent of its amount shall be paid upon entry into force of the order for granting it and the remainder shall be paid at the beginning of the second period of study if the child continues to attend school. (b) the current para. 6 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The aid shall be recovered if: 1. the child does not enter school unless it is impossible because of his health; 2. the student did not continue his studies during the second period of study until the completion of the first grade, unless this is impossible due to his health condition; 3. The student has allowed within one month of the school year absences of 5 hours, for which there are no respectable reasons. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 10, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing 4. The additional provisions shall set out the following provisions: 10 and 11: ..10. "Recent reasons for absences by a child attending a compulsory pre-school education group' are available if: (a) the absences are presented with a medical note, a document from the sports club in which the child is a member, a document from the head of dance, musical or other artistic formation/group in which the child participates; (b) absences are up to 10 days for the period 15 September " 31 May" with a notification from the parent; c) The absences are for the period 1 June 14 September. 11. "According reasons for absences by a student are defined under the Preschool and School Education Act. "
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u63	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u64	Thank you, Madam President. The proposal I have made is in agreement with the National Network for Children, but after hearing the arguments in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, I withdraw this proposal. The idea was to soften the sentimental regime offered by this bill. However, I would like to draw attention to something else. Colleagues from GERB, what are you doing with the proposal for five hours of study within a month? This means that there is no sanctioning regime with four hours of school. If we calculate that within one school year we have eight or nine months, that means that you allow unapologized absences between 30 and 40 hours. That's what you're suggesting. If that's what you're thinking, then the text is correct. Otherwise there had to be a change in this text, because the idea of children attending school in no way fits what you say. One is five hours of study within one calendar month, another is when you sum up the hours between 30 and 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u65	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. A line? Mrs. Damyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, thank you for withdrawing the proposal after the arguments that colleagues have put forward in the Commission. We are really trying at every quorum and at every opportunity to express these arguments. However, you are also right about what you say that in practice a student can make four absences each month, but here I will return to our Preschool and School Education Act. I said it on our committee, and I'll say it again here in the Chamber. The two laws, in this case, these specific measures must be considered in full and together, because in our law it is very clear that when a child is at risk and here it is about children at risk, the team for support for personal development should work immediately. In them are described the clear mechanisms for this to happen "how the team is formed, there are psychologists involved, there are specialists involved, social services involved and so on. This team has a very clear task to define a support plan for this child. When we have a risk and we see that there is such a risk of absence, prevention is very important. This is the prevention of the support team in the school and kindergarten, together with the parents, these are measures that, of course, need to be discussed with them, a support plan for the child, so as not to allow these absences, for which you rightly say that they will occur with accumulation. That can't be allowed. There are very clearly described mechanisms in the Preschool and School Education Act and in the Ordinance on Inclusive Education how to happen. It remains, of course, for the system to implement those measures that are scheduled. She'll probably need time to do that, but this is the way. After all, we must focus on prevention mainly and not on sanctions that are already the final measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Damyanova, I understand that the integrated measures, the integrated approach is the one that can lead to the return of children to school and to their detention. It is no coincidence that these 1,100 teams that you have built have returned 40,000 children, but I would like to point out that, if I am not mistaken, about 5,000 children have once again left school, which means that the sanctioning measures and their overvaluation. We hope that we are not right, but I am not convinced that these measures are the measures that will bring the children back to school. Because the same children who refuse to go to school in Bulgaria, going to the countries of the European Union, going to school, their parents also go to work, receive income from work. That's the big problem. Why is there such a difference? Why in Bulgaria do not want to visit the system of education and do not go to work, and the same people, when they go to Europe, are the ones who are most regular at school and go to work, receiving income from work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u69	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Do we have any other speeches, colleagues? Dr. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My deep belief is that it is with complex measures and efforts that we will achieve the return to school and the education of children, because only this is the guarantee of a well-educated nation that will guarantee a prosperous country. Here came the topic of medical notes and declaring a conflict of interest in the context of the fact that I work, practice and issue such notes, I want to reflect another aspect of the solution to the problem we are looking for with the visit of the children to school and in compulsory pre-school preparation. I believe that there is a risk of putting pressure on the issuing medical notes with a view to acquitting unauthorized absences, and I would therefore appeal, so that we can achieve greater efficiency of the measures that we are now putting into this law, to seek a solution, to set a limit and to the number of outstanding absences that children may have. I understand that there is a risk that some really sick children will be put in a position where they will be difficult to submit a note of school absence for a longer period of time, but there are medical committees that can be ruled out in these cases. I believe that, indeed, the Education Committee can offer an adequate place for these measures. Perhaps they should be in some sub-legal regulation, for example in a regulation, because it is reasonable indeed, on the one hand, to allow really sick children to be able to retain the rights and social support of their parents, and to receive adequate assistance and education at school, and, on the other hand, to minimize the risk of pressure on doctors who issue medical notes for a certificate of the health of children. The balance in the search for good solutions is a guarantee for the realization of our intentions to better educate adolescents, children and students.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u71	Thank you, dear Dr. Dariktova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Dr. Daritkova, first of all, I would like to express my assurance that doctors are really always objective, but on the other hand, I will support you in your proposal to limit the number of absences that are entitled to make students and children with a medical note. Personally, I have always considered, by the way, this is practice in many countries, it is also practice here, for example, in Bulgaria, that absences should not be divided into excuses and non-excuses, because absence is absence. The child is absent, he loses school material, he loses from what he needs to receive, which is due to him by law in school and kindergarten, but this is another topic that maybe we should start discussing with our colleagues from the Ministry of Education and Science, and with the whole guild, it is not new. Even a few years ago, there was a consensus on this subject. We, together with colleagues from the Committee on Education and Science, will propose changes to the Minister of Education in the Ordinance on Inclusive Education, where all these opportunities for absences are regulated. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is not to you, but to follow what Dr. Ademov said that the biggest challenge for all of us is the detention of children in school and the measures that we need to implement. Yeah, we bring them back, some of them mechanically, but this is the first and easier step. The more difficult and the one that requires time and really effort from everyone is their retention and the motivation of children to learn, because they cannot be successful if they are not motivated to educate themselves and obtain knowledge that then guarantee them good realization on the labour market. I will return to the Preschool and School Education Act, to the Support Plan for these children. I am about to make an inquiry to the Ministry about how these texts of the Law are implemented, because this is extremely important. When they are accepted and when they are recorded there, it has a certain vision and philosophy. If the plan to support personal development is implemented, with time indeed and the motivation of those children who are at risk of dropping out will be better and not only theirs, but including their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Another line? I can't see. There won't be a hole. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. First, I vote on the name of the division and after Dr. Ademov withdraws his proposal, which is not accepted, I vote on the amendment of § 7, which becomes § 6 of the Commission Report. 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u74	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Within three months of the promulgation of this law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the necessary amendments to the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act and the Rules for Implementation of the Family Aid Act for Children. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u75	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8, which shall become § 7, in the Report of the Commission and the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the third item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to the data under the Electronic Communications Act The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Dulchev Nunev as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova, Chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The second one. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on Legal Affairs The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. She elected Anna Vasileva Alexandrova as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. He elected Alexander Koychev Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Krasimir Mitkov Subev and Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov as members of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. 2. She elected Anna Vasileva Alexandrova as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Valentin Alexiev Nikolov as Chairman of the Energy Commission. 2. He elected Dimitar Boychev Petrov as Vice-President of the Energy Commission. 3. He elected Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov and Vasil Tsvetkov as members of the Energy Commission. Importer is the national representative Daniela Daritkova. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Alexander Koychev Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Health. 2. He elected Krasimir Mitkov Subev as a member of the Health Committee. Importer Daniela Daritkova. Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Anna Vasileva Alexandrova as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Importer Dr. Daniela Daritkova. Please, voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The latest draft decision on change in committees: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Plamen Dulchev Nunev as a member of the Defence Committee. 2. He elected Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov as a member of the Defence Committee. Importer Dr. Daritkova. Please, voting mode. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have exhausted the agenda of the plenary. We continue with Parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u76	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we begin with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. No new requests for the period from 12 to 18 April 2019 have been received. Written answers from: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Grudev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Galya Zaharieva, Svetlana Naydenova and Venka Stoyanova. A statement has been filed on behalf of a group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Today, the world's largest Christian church celebrates its Passover. On the eve of the brightest Christian holiday the Catholic community in Bulgaria is overwhelmed by a special thrill and excitement in anticipation of the event, which will brighten our daily life with a special charge and emotion an event that will leave a lasting trail in the lives of all of us, the laymen who have been happy to touch the charisma and vital energy of the Holy Father. As our ancestors are bearers of the ultimate covenant, reminding the world that there is a heroic people thirsting for their sacred freedom, so His Holiness Pope Francis will remind the Bulgarian people that freedom and peace are original human values for the entire civilized society. The message of peace on earth, which accompany the Holy Father in his apostolic way, is a clear sign and an assessment of the peaceful cohabitation of people of different ethnicities and religions on the territory of our homeland, an assessment of our efforts to share good with our neighbors. The good that we have received in inheritance is the result of the efforts of many people, which have been carried over to our two hands, as clearly can be seen from the visit's logo. Papa Francis will visit our country in light of the memory of the papal Legate Monsignor Angelo Ronkali from 1925 to 1934 in Bulgaria. At that time, the future pope met with a few non-Catholics and non-Christians and worked with all communities in the country equally diligently. Later, as a spiritual leader of the Catholic Church, the Bulgarian pope convened the Second Vatican Council, which opened the Catholic Church for dialogue with other Christians and other religions. Nowadays, Bulgarian Catholics live in peace with everyone. They celebrate their proverbial hard work and vitality, do not save energy and strength, giving all their affection for the progress of their homeland. By finishing, I will quote the words of the Holy Father, who are part of his traditional address to the Christian world Urbi et Orbi, which in translation means the city and to the world. Jesus foretold his death and resurrection using the image of the grain of wheat. He said: "If the wheat does not fall to the earth and dies, it remains alone, but if it dies, it produces much fruit. " He remained for two days in the grave, but his death contained God's love with all his power, freed and manifested on the third day, the day we celebrated the Easter of Christ today. We also ask the fruits of wisdom for those who have political responsibilities in our world that they can always respect human dignity, devote themselves actively to the pursuit of the common good and guarantee the development and security of their own citizens. Happy Thanksgiving! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Happy holidays to you too! We begin parliamentary control with Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva's responses to Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. First he will answer a question from the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova on the protection of the rights of persons belonging to the Bulgarian national minority in the territory of Ukraine. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u79	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! We know that in the territory of Ukraine lives one of the largest historical communities of ethnic Bulgarians abroad. According to unofficial data, it numbers more than 250 thousand people, most of whom inhabited the Odessa region, and in particular the Bolgrad region. The community of our compatriots is relatively well integrated in Ukraine's social and economic lives, but the dynamic political processes in the country inevitably affect its minority rights. In this regard, I would like to ask you: how does the recently adopted Education Act in Ukraine affect the establishment of Ukrainian language in the educational system, as well as the ongoing administrative and territorial reform that threatens the unity of the Bulgarian community in the Bolgrad region? These are actually two different questions. In view of this, please inform us of the actions taken so far by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in defence of the right of ethnic Bulgarians in Ukraine to study their mother tongue in Ukrainian public schools. We know that some countries have serious concerns about this law. The Council of Europe, in the face of the Venice Commission, after the Ukrainian side gave it for consultations, recommended a postponement of the application of this law, but in fact we know that it is already being applied. Please also provide information on whether measures have been taken to preserve the Bolgrad region within its current administrative and functional boundaries. Since I said these are two extensive questions, I'm not taking a line. You can also use the backrest time you have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. That's what we specify. If, of course, the Deputy Prime Minister agrees, we could combine time. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u81	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I would like to start by thanking the Bulgarian Parliament, which actively monitors this policy and supports the efforts of the Bulgarian government to guarantee the rights of one of the historical Bulgarian communities abroad. As you, Mrs. Grozdanova, in your question you said, the Bulgarian community there numbers, according to unofficial data, about 250 thousand people who are really well integrated into the public and economic lives of Ukraine. One of the proofs of this is that children of Bulgarian ethnic origin traditionally show the best results of the maturity exams in the state Ukrainian language compared to the other minority groups. I will begin first with an answer to the question of learning mother tongue. After the adoption of the new law, in fact before that, we have expressed our concerns and insist that the new law should not prevent the study of mother tongue in the Ukrainian state education system. I remind you that there is a difference between the way Bulgarian is studied in these schools and schools, for example in Hungary. It is one of the countries that expresses the most serious concerns about the way Hungarian is studied in Ukraine. In Ukraine, Bulgarian as a mother tongue, i.e. second language, is currently being studied in 42 Ukrainian state schools. At the same time we have an extremely well developed system of Sunday schools in Ukraine, which are 75, to Bulgarian organizations. With the adoption of the new law, the analysis of both the embassy and ours and the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Bulgaria shows that it actually gives more opportunities to study more objects than the Bulgarian language in the Ukrainian education system. However, we insist and very soon at the beginning of the month, consultations were held at the level of Deputy Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Ukraine, where an overview of the issues that are important to Bulgaria, one of which is the study of mother tongue. Last year, as you know, there was also a Declaration between the ministries of education that guarantees that the new law will not change and will not prevent the study of mother tongue. However, after this Declaration, it must be signed and a Protocol to it is to be signed. At the invitation of the Bulgarian Deputy Minister of Education in early May is expected Deputy Minister of Education of Ukraine. I hope this will happen and the negotiations on the protocol in question will be finalized. My personal assessment is that the signing of the protocol is delayed not by the Bulgarian side, but by the Ukrainian state. Study is now guaranteed. The opening of a new school is forthcoming, as agreed by the President of Ukraine and the Bulgarian Prime Minister in Odessa. We have provided several buildings, but are still not satisfactory for us. A whole new Bulgarian school in Odessa has been agreed between the Bulgarian Prime Minister and the Ukrainian President, specifying whether this school will be part of a Ukrainian school with a very enhanced study in Bulgarian language, Bulgarian literature, Bulgarian history and other subjects, or will be a private Bulgarian school. The study of mother tongue is guaranteed. Of course, we raise that question all the time and follow it. I am sure that it will be ensured even more fully after the signing of the Protocol to the Declaration between the ministries of education of the two countries. With regard to administrative and territorial reform, I can assure you that absolutely at every meeting, including the meeting between the Bulgarian Prime Minister and the Ukrainian President, between the Bulgarian President and the Ukrainian President, as well as I at every meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the topic has been raised. And not only at bilateral meetings, but in all international forums we raise the issue and insist that administrative and territorial reform should not affect and tear apart the Bulgarian community in Ukraine. We have oral guarantees that this will not happen, but I believe that we must very carefully continue to monitor this issue. Of course, each country has the right to carry out administrative territorial reform, but it should not be directed so as to tear apart the regions where the Bulgarian minority is concentrated there. Once again, thank you for the active activity of all parliamentary groups and I hope with joint efforts to prevent the future administrative and territorial reform from reducing the representativeness of the Bulgarian community in the regional and central parliament of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Declaration on behalf of a group, Mr. Siddy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u83	Ladies and gentlemen! Repressions, dismissals, threats, exclusion of students, disagreement with the opinion of the management. No, it's not a North Korean university. This is Veliko Tarnovo University. St. Cyril and Methodius "in 2019"! A self-forgotten Rector, with the patronage of a ruling party and an ethnic one, severely overwhelms the country's laws and all the rules of academic and student autonomy. Gazi established norms and rules, clinging to his ego and thirst for power. This Rector manages Veliko Tarnovo University one term, but this government is a government marked with dismissals and repression. Deputy Rector Fired in Career Development, current Deputy Minister of Justice, and later fired as a lecturer. After a trial, he was reinstated. Fired Assistant Rector, who is a Member of the National Assembly and as such is on unpaid leave from the court. Threat with disciplinary dismissal of the dean of the largest Faculty of Pedagogical, who is also the main candidate-opportunist of the current management. Changes in the rules of the university and the General Assembly, which concern the procedure of selection of management, adopted in absentia, of signature, in absolute violation of the laws in the country. A series of illegal removals of students and PhD students, members of the Academic and Student Council, some of which conduct cases in which the university's lawyers do not appear to delay the procedure. The Academic Council is meeting without student representation, in absolute violation of the law. The members of the Student Council are officially threatened to be removed in a letter signed by the Rector. The management of the University illegally spends funds from the budget of the Student Council without permission of the Council's management, in violation of art. 72, para. 5 of the Law on Higher Education. However, the Rector does not approve of the expenditures of the Student Council for the production of elections in the branch and college in Pleven and Vratsa. Yesterday at the order of the Rector was thwarted the production of elections for representatives of the students in the General Assembly in violation of art. 72, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education. An attempt was made to seal the Student Council and representatives of the Council were again threatened with exclusion. Security was sent against the students. We note the fact that the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office has initiated pre-trial proceedings for a crime under art. Article 316 and in conjunction with Article 316 Directive 2009/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2009 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such We therefore insist that the Minister of Education come to the National Assembly and explain what the Ministry can do to preserve student autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u84	It was a declaration on behalf of a group. Is Admiral Manushev here? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We continue with the questions to Mr. Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance. Minister Goranov will respond to a request from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov on the results of the activities of the State Financial Inspection Agency. The implementation of the powers to protect the financial interests of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from the State Financial Inspection Act in carrying out the follow-up control of compliance with public procurement legislation. Mr. Ivanov, we expect you to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, my question is: what are the results of carrying out the activities of the State Financial Inspection Agency and what is the result of the follow-up control, namely in the checks carried out under public procurement legislation? What is the protection of the financial interest and resource of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Goranov, come in, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov, strengthening the control carried out by the authorities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection of Procurement and Contract Implementation is one of the government's objectives for protecting financial interests. A priority for the Financial Inspection Agency is to carry out ex post controls on compliance with public procurement legislation. Following the changes in the 2012 Act, this control is carried out on the basis of an established annual plan. The frequency for carrying out financial inspections and specific contracting entities subject to control during the year shall be determined on the basis of an analysis of the information on the procurement activity, the assessment of risk factors and the administrative capacity of the Agency. The planning shall use information received from the Ministry of Finance, the Public Procurement Agency and other state bodies and the managing authorities of the operational programmes, the Commercial Register, information from the registers of the State Financial Inspection and others. This mandate includes 175 financial inspections in the Annual Plan of the State Financial Inspection Agency for 2017 and 175 financial inspections in 2018. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In addition to implementing the established annual inspection plan, including on the legality of procurement, shall also be carried out at the request of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance, by the authorities of the prosecution, on signals from the Directorate-General for Protection of the European Union's financial interests, on applications, complaints, signals and requests from other state authorities, natural and legal persons. For the requested period, the State Financial Inspection Agency has carried out a total of 926 financial inspections, of which 541 are related to checks on the award and execution of public contracts or 58% of the total inspections carried out. A total of 2342 public contracts were verified by the authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency in 2017 and 2018 with over 2.6 billion expenditure. lv. The subject of verification is approximately 10% of the annual average number of public contracts opened by contracting entities. From the verified public procurement infringements were detected in 743 of them. The infringements identified are regarding non-compliance with the principles of publicity and transparency, free competition and equality. There have also been violations relating to the setting of conditions or requirements for participants which give priority or unduly restrict participants in public procurement, as well as infringements relating to the unlawful modification of contracts concluded for procurement. During the checks, 169 cases of uninformed procurement procedures were identified, in the presence of all legal grounds. In the case of inspections carried out in 2017 and 2018, a total of 1607 acts were drawn up to establish administrative infringements, of which 849 were related to procurement. Follow-up measures have been taken for the infringements identified within the competent authorities of the State Financial Inspection Agency. It can be concluded from the checks that in 3% of the annual average number of public contracts found by contracting entities there have been infringements. The results of the inspection activities of the State Financial Inspection Agency show that follow-up control of compliance with procurement legislation should continue and be a priority. At this stage, I believe that the Agency for State Financial Inspection successfully and effectively performs the functions entrusted to it by law and plays an important role in the implementation of public procurement control and the implementation of the contracts concluded. The Agency is also systematically working towards expanding cooperation and interaction with other state institutions responsible for protecting public financial interests, improving coordination and exchange of information, experience and good practices. The Ministry of Finance plays an important role in strengthening the administrative capacity of the control bodies and in optimising the structure of the Agency. In this direction are the latest amendments and additions to the Agency's Rules of Procedure proposed by me and adopted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Two supplementary questions please come in, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. We are satisfied with the data you have provided showing the successful implementation by the Agency for State Financial Inspection of the tasks and powers entrusted to it by law. I appreciate the fact that the Agency for State Financial Inspection enjoys public confidence in the fact that it performs its main function, namely the protection of public financial resources. You are impressed with the results you have reported from the control regarding compliance with public procurement legislation. You have also indicated that the results of the inspection work show that control of the award and execution of public procurement should continue to be a priority for the Agency for State Financial Inspection in the future. I also agree that the administrative capacity of the Agency should be strengthened in relation to the controls carried out and the powers of the Agency. You pointed out that the State Financial Inspection Agency will have a change in the Rules of Procedure resulting precisely from a decision of your Ministry. In this regard, it is my further question to you: what direction are the proposed amendments with regard to the State Financial Inspection Agency and will they affect the state budget? My question is: will this lead to new costs in the alimony of the public administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u90	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer to the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u91	Dear Mr. Ivanov, the proposed and already adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the State Financial Inspection Agency provide for an increase in the number of the specialized administration at the expense of the general administration. With the Agency's main control functions following the change already in force, 86% of employees will be involved, reducing the relative share of the general administration to 11%. Optimising the structure aims to improve the management and operation of the Agency by increasing efficiency in carrying out control activities. There is no influence on the state budget to the extent that all amendments are internally compensated within the Agency's budget, without prejudice to even the budget of the authorising officer, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u92	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Would you like to express yourself, Mr. Ivanov? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for answering my additional question. And in the first reply you mentioned the increasing number of financial inspections from 175 in 2017 regarding the Public Procurement Act in 2018. * 183. I believe that it is precisely the reduction of the general administration in the process of carrying out the activities of the Agency for State Financial Inspection in the field of verifiers that will result in an even more positive result in the conduct of the Agency's activities. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We continue by asking the MP Irena Dimova about the introduction of the electronic procurement platform. Here you are, dear Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As we all know, from 1 November 2019, the Public Procurement Act is introduced and provides for the procurement process to be carried out entirely by electronic means using the electronic platform. This obligation concerns all Member States and derives from European directives in the field of public procurement. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: what is our country's readiness to fulfil this commitment and, in particular, what has been done so far, what is to come about the introduction of the electronic procurement platform?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u96	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ms. Dimova, the Public Procurement Act introduces a requirement that, after 1 November 2019, all contracts be awarded by electronic means using a centralised platform. It is the responsibility of the Public Procurement Agency. The centralized platform is developed under the Project "Development, implementation and support of a single national electronic web-based platform" which is funded under the Operational Programme "Good management" co-financed by the European Social Fund. The implementation of the electronic procurement platform complies with the requirements of a directive under which our country should ensure electronic announcement, all electronic communication in the award process and the possibility of submitting an electronic tender as a minimum level of service. In addition, the European Directive on electronic invoicing in public procurement lays down an obligation for contracting entities to accept an electronic invoice if it complies with the adopted European standard and is sent in agreement with the approved electronic format. The system is constructed on a modular basis and will contain 32 modules in its full functionality. The first stage of development of the system includes 16 modules, part of which are official, and another part includes the main functionalities needed in the award process. By the end of 2020, 16 modules will be developed, tested and put into service, which will electrolyze the entire award process. These modules will be incorporated into the production system gradually, providing the necessary information to consumers. Work in the new environment will require the use of a qualified electronic signature for all legal actions, such as a decision to open public contracts, to extend deadlines, to terminate and other actions described in the Law. The system is a built-in certification service with time stamp of important actions such as sending or withdrawing a tender, publishing, clarification and others. The time stamp ensures accurate control of time limits. It is of particular importance to ensure the confidentiality of tenders and candidates' proposals prior to the opening date. High levels of protection in terms of security of information have been implemented. The system shall not allow unauthorised manipulation of documents by contracting entities and participants. Applications for participation and offers of operators in the system shall be as protected as possible and shall be contained in the databases only in encrypted form before expiry. They will be double encrypted with unique keys generated automatically by the System. They will in turn be encrypted by a key generated on the user's Internet browser. This key will only be known to the participant. It is technically impossible to open an application or offer in the System without explicit additional action to provide the decryption key by the entity involved in the procedure. The platform has undergone an information security assessment and all necessary measures have been taken to limit the risks of malicious attacks or loss of information. Data shall be archived periodically and procedures shall be provided for their recovery as necessary. The system is available in mode 24/7 and the link to it is on the public procurement portal. The provision of expert technical assistance to consumers is carried out by the established End User Service Centre. Electronic guides for contracting entities and economic operators are also provided. Participants in the public procurement market in the country include more than 6500 contracting entities and more than 29,000 contractors and they should all be trained to work with the System. This is a huge challenge that should be overcome by carrying out explanatory campaigns, appropriate trainings, issuing instructions and other appropriate actions. It was developed by a consortium, with a consortium involving several companies. The contractor provides expertise in the field of electronic procurement through the participation of the Bulgarian branch of the Dutch company "Matrix" which is an established provider of public procurement services by electronic means in Europe and in the world. The software solutions of the company are already used by contracting entities in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany, and outside the common European market in the US, Australia and Macedonia. A number of challenges related to the development of the System, the realization of data exchange with other registers and systems, as well as the implementation of interoperability in existing software solutions used by the central public procurement bodies in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, stand before the team of the Public Procurement Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u98	Thank you, Minister Goranov. Mrs. Dimova, you have the opportunity to ask supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u99	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Before I take this opportunity to address my question, I would like to ask the following supplementary question. It is clear from your reply that there is a potential of more than 35,000 organisations, contracting entities and businesses within which there are even more end users of the System. In this regard, I would like to ask you: do you think these individuals will be ready to use the developed functionalities on 1 November 2019 when the legal obligation for electronic procurement comes into force? Wouldn't that somehow make it difficult for contracting entities and businesses to block orders in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u101	Currently, the first 16 functionalities have been developed and adopted, as I commented. They are sufficient for electronic announcement of orders and cover all necessary actions until an electronic offer is received and opened. The Agency has already provided free electronic access to the platform via the public procurement portal for testing. This measure was taken seven months earlier precisely because the seriousness and scale of the change are taken into account, as well as the challenges it poses to all participants in the award process. For the period until November 2019 the system will be available for testing all contracting entities, business entities and other end-users. They will have the opportunity to make their registration, to set up teams to prepare and conduct the orders. During that period, they should update their internal rules and adapt them to the new way of awarding. The users of the platform will have access to the developed modules and will be thoroughly familiar with the available functionalities. They will be able to give recommendations and suggestions for improvement, with the ultimate goal for the 7-month period for all participants to acquire experience and knowledge of its practical implementation with a view to ensuring a smooth transition to electronic award. This period will continue and will serve to test the system load so that sufficient requests are generated to check its stability and reliability. We have the assurance from the technical performers, and the work in the test period so far shows that the system is reliable enough and can bear considerable burden. Over the years, the Agency has made consistent and permanent efforts to electronise processes. Currently, the announcement of orders is entirely electronic with the use of digital signature. It can be said that, to some extent, contracting entities are already prepared for the change, as well as some of the economic operators involved in the procurement of the central award bodies. In this context, special attention will be paid to the business for which they are intended and already have separate training events. The success of the Information System depends to a large extent on the trust of end users, so we hope that, through timely action, we will convince them of the stability of the platform, the advantages of electronic award and overall improvement of the business environment, competition and publicity. The lack of the possibility of interfering with the human factor further guarantees a fair competition, which is the high purpose of public procurement to achieve maximum public interest protection when spending public funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Dimova, please express your attitude to this answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response to this so important topic for society. As we all know, electronic procurement is part of the longer path towards the e-government, which, however, takes place in many steps -- some larger, others smaller. The fact is that correspondence on paper should remain in the past and within the year should be based on purely electronic connectivity. The process of introducing the electronic platform for procurement, as we have all heard, is complex and long. We understand from your answer that there are more than 35,000 real participants and many more potential users. I therefore welcome you to consider the seriousness and scale of the change that has been made and to allow seven months earlier stakeholders to test the first 16 functional modules adopted on the platform. In my opinion, you said that, too, would provide peace, experience and security for all participants in the process and the smooth transition to electronic award. It is also extremely important to ensure the confidentiality of the offers and the proposals of the candidates before the deadline for opening the tenders is reached, so I was pleased to hear that high protections have also been implemented in this direction, which will protect the security of the information, and this will once again provide the necessary calm and trust of the end users. I also welcome the opportunity given to consumers within the 7-month testing period to have the opportunity to give recommendations and suggestions for improving the electronic platform. I am also pleased to hear the fact that the Public Procurement Agency is making consistent and continuous efforts to pay particular attention to the business with which to convince end users of the stability of the platform and the advantages of electronic award. Therefore, I believe that all actions taken in a timely manner by the Agency will contribute to the successful implementation of the centralised automated information system I believe that it will achieve improved business environment, publicity, transparency and, as you said, free competition. Thank you again, Minister, for your comprehensive response.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u104	And thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Allow me to thank Mr. Vladislav Goranov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Minister Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva about the unemployment rates in Blagoevgrad region and the measures to overcome it. Here you are, dear Mrs. Saveclieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is related to the unemployment rates in Blagoevgrad region and the measures to overcome it. Dear Minister, according to data from NSI for 2017 Blagoevgrad district ranks sixth among the 28 districts in the country, with the average annual number of employees in employment and employment is 89 746, representing 3.9 of the total number of employees in the country. The largest number of employees in the district of Sofia is specifically in the capital city of 739 thousand and the smallest is in Vidin district of just over 16 thousand. In this regard, I ask you to answer: what is the current information about the unemployment rates for 2018 in Blagoevgrad region as a whole and for each of the municipalities in particular, and what is the comparative analysis for the past years? What measures and programmes do the Ministry's regional structures propose to reduce unemployment?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Dear Minister Petkov, please answer the question you asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveklieva, in the context of economic revival, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy implements a employment policy to improve the quality of the workforce in the regions, on the one hand, and on the other, to reduce regional differences and unemployment among the unequal groups of local labour markets. Specifically on your question. In Blagoevgrad district, unemployment is low 4.7% for 2018 according to data from the National Statistical Institute and is below the national average, which is 5.2% last year. It should be noted that there is a favourable trend. Since 2014, the unemployment rate in the district has decreased by 9.4 percentage points. Data from the administrative statistics of the Employment Agency for 2018 show that in Blagoevgrad district the registered unemployed are 14 474, of all unemployed in the country 7.4% are in this area. The rate of unemployment in municipalities varies greatly, with the lowest rate in March this year in municipalities with developed tourism "Bansko," Sandanski, Razlog, and in the larger cities of Blagoevgrad, Petrich, Gotse Delchev. The highest unemployment rate in the municipality of Belitsa was 39,8%, and the municipality of Yakoruda was 30,2%, and there was a downward trend. The funds for active policy shall be allocated by districts depending on the unemployment rate and the number of unemployed. For Blagoevgrad district for this year are provided by the state budget 4 million. 786 thousand. BGN 458 which will ensure the employment of 885 unemployed persons and training of 1095 persons. By March, 310 unemployed persons were employed. In particular, under the Career Start Programme, 73 unemployed young people work in the district and municipal administrations; 72 disabled persons are involved in employment under the respective National Employment Action Plan; 39 long-term unemployed persons are appointed under the Programme for Long-term unemployed, and under the Programme the Help for Retirement and 36 persons over the age of 58 will receive their internship. The projects of the social partners will train 1043 unemployed and have already started training 111 of them. Two Roma mediators, four youth mediators, a case manager, a psychologist and 16 social worker organizers are working on the Inactive Activation Program. In encouraging employment measures, 209 unemployed from planned 300 were included by the end of March. 24 unemployed persons are trained and 22 more persons will be involved by the end of the year. In May the Regional Employment Programme of Blagoevgrad region will be established, on which with 569 thousand will be established. BGN 797. the employment of around 130 unemployed people will be ensured in various activities of the municipalities. The area uses funds not only from the state budget, but also from the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." Nine projects are implemented by providing the employment of 4527 unemployed, of which 649 are people with permanent disabilities; 1003 are young people up to 29 years of age; 311 persons are enrolled in training and 3062 employed persons have received vouchers for vocational training. In conclusion, after the many data I have submitted in response to your question, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to implement and develop a policy to promote employment for all unemployed, including for Blagoevgrad district. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u109	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question was mostly related to allegations that our district of Blagoevgrad, in particular the municipality of Blagoevgrad, is almost in collapse precisely because people cannot find work. The unemployment rate is high. Your response shows that this does not correspond to the truth at all, on the contrary, the district is generally below the national average as unemployment. My observations also show that many of the working companies are more difficult to find labour and this actually prevents them from expanding their activities. Thank you for your answer, I'm pleased.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? You will not take this right. Allow me to thank Minister Biser Petkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. She will answer a question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev, concerning the DESIRE Gas Program. Mr. Matsurev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, the DESIRE Gas Programme is aimed at promoting the replacement of low-efficiency energy sources used in Bulgarian homes, including electricity, wood and coal, with more efficient ecologically clean natural gas energy. The programme aims to provide financing, grants and technical assistance for projects for transition from carbon-intense electricity to natural gas in Bulgarian households. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: how is the implementation of the Programme to date and what is the time when Bulgarian consumers will be able to take advantage of it? As a representative from Blagoevgrad district, I would like to receive more information about the implementation of the Programme on the territory of Blagoevgrad district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u112	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, the DESIRE Gas Programme is funded by the International Fund, which is financed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and is implemented by the Ministry of Energy. The programme supports the transition from carbon-intensive sources to more favourable natural gas. Therefore, an important effect of the Programme is the reduction of energy consumption and CO2 missions in the residential sector. The expected reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is 70 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide. Through the Programme, citizens can receive grants for gasification of their home, with the total amount of money being 10 million. EUR, which will be sufficient for the gasification of about 10 thousand households. The programme started in 2016, with the start of the grant amount being set by the financing institution at 20% of the eligible costs without value added tax. Also, some of the necessary costs were not considered eligible and were therefore not covered by those 20% grant. For this reason, the Programme saved the owners really about 16% of all the gasification costs of the home. The average amount of grants granted during this period was between 350 and 400 euros. Watching the pace of implementation in the first year, the Ministry of Energy analysed the obstacles to the more active involvement of citizens and took action to renegotiate the conditions with the funding institution and the European Commission, which is the main donor of the International Fund. Thanks to this, since the summer of 2018, the DESIRE Gas Programme has been implemented under more attractive conditions, providing 100% of the price of accession without value added tax as eligible cost for grants, i.e. full subsidy, and increasing the level of grant to 30% of the remaining eligible costs. In this way, owners receive more than 30% of all gasification costs, with most beneficiaries currently reaching the maximum allowable grant amount of EUR 1200. An important point here is that for the owners who have joined under the old conditions, a mechanism is provided to compensate for the monthly accounts so that they can benefit from the increased amount of the grant. The eligible beneficiary of the program are owners of natural persons who want to pass from wood, coal, electricity or oil of natural gas. Each user can apply individually, no association is necessary. The administrative application procedure is extremely easy and at the shortest possible time for approval. The duration of the Programme is until June 2020, as gasification applications will be approved until the financial resource has been spent, with the call being the first in line, first in law. As of 7 July 2016, when the Programme was opened, 6753 applications have been submitted to the Commission since 4637 are fully completed, i.e. the homes are gaseous and are already benefiting from ecologically clean fuel. As regards your question about Blagoevgrad, 117 applications have been submitted under the Programme, that is, 117 households, 72 households already use natural gas, the rest are in the process of implementation. Thirty-nine applications have been submitted by the city of Blagoevgrad and all 39 households have been approved and 21 of the households have already completed their activities. Seventy-one applications were submitted by Petrich, six from Bansko and one from Sandanski. As I have already mentioned, the Programme is open until the middle of next year, so that all who wish could apply and benefit from the grant of this grant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Matsurev, come in, you have a chance to say a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am extremely delighted with the reference I received at the moment. This is a very good Programme that the citizens of our country can benefit from. I am impressed that Blagoevgrad has so many applications and also Bansko and the region. From the information presented here, it is clear that more and more people are interested in this program. I have an additional question for you: if the available financial resource is exhausted, is there an option to increase the funds under the Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u116	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Dear Minister Petkova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, a very relevant question. Given the advantages that natural gas gives as an environmentally friendly raw material that provides the necessary energy for life, for industry, this is indeed extremely important with regard to the DESIRE programme. What I can certainly say is that there is an option, if this resource is exhausted, we should further request donors to increase the resource. If the resource is exhausted, we hope to get there, because this means that more households will be gassed, there is an opportunity for us to request additional funding from the donors. So there won't be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u118	Thank you, Minister Petkova. We continue with a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev about the Programme BG04 Energy efficiency and renewable energy. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev, to raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister! Energy efficiency and renewable energy was aimed at increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources for heating buildings, production of biomass fuels, as well as activities for training and promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy measures. During the last programming period in Burgas was realized the biggest project under the so-called Norwegian program. A project worth 835 thousand was funded within the Programme. lv. for the overall modernization of the district heating plant in the Burgas district of Medden Ruse. The new facility has great power to burn biomass and thanks to it today two kindergartens and one school are heated. The benefits of the program are indisputable. It's close to 28 million. lv. is the financial resource that has been put into the territory of the whole country for various energy efficiency measures, including the use of RES for heating buildings, production of biomass fuels and other such. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: within what deadlines is the launch of the new energy efficiency programme expected and are its parameters clear; what will be its financial resources and which will be the potential beneficiaries; will the Bulgarian municipalities again be able to take advantage of the opportunities of this programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u120	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u121	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, as you rightly pointed out, the positive effect of the previous energy efficiency programme was really very serious, was significant. The fact is, nearly 28 million. lv. were spent for various energy efficiency measures and the beneficiary of these measures were the Bulgarian municipalities. 52 grant contracts were concluded and implemented and energy efficient activities were implemented in 115 buildings of municipal property, of which 40 schools, 55 kindergartens, 8 medical centers, 12 social institutions and administrative buildings. Another important result of the Programme is, of course, the saved CO2 emissions of 71 809 tonnes. The energy saved on an annual basis is about 5605 megawatt hours and therefore the increased production of energy from renewable sources is 43,280 megawatt hours. The Ministry of Energy is also a programme operator of the new Programme "Renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy security" financed by the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area 2014 - 2021. The Programme has a budget of nearly 33 million. EUR, of which 28 million EUR, or 85% is a grant, and about 5 million. EUR, or 15% national co-financing, i.e. this is twice as much as the budget in the previous programming period. In particular, your question about the beneficiaries of the Programme. Yes, the Bulgarian municipalities will be beneficiaries again under the new programme, with the envisaged financial resource of the procedures that will be opened to the municipalities is close to 27 million. EUR, such as 3.5 million. EUR of this resource is allocated to water companies that are also part of municipal infrastructure, so there will also be an opportunity for this sector, which is extremely important, to provide such financial support. Street lighting activities, geothermal and water energy use, increasing the energy efficiency of buildings will be financed in order to achieve energy-class "A" or near-zero-energy buildings. These are all measures for the Bulgarian municipalities and they can only be beneficiaries of these procedures. In this programming period there is a separate procedure for the business, which will also be a beneficiary of the Programme. What is envisaged is support for implementing measures to improve energy efficiency in the industry. I think this is a new moment compared to the previous period. This will give very good results in terms of the energy intensity of the Bulgarian industry. This means that the smaller it is, the smaller the costs will be incurred for this type of resources and consequently greater investment resources can be allocated. This is a new and very good step forward. Other beneficiaries of the Programme will be the training organisations for which small grant schemes for different trainings related to the thematic areas of the Programme are provided. Thus, in relation to such training activities, to clarify and what the effect of the relevant measures is, they will also be able to be beneficiaries. So we have made sure in this second programming period that the whole process can be covered and that it has the maximum effect of this programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Boychev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased that the financial opportunities of this programme are increased because this is a very important programme, and as I understand it now, the opportunities and beneficiaries that can apply for it are increased. This is very important for business. Energy efficiency is our future, and we must all strive to make much more effort in this direction. We also know the value of the emissions we pay, so the Programme is very important. The municipalities have already accumulated administrative capacity and the interest in the Programme is great, and their ability to enter this new programming period with a flying start is also great. Congratulations on the greater opportunities you give in this programming period. My specific question is: when will you give an official start to the Programme so that the various beneficiaries can prepare in advance, so that they can apply immediately after the start of the Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u124	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, yes, a very important issue that is related to the real start of the program. The real start of the Programme will be given on 22 May 2019 and we expect immediately after that the start of the first half of June to be given to the first lot of the Programme, which is related to implementing measures in relation to street lighting. So on 22 May 2019 the official start will be given. Perhaps it is also important to say that our Norwegian partners will also be present within the event. There will be companies from Norway that can enter into partnership with Bulgarian municipalities and with Bulgarian companies. So there will be such an opportunity, because I think that such a partnership is extremely important and at least in the previous programming period it has given extremely good results. For this reason, we believe that it is still very appropriate to continue this policy with regard to the measures and activities to be carried out jointly with the Norwegian partners. At the event on 22 May there will be an opportunity to provide immediate opportunity for contacts and for joint activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u126	Thank you, dear Minister. This ended with the questions to Minister Petkova. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We are continuing with the Minister of Economy, Emil Karanikolov. He will answer a question from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva about foreign direct investments in the territory of Blagoevgrad region. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is related to foreign direct investments in the territory of Blagoevgrad region as a whole and to municipalities in particular. Dear Minister, in recent months there has been a lot of comment on the share of investments in Bulgaria. This was also the subject of your last hearing in the National Assembly. Blagoevgrad District, where I am a Member of the National Assembly, is one of the major areas in Bulgaria and this topic is especially relevant. As the highway progresses, the people's expectations are linked to an increase in investment. In this regard, my questions to you are: do you have any up-to-date information on the levels of investment in Blagoevgrad to provide us with? What does the comparative analysis show in recent years? What is the structure of these investments? Are there investments planned on certified projects in Blagoevgrad district?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, first of all, I want to thank you for your question. I will answer the question you have asked, as well as provide the latest data to BNB on the amount of foreign direct investment. I think it'll be interesting. Thank you again for the question. I would like to emphasise that overcoming regional differences in economic development and promoting economic growth in all regions is one of the key policy priorities pursued by the government and the Ministry of Economy. In this respect, the projects financed by the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" are important for investment activity. Since the beginning of the 2014 OPIC programming period in the territory of Blagoevgrad region projects have been implemented at a total value of more than 31 million. BGN, of which nearly 15 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. These are a total of 32 beneficiaries of the Operational Programme from all municipalities in the district. The grant paid at present amounts to more than 6 million. lv. Secondly, I would like to draw a general picture of investment. We are reading a positive trend for increasing the number and size of projects carried out in Bulgaria by both foreign and local companies. This positive development is also reflected in the macroeconomic indicators measuring the investments of direct foreign investments reported by the Bulgarian National Bank, the gross capital formation of fixed capital in the amount of DMA reported by the National Statistical Institute. I would like to note that about 20 days ago one of the first forecasts of the Bulgarian National Bank came out, which showed that foreign direct investments for 2018 amounted to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that A few days ago, the new forecast came out, which shows that investments for 2018 currently amount to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 Of course, I must point out that this is a preliminary 15-month forecast. However, what I would like to draw attention to is the information that came out for 2017. It has already been almost 15 months here and I believe that these are final forecasts. Until 20 days ago, foreign direct investments in Bulgaria for 2017 were reported at 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that According to the latest information from the Bulgarian National Bank, investments in Bulgaria for 2017 are more than 2 billion. 300 million. EUR, which is about 1 billion. EUR more than the average in the last 10 years. I note that both the National Assembly and the government have been in the middle of 2017, that is, this positive growth we have made in just over six months. There is a positive trend in Blagoevgrad district for attracting foreign direct investment in the real sector. The National Statistical Institute reports a doubling of their size for the period 2010-2017 of 252 million. EUR in 2010 at 474 million EUR for 2017. By size of foreign investment Blagoevgrad district occupies eighth place of 28 districts in the country. In 2017, the value of foreign investments in the service sector was the highest. Euros. In the enterprises in the sector of industry, with the exception of construction, I pay attention, 135 million have been invested in the district. EUR direct foreign investment. In the area of total, the two sectors form more than 80% of all foreign direct investments. They are mostly made in enterprises within the municipality of Petrich. Another indicator that measures investments is costs for the acquisition of fixed tangible assets. In 2017 in Blagoevgrad they were 487 million. lv. The region's potential to attract investment not only in tourism is increasing with the construction of the highway. In this regard, local initiatives also help to make full use of the opportunities for development of the area. I just want to make a few comments here. First, at the moment, as chairman of this committee with the assistance of the government, we are developing a plan for industrial zones in Bulgaria, which are yet to develop, and Blagoevgrad is also entering this project. I hope we'll be ready in a few months. I also have an appeal to the local self-government to provide information about land that are intended for investment, so that the Agency for Investment Promotion and the National Company of Industrial Zones is able to make a presentation of these terrains and more and more, as at the moment there is extremely much interest in investment in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian state will present them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with the answer. It also relates to my previous question to the Minister of Labour and Social Care for the real situation in the area of which I am a Member of the National Assembly, namely Blagoevgrad District. The numbers speak best. It is these claims that show that almost investments do not happen and our district is in a very difficult situation, the same is true for the town of Blagoevgrad as a municipality, but the figures you said are really fracking. I am glad that your work is focused and you continue to think precisely in this direction about increasing investment. Moreover, Blagoevgrad, as you said, is eighth in the 28 districts, such as direct and foreign investments, of which 245 million. EUR is invested in the services, 135 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. So when the figures speak, I think any other insinuations and false claims are meaningless. Thank you again for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Mr. Minister's coat? There won't be. We continue with the next question to Minister Karanikolov of the National Representative Krastina Taskova on spending funds from the capital of the Bulgarian Development Bank. Dear Ms. Taskova, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, on 26 July 2017 the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics gave its support for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, with which the capital manager of the Bulgarian Development Bank will be the Minister of Economy and not the Minister of Finance. Our arguments for this were that in view of the objectives and activities for which the Bulgarian Development Bank was established and the competences that the Minister of Economy has will thus improve the coordination and effectiveness of the definition and implementation of state policies in support of small and medium-sized enterprises and increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy as a whole. In this regard, I put two questions to you, one of which is: how have you used these resources so far and how is the Bulgarian business going? And the second question is: how many companies are funded to date and with what subject of activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Dear Mrs. Taskova, Dear Guests of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria! In carrying out its activities the Bulgarian Development Bank consistently implements the goals and tasks set by the Bulgarian Development Bank Act, which complement state policies in support of small and medium-sized enterprises and contribute to increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. The business model of the Bulgarian Development Bank as a development bank is specific. The Bank applies development policies that respect market and financial disciplines without seeking to maximize our profits. The Bulgarian Development Bank does not use state guarantees either on its credit portfolio or on the resource it attracts on its liability, with the exception of the mandate in the National Energy Efficiency Programme. During the period the Bulgarian Development Bank wisely managed the capital at its disposal and maintained its long-term investment credit rating the highest for the banks operating in Bulgaria. In its activities the Bulgarian Development Bank places a special focus on lending to small and medium-sized enterprises, micro- and start-ups. With its loans, micro-credits, micro-leases and portfolio guarantees, both directly and indirectly, through the subsidiaries of the Bulgarian Development Bank Group, the National Fund of Investment, the Micro-financing Institution of Jobs and commercial partner banks, the Group provides financial resources necessary for the development of small and medium-sized businesses. Through their two main approaches, at the end of 2018, the share of small and medium-sized enterprises exceeds 95% of the total number of borrowers receiving funding provided directly or indirectly by and through the Bulgarian Development Bank Group. The Bank's assets amount as of 31 December 2018 reached 3 billion. 24 million. lv. compared to the end of 2017 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning 472 million. lv. 23 contracts with 14 financial institutions, five banks and nine non-bank institutions with a total value of 244 million were signed under the on-lending programmes of the Bulgarian Development Bank. lv. and a residual debt of 157 million. lv. The funds from these programmes financed 1574 credit and leasing products for small and medium-sized enterprises. These are: The program "Prev", The program for................................ Wein...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Bulgarian Development Bank provides a financial resource from the European Fund for Strategic Investments under the Investment Plan for Europe, popular as the Plan "Juncker" in support of the Bulgarian business as a partner bank. In the third quarter of 2018, the Bulgarian Development Bank entered into the first indirect financing contract with a partner bank, including assuming guarantees up to 100% with a payment limit of 30%. The programme is aimed at micro, small and intermediate enterprises. The Bulgarian Development Bank contributes to the realization of the large-scale investment programme "National Energy Efficiency Programme" for the renovation of the housing fund in line with Bulgaria's commitment to reduce emissions, energy losses and energy costs of households. The programme is implemented in 265 municipalities across the country. Since the launch of the Programme until the end of 2018, the Bulgarian Development Bank has concluded agreements of a total of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, including a commitment under approved but still outstanding funding amounting to 110 million. lv. And granted 1973 credits. A total of 1 billion have been repaid by the end of December 2018. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, BGN, the repayment of the loan under the Programme shall be carried out in As of 31 December 2018, the existing loans were 717 with a portfolio of 472 million. lv. At the end of December 2018, the gross amount of the portfolio of direct loans to non-financial customers increased nominally by 334 million. lv. As regards 2017, reaching 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the During the past period the Bulgarian Development Bank supported and funded projects of innovative companies from different sectors of the economy, including: aviation and transport services; aquaculture; canning industry; information services and microelectronics; agricultural production; furniture; polygraph industry; pulp and paper production. The Bulgarian Development Bank invested in the third bond issue of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in order to support its initiative for sectoral reforms and achieve higher financial sustainability of the company. In accordance with the Bulgarian Development Bank Act in 2018, a Capital Investment Fund with initial capital of 65 million was established. lv. In the beginning of 2019 the Group of the Bulgarian Development Bank was extended to companies with the Bulgarian Development Bank Leasing and the Bulgarian Development Bank Factoring. A new direction in the development of the subsidiary is the concentration in the niche of the smallest loans of up to 100 thousand. lv. It has provided funding of almost 35 million since the beginning of its activities. lv. A total of 679 micro- and small enterprises. Currently, the National Guarantee Fund has three existing guarantee programmes under which a total of 17 funding institutions are planned. As of 31 December 2018, the National Guarantee Fund has issued guarantee commitments of a total of 469 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, lv. With the creation of the Capital Investment Fund, the Bulgarian Development Bank is fulfilling its strategic task of supporting the Bulgarian business set by the legislator with the adoption of the 2017 Strategy. And then there's the column that's broken down into everything I said. Thank you for your question... was extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u137	I, too, thank you, Dear Minister, for your comprehensive response and the information provided to us, because the Ministry, which you are leading, is very much concerning important issues in general about the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. From the answer you provided, I rather get the impression that the support we have given for the Bill and the transition of the Bulgarian Development Bank to the Ministry of Economy was extremely objective and correct and I wish you success. Let all Bulgarian enterprises feel more competitive and develop the economy in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-19.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. A hole? I won't. Thank you for participating today in the parliamentary control, dear Minister. The next regular plenary session of 9:00 p.m. on 24 April 2019 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
