ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft for the National Assembly's work for the period from 29 May to 31 May 2019: "1." New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Property, adopted by the National Assembly on 15 May 2019, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 124 of 23 May 2019 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Second vote on the bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019, adopted at first vote on 4 April 2019. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. Importers: Iglika Sabeva, Anna Alexandrova, Maria Ilieva and Dimitar Lazarov on 12 April 2019 and Hamid Hamid on 18 April 2019. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Services Activities. Importer: Council of Ministers on 8 April 2019, adopted at first vote on 9 May 2019. Point 1 for Thursday 30 May 2019 5. Annual report on the activities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2018. Importer: Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on 19 April 2019 Point 2 for Thursday 30 May 2019 6. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2018. Importer: Energy and Water Regulatory Commission on 29 March 2019. Point 3 for Thursday 30 May 2019 7. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the agenda so presented. Vote 138 MPs: 135, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I'll present to your attention and a few messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 15 May 2019 to 28 May 2019: A bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Sincere Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency for 2018 Importer: The Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill to amend the Law on Law Enforcement. Importers: Simeon Georgiev Naydenov and Slavi Dichev Netzov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft decision for privatization of a part of the property of the Port of Vidin. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on settlement of real estate issues for the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. Draft Law amending the Law on Political Parties. Importer: Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2018. Importer: Commission for Protection of Competition. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Importer: Daniela Daritkova. Messages: - on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 27 May 2019 a Decree No 124 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act adopted by the National Assembly on 15 May 2019 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the Committee on Legal Affairs to report to the Members of the National Assembly and to the President's reasons. - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised an aircraft from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria with a crew of servicemen to perform flights on 23 May 2019 to Otopeny Airport Romania, and vice versa. The flights will be carried out with the aim of providing air transport to air servicemen from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in a day of high-ranking guests during the pilot training of aircraft. In order to carry out the task, alternate aeroplanes with relevant crews have been designated. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 22 May 2019. No 903-09-24 and granted to the Defence Committee. - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that during the period from 28 May to 28 June 2019 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria there will be joint preparation of the 68th Brigade Special Forces with the forces for special operation of the United States. Forces and funds from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and soldiers from the US Special Operations Forces with equipment and equipment will participate in the preparations. The preparation is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming military operations, as well as activities to prevent military action conducted by others, another State or organisation of armed forces. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 27 May 2019. No 903 09-25 and granted to the Defence Committee. - on 28 May 2019 was received a Report on the results of a survey conducted by the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies on the legislative activity of the Forty-fourth National Assembly for the period 19 April "25 April 2017. According to the requirements laid down in art. 17 of the financial rules under the budget of the National Assembly, an annex to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, the report and its annexes will be published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. - on 20 May 2019 the National Assembly was submitted for information Report on the state of administration in 2018, adopted by Decision No 273 of the Council of Ministers of 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - On 22 May 2019 the National Assembly was provided with a developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an opinion on the subject of the implementation of the system of aggregated calculation of working time. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee and the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds and was available to the Members of the National Assembly. - the National Assembly has received a report from the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 22 April 2019 to 21 May 2019 and Protocol No 19 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 May 2019 at which the report is reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the minutes were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute received information on inflation and consumer price indices for April 2019; gross domestic product for the first quarter of 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly in the first quarter of 2019. On 28 May 2019 in the implementation of the National Assembly Decision of 7 February 2019 adopted in connection with the debates on inquiry No 954-05-1 from 11 January 2019 by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Gokov, Ilian Timchev, Ivan Ibrishimov, Anelia Klisarova and Valentina Naydenova, materials have been received from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the organization of transplant treatment in Bulgaria. The materials are sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and are available at the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE OWNITY, ADMITTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 15 MAY 2019, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAYN No 124 OF 23 MAY 2019 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TOUCH. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to the Chair of the Legal Commission to brief us on the report. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 124 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 27 May 2019 on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Property, adopted by the National Assembly on 15 May 2019 and the reasons to the Decree At its meeting held on 28 May 2019 the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 124 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 27 May 2019, for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Property, adopted by the National Assembly on 15 May 2019 and the reasons to the Decree. The meeting was attended by: the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Emilia Drumeva, Secretary for Legal Affairs, and Mrs. Nevin Feti, Advisor for Legal Affairs; from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, Mrs. Valentin Yovev, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Boyanka Georgieva, Director of Legal Affairs, Mrs. Boyana Hadjieva, Senior Legal Consult, and Mrs. Ivelina Mincheva, State Expert at the Department of State Property, and by the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister, and Mrs. Galina Dimitrova, State Expert in the Directorate of Laws. Prof. Emilia Drumeva reported to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns the provisions of § 3, item 3 to the National Assembly for a new discussion. 1 concerning Art. 39b, para. 1, t. 1 in the part or sites of national importance. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. In its motives, the President states that the changes to the pre-execution of estrangements are applicable to national sites, but with the proposed changes to them are added objects of national importance defined as such by law or by an act of the Council of Ministers. The veto noted that in the absence of criteria on which the Council of Ministers declared the sites of national importance, the scope of the preliminary implementation could affect numerous private properties without guarantees that these are objects of common use in the public interest. The President objects to the introduction of a restriction on the amount of the monetary guarantee laid down by the court, which is one third of the compensation under the alienation act. He points out that there is no argument in the reasons attached to the Bill as to why the guarantee is set at one third and not at a higher or lower value, and considers that the fixed amount of the guarantee only in relation to the compensation determined by the estrangement act reduces the security that the owner will receive equivalent compensation as required by Article. 17, para. 5 of the Constitution. According to the Head of State, the equivalent compensation should be calculated not only on the basis of a market valuation of the property, but also covering the lost benefits and the damage suffered. The Head of State also expressed his disagreement with the introduction of an exception to the rule providing for a special scheme for compensation for the expropriation of agricultural land and forest areas where a natural person, a legal person or the same co-owners have such properties with a total area of more than 50 acres. He points out that there are no arguments in the reasons of the submitted bill why exactly properties with a total area of more than 50 acres are concerned. The President believes that the change made creates a risk instead of speeding up the process of building significant national sites to slow it down. The Minister of Justice pointed out that the Constitutional Court ruled on estranged proceedings, which is also the main focus of legislative changes. He noted that the change concerning the amount of the cash guarantee of one third of the compensation paid is balanced and serves to safeguard the interests of the owner of the property. Mr. Kirilov added that the amendment of art. 42a creates a flexible legal opportunity between monetary and property compensation in view of the fact that agricultural land or forest areas are a national value. Mr. Jobev expressed his gratitude to the President for supporting the philosophy of the Law, but expressed his disagreement with the returned provisions for a new discussion. He pointed out that the amendments to the Law on State Property are in full compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the discussion took part the People's Representative Alexander Nenkov, who expressed his disagreement with the President's motives for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Property, pointing out that it fully found the balance between private and state property, and that private property is protected to the maximum extent. He noted that the amount of the guarantee set out in the amount of one third of the compensation paid is fully sufficient to cover the requirements of the compensation provided for therein and to ensure fully the rights of the owners concerned, including in the event of an increase in the amount of the compensation fixed by the court. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the National Assembly, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Property Act adopted by the National Assembly on 15 May 2019 read more.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a new discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Property. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will make a brief statement with the legal arguments. First of all, in its motives, the President states that the change made to the concept of a national object creates a risk in the application of, exceptionally, pre-execution of estrangement acts only for national sites which are undoubtedly for general use and it is in the public interest to become a rule. Given the discretion of the Council of Ministers to announce objects of national importance, the scope of the pre-execution of non-executive estrangement acts, according to the President, can significantly increase and spread over numerous private properties. Here we should note that we disagree with his thesis, because the amendments adopted in 2003 in the Law on Construction on the territory were created. 62 of the "Additional provisions', i.e.: 62: A national object is an object designated as such by an act of the Council of Ministers. It should not be forgotten that at the beginning of the government of the Political Party GERB has changed this provision, and we have changed the definition of a national object by adding, we have considered the importance and provided for the possibility, first and foremost, that a national object should be one defined by law, and only as a second opportunity to preserve the text in force by an act of the Council of Ministers. The change was published in issue 87 of the Official Journal of the European Union on 5 November 2010. The proposed change by extending the scope of the Institute of Pre-execution of the estrangement act does not prejudge the emergence of a vicious practice, as the regulation was introduced back in 2003 and the declaration of a national object by a decision of the Council of Ministers is conditional on the indication of clear and undisputed arguments concerning the national importance of universal utility of the site. Secondly, we do not share the President's motives for determining the amount of the monetary guarantee, which is one third of the amount of the compensation paid, because the mechanism of the introduced benefits, in which the rights of property owners who alienate the property to be protected are fully preserved. It is the Court that continues to determine the amount of the monetary guarantee for the compensation lodged. The change adopted regarding the amount of the monetary guarantee of one third of the compensation paid is ensured and foreseeable that it will not be of a symbolic amount. On the contrary, a determination of the guarantee will be achieved, making it easier for the court to determine the amount of the guarantee. In accordance with practice, the court can currently determine a larger or smaller amount of the guarantee depending on the interests of the owner of the property. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Property Act defines this amount to be exactly one third of the compensation paid. At the same time, the reserve needs of the owner of the alienated property must be respected. In the event of damage resulting from the estrangement procedure, regardless of their size, the owner of the estranged property will be compensated and its damage reparated. The monetary guarantee established by the court is not relevant for the protection of the rights of the owner of the estrangement act, but has only a guarantee function. We therefore believe that the envisaged amount of the monetary guarantee of one third is consistent with the need for a monetary guarantee when the act of expropriation is committed in advance, taking into account the role of the State as a party to the estrangement procedure. Thirdly, we do not support the thesis of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria that the provision creates inequality between the small and large owners of agricultural and forestry territories. The proposed amendment to § 4 of the Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act aims to meet precisely the public expectations for fair compensation. In the case of an economic entity that owns undersized properties and properties with a total area of over 50 acres, it is economically justified to assume that it has invested in inventory, facilities, labour. Money compensation for undersized property is economically unjustified and unfair, as this economic entity has an interest in maintaining, processing and managing agricultural land and forest areas. We therefore believe that it is justified in the estranged procedure, when the owners are compensated, to take into account their interest as the 50 decare criterion is an indication of the interest of the owner in monetary or property compensation, and the determination of the size as a criterion is entirely within the prerogative of the legislative authority and its size is discussed both in the direction of its increase and in the direction of its reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, before I make a speech, I will ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Valentin Yovev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u7	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Jobev to the Chamber. Please continue, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u8	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Most of the legal arguments for not supporting the President's veto and re-voting the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Property Act have been heard by Mrs. Anna Alexandrova, Chairman of the Legal Commission. I will also refer to a few moments from the veto that were covered by her commentary, but perhaps with a slightly different look. First of all, the President says he welcomes the changes, generally supports the idea. In fact, with this veto and with those provisions that he wants to be rejected, it is the exact opposite of what is written in the reasoning. With its veto in practice, it does not support in any way the idea of accelerating the investment process not only in terms of infrastructure sites such as highways, pipelines, ports, but also in terms of the construction of industrial zones. This is on the general part of the motives formed as a preamble before the President's arguments. The main argument that develops at point one of the motives of the President's veto is that, in fact, with the Law adopted hardly, if it is not violated, at least the provision of the Constitution is being circumvented in art. 17 in respect of the right to property, referring to grounds that, with the provision of a guarantee, with the amount of one third of a guarantee, almost in this way private ownership is violated, the President has recorded the following: The possibility for the investor to enter into ownership of private property and to start construction activities by paying only the compensation, according to the non-resident estrangement act and additional guarantee of a severely reduced amount, is in practice allowed the right of ownership to be seized. Except as a legal nonsense, this cannot otherwise be determined, since in no way are those provisions which are recorded in the Law and specifically in its § 3 there is no revocation of the right of ownership. So I will allow myself to quote what is written in para. Art. 1 of § 3 and art. 39b: Within seven days of receipt of a request by the authority that issued the act of alienation and/or by the investor, the court in closed session shall allow the pre-execution of the act of alienation where this is necessary in order to protect particularly important state or public interests, subject to the following conditions:... That is, this norm is imperative, there is no way without these conditions to continue the estrangement procedure. The property is designed for the construction of a national site or object of national importance within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the territory; 2. the property is not only the owner's apartment; Point 3, the most important point in this case, which in fact fully disproves the President's claim of even a shadow of doubt in terms of constitutionality, namely the compensation determined by the act, has been paid at the expense of the entitled persons and in the cases referred to in art. 39a, para. 1 as well as in cases where no account has been provided by the entitled persons at the account of the district governor. The conditions which the Constitution says are fulfilled and which are cited in the veto's motives for expropriating private property for the implementation of important state or municipal projects and needs to take place only after prior and equivalent compensation. The bail that the president is talking about does not constitute this compensation. Here, unfortunately, again we have a mix-up and confusion about what is compensation for alienation and what is the meaning and idea of the guarantee due by the investor. In the first version, i.e. before changes were made to the Legal Commission during the second reading, the guarantee was set to one third, which really raised some doubts as to whether this guarantee would protect the interests of the owners of alienated property. However, with the adjustment made to a third, that is, not to a third, but certainly to a third, I believe that these interests are protected and that in no way comes to harm, as the President stated in the decree with which he returned the New Discussion Act. With regard to the analysis made in the reasons for the fact that a decision of the Council of Ministers can announce the objects of national importance and overly expanded their scope, I believe that, on the other hand, there is, in fact, full publicity and transparency and, in practice, if it is declared by such a decision an object which does not meet the relevant legal requirements, it cannot go unnoticed and this act of the Council of Ministers cannot be excluded, including by the interested parties. In conclusion, I can say that, unfortunately, we have a veto before us again, which is motivated and which is based on arguments, pseudolegal arguments I would call them, which unfortunately do not correspond to the essence of the Law and what is actually provided for in it. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that on the part of the Presidential Institution we seem to have brought in and returned laws in spite of, without having the appropriate clear and precise legal justification. Here we are witnessing, again I say to a veto where there are sentences that can be defined as legal nonsense, such as the fact that this law takes the right to private property, which I would call legal absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ivanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In addition to the legal arguments put forward by the previous speakers from rejecting the president's veto on the State Property Act, there are also purely economic ones that I would like to discuss in more detail, namely that Bulgaria's gross domestic product in 2009 was 65 billion. BGN, while in 2019 it is expected to be 117 billion. BGN, i.e. the increase is 40% in the last 11 years. As you know, the last 11 years have been characterized by the construction of more and more infrastructure sites of national importance and not only highways, we are talking about pipelines, we are talking about railway routes, we are talking about, if you want from the energy system, high voltage routes, water networks, water treatment stations, national sites. Unemployment is record low, reached levels of slightly above 5% at the end of 2019 and the trend is expected to strengthen in the coming years of economic growth. The country's exports have increased more than twice since 2009 and already exceeds 60 billion. lv. More than 13 000 jobs in the private sector are created every year in Bulgaria. Investments in Bulgaria have grown steadily in recent years. We're talking growth in recent years in the order of 4%. And here we have to ask ourselves: is this size enough for us? Is the growth of the incomes of Bulgarian citizens sufficient? It is here that I will continue to reflect on the importance of construction and speeding up these processes in the construction of infrastructure sites. Wage income growth by 9.9% and pensions by 13.6% this points to the report of the National Statistical Institute in the last quarter of 2018 with a continuing trend in 2019. Part of the wage growth comes really from the regulatory increase in the insurance threshold from the beginning of the year, others because of greater labour competition. As I mentioned, the unemployment rate in Bulgaria is already around 5%. There is also the continuing increase in public sector wages, and since the beginning of the year the teachers' salaries have been increased, and the incomes of the administration. While we were talking about a minimum wage in 2009 of 240 BGN, in 2019 we can say that the minimum wage is already 560 BGN. with a clear request from the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs. In 2020 it will be BGN 610. While in 2009 the average salary was BGN 575, the average gross wage in the country continued to grow and in the first quarter of 2019 reached BGN 1208. This is an increase of 12% on an annual basis, according to national statistics. There is an increase in the average remuneration in the public sector as well as in the private sector. In March alone, the average gross wage reached BGN 1247. Does that make us feel better? No, he's ambitious. Does that satisfy us? At the rate of economic growth, as I said, we are among the leaders in the European Union, but we have a lot to catch up on. It is the catching-up that can happen through new investments of Bulgarian enterprises and foreign ones in the Bulgarian economy. The creation of more added value of the Bulgarian economy is extremely linked to the growth of the incomes of the Bulgarian population, and hence social payments to Bulgarian pensioners and citizens who cannot take care of themselves. Economic growth, as I said in recent years, may seem high against the backdrop of the average for the countries of the European Union, but we are still far from the desired levels and we are looking at serious catching-up so that we can talk about salaries and incomes of Bulgarian citizens worthy of such as the levels of the European Union. Only with an earlier growth in the economy would it be possible and more tangible growth of the incomes and well-being of Bulgarian citizens, leading to a reduction of social inequality between Bulgarian citizens and Europeans. In the Management Program of GERB and the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) for the period 2017 until the end of the term of office, it is written: The State creates rules and forms the business environment. It is obliged to create good rules and monitor their compliance, maintain a good business environment so that entrepreneurs feel secure and motivated to develop their business and make new investments. The state's efforts will be aimed at maintaining the existing economy and attracting new investments. With only new investments carried out by Bulgarian enterprises and investors, as well as foreign investors, new jobs will be opened and incomes will be increased. I will not draw statistics on the built kilometres, highways and part of a Republican road network because it is tangible and visible. But it cannot remain hidden and the division of Northern and Southern Bulgaria in purely economic development, where the gross domestic product is divided almost 35 to 65% in favour of South Bulgaria, which is characterized, colleagues, with the completed highways Therefore, the government's efforts have been made in the next four to five years to build and complete the highway of Hemus, on which 130 km were built over the past 30 years, such as the request and resource provided by the Bulgarian government, is available and by 2024 there is an optimistic and realistic option to complete and connect our capital with Varna, i.e. to build another 250 km for the next five years. It was in this that the legal changes related to the State Property Act adopted, to which the President vetoed. I am convinced that we must adopt the State Property Act with the proposed changes that we had voted before the elections to the European Parliament so that we can really speed up the process of growth of gross domestic product, revenue in the country, and naturally, the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. I can directly say that I am really interested in the construction of the South Rainbow in Sofia. The southern arc of the Crossroads is realistic to start building by the end of 2019 if really by the adopted changes in the Law on State Property the alienation procedures are implemented, and it is important here to point out the interest of the owners who are alienated from the territory for the construction of this important infrastructure site. They will be compensated and guaranteed in a fair trial. Naturally, the amounts they will receive as compensation will be guaranteed by the state budget. It is here that I cannot support the President in part of his motives, where he says that practice can be created or not to ensure fair compensation of market and all the principles of lost benefits for people whose properties are subject to alienation, namely for the construction of these infrastructure sites of national importance. Colleagues, I therefore call on you once again to adopt the amendments to the Law on State Property and to reject the veto of the President for the acceleration of the incomes of Bulgarian citizens, for the growth of the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. You have the floor. Here you are, dear Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, before I begin my speech and focus on the reasons of the President and his administration for reviewing the State Property Act, which was adopted two weeks ago, I would like to point out that, even when writing the Bill, and given the reasons that the Presidential Administration has put forward, we have dealt with extremely responsibly and have never intended to put the national, public interest, although we are walking in this plane extremely, but we have never intended this to be at the expense of private interest, of private property, of what the Constitution and our predecessors have placed as integrity. We also consider, of course, the necessary dose of seriousness and the reasons presented by the Presidential Administration in the face of Professor Drumeva yesterday in the Legal Commission. I believe that we have given serious arguments contrary to their claim concerning three important points of the Bill which have been considered to be discussed again. To be honest, I regret that BSP colleagues as the first opposition force in this Parliament do not attend such a significant debate. For the second time, we will have to look at this bill in the hall literally without people to oppose the bill, and it would be useful. Now I will focus, of course, on the three points that were presented yesterday by my colleagues at the Presidency, so that the texts should almost be revised. Firstly, what has been put forward as an argument, I quote: a decrease in the intensity in the protection of private property. I believe that we have always been guided by the principle that private property should be absolutely inviolable and that there is no way that the owner of private property, although when it comes to such objects of national importance, should be at his expense. In this regard, we have also complied with Constitutional Decision No 6 of 2013. In fact, I am impressed that the Presidential Administration is not attacking exactly this decision, on the basis of which the Law was brought down a few years ago. We have tried to respond fully to the observations of the Constitutional Court and the fact that the Presidency does not contest it also speaks of the fact that we have done our job well before the Law is dealt with in the National Assembly. The procedures under which the investor should be introduced in advance, respectively the State, into a private property before the act of alienation enters into force are clearly described. From the moment this is requested by the investor, three very important conditions must be met without which the court cannot give prior entry into the property in order to start or issue a construction permit. We are only talking about objects of national importance. The first fact is that there must be a detailed plan in force. The second is not to be the owner's only place. The third, just as essential and always the most serious interest in the years, is in advance, as the Constitution has written, compensation to private owners. To this end, we have provided for a very clear mechanism in which the investor, respectively the State, after an assessment of the basis of expert valuers, pays in advance the amount of the person concerned's account before the investor asks the court to execute the estrangement act. We have also provided for another third, which was one of the reasons of the President's administration, for how this one third is defined as an additional guarantee, which is transferred to the governor's account, in case the court subsequently gives a higher assessment and the possibility that the private owner can realize and absorb that one third above, on what the State has foreseen for the estrangement of its property. Why a third? Colleagues, the practice has shown that so far a huge percentage, not to say almost always, the assessment made by the investor and ready to offer as compensation to the private owner, coincides with the assessment by the experts the court appoints for the same property. It makes sense to do so, as expert assessments are made in an absolutely identical way, in certain formulas that you understand yourself that very difficult could vary much. I would say that this one third, which we have provided for more through the Law, is still costing the investment process and the State as an investor will have to set aside another third as an amount that it cannot actually benefit from until the estrangement act enters into force, when the court has already fully completed this procedure with estranged procedures, so we can talk about overprotective private property. Contrary to the arguments why not a second, a quarter or, if you want, a hundred percent, the answer is very simple: it is still a kind of guarantee that is not certain, first, whether it will be realized and used. Secondly, we have no way of knowing the investor from the moment of entering the property in advance how long the act of alienation will be in force................................ can be one, two, three, five months, can be more....................................................... Therefore, this period may be too long and, in fact, this one third may not be enough to compensate the owners for the missed benefits. For example, if you have agricultural land, a forest fund, some production building, the state has entered your property and started building, in these months you may have missed benefits not for one This one third may not be enough, but here it is very important to say that the state is responsible and guarantees it with its budget. Consequently, if this one third is not sufficient, the State may compensate you with an additional amount. The idea is to have an absolute equivalent to the commitment and to your limited right. Yes, it is true that under the Constitution this is also permissible by law, but in the end the state has to pay for it by property, whether by money compensation the property owners. The President's second argument was related to why it is hardly possible or that the Council of Ministers would allow itself to exceed its powers, as there is a discrepancy in the Law on the Construction of the Territory, where it is regulated and has a concept of a national object, whereas in the Law on State Property there is an object which is really defined very precisely. Such objects of national importance can be declared either by law or through the Council of Ministers and described precisely specific projects. This is not just about highways, because the topic is usually the most up-to-date, it is about pipelines, airports, ports, gas, electricity supply and so on. It is true that only the possibility to announce objects of national importance by the Council of Ministers and by law is fixed in the Law on Construction in the territory, but it does not describe what exactly covers this thing. Colleagues, the practice shows that we must be calm here too, we cannot agree with the arguments of the Presidency, that there may be one or two cases where the Council of Ministers has declared by its own act an object of national importance within the meaning of the Law on the Construction of the Territory which does not comply with these criteria in the State Property Act. The practice shows that whenever the Council of Ministers issues such an act, it also announces it as a national object within the meaning of the State Property Act and as an object of national importance within the meaning of the Law on Construction in the Area, as it serves different laws and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is as a holder of the rights to carry out the entire investment process until the finalization of such a project. That is why it is also declared within the meaning of the Law on Structure of the Territory. The second argument against the President's motives is that almost yesterday the Council of Ministers of the Legal Commission was asked the question may exceed these rights. I have given arguments why.. and practice shows that this has not happened until now. But here it is important to note that the Council of Ministers is ultimately a body which is elected through the direct will of the National Assembly, respectively the direct will of the voters. He bears his very, very serious responsibility, all the more so that he has delegated the important task of developing the economy, the welfare of society. There is no assumption that we can hardly blame the Council of Ministers for allowing it to start announcing various objects of national importance just to satisfy its need to speed up the process. Let me say, and to implement its programme, on the contrary, has always been sufficiently responsible and has had this opportunity. But, as I said just now, he took the liberty of quoting even the case once or twice to come out of this framework, which the State Property Act has set for him. In the end, we must approach with confidence one such collective body, which undoubtedly has the task of developing the infrastructure, the economy, the well-being of the whole society and this is regulated in the Constitution, if you will, in the National Security Strategy. The third argument that we cannot agree with is the fact that we have foreseen in the Bill a owner, which, for example, has more than 50 decares of a linear object, where it is necessary to alienate small pieces of property................................................................................. The logic of the legislator and what we thought while writing the Law was that in the end, one such owner was a legal person or a natural person, given that there is a total of very large properties as a whole, for the state is perhaps easier. Once again, this is an opportunity, and it is not the duty of the State, if there is such property in the respective land, the owner will be compensated by such a replacement, so that he can continue to use the land for the purpose of developing a different activity of agriculture or something like that, and a kind of state to redeem these properties, to compensate the land. That's the logic, too. Yes, it is true that the State Property Act prohibits the State, the investor from alienating properties, but it is about undersized properties that are under three acres for levels, two for meadows and one for pastures, but this is logic... [[GERB's line.]] To extend the group's time, I was reminded. ...and the law, of course, does not give this opportunity, but provides only monetary compensation. It is really logical and so, since it is very small fragments of 200 squares per square mile, it is not appropriate for the state to look for a similar one in practice. Imagine, for example, 100 or 200 squares looking for them somewhere in the land and providing them to the owners! In fact, this square is so insignificant that it makes no sense to the owner himself, there's nothing to do with it. However, when it comes to one owner, either a natural or legal person, who has a collection of such a large estate, it would be appropriate if the State could find such a property, compensate it, so that it could indeed be comatose, be used with another appropriateness. Of course, there may be more arguments, but this is generally the case in relation to the three points that were put in the Committee on Legal Affairs yesterday. I'm most responsible again. I'm sorry we don't have... if you don't want an opposition. We were ready for this serious debate because the subject is really very, very important. We have taken an extremely responsible approach with the clear aim, however, to maintain the balance between the public interest and the private interest, taking full account of the 2003 Constitutional Court Decision. "No 6 and with our understanding of where the balance would be, so that there is no feeling that the private interest is somehow placed under the public interest. On the contrary, I even believe that the mechanisms that we have signed in the State Property Act guarantee 100%, and even above, that there is no way that this will happen and the private interest as well as the Constitution is noted in art. 17, must be inviolable and each such exchange must be extremely equivalent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Replies to Mr. Nenkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the re-acceptance of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act. We believe that the Law adopted on 15 May fully complies with the objectives of the Bill, namely support for investment interest, as well as protection of state and national interest, without prejudice to and without entering into the privacy of private property. We do not share the concerns of the team of the President of the Republic that this law violates the balance between state and private property. On the contrary, we believe that the measure is good, will improve and speed up the implementation of important investment projects for the country. But, colleagues, we at the DPS believe that this is not enough as a measure. On the contrary, we think that with this bill there should have been a package of several more amendments to the Law on Municipal Property and the Law on Construction of the Area, because, by arranging the objects of national importance, we miss those of municipal importance, as well as the support of small investment projects, which unwarrantedly with complaints to the courts slow down investment of a smaller size. In other words, changes must be made to the Law on Municipal Property in the same direction and changes to another law, colleagues. Somehow, we're holding back complaints that block investment from what's called a green octopus. This octopus, colleagues, with complaints, of course, then prove unfounded, block every investment in the country.. large, medium or small. For years, investors have been waiting for the courts to rule on the so-called eco-values and investments for millions, for hundreds of millions of levs, standing and waiting. This is not the way to block these investments, for our country to move forward. I suggest that de lege ferenda fellow Members think about it in this direction, so we will support the adoption of the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Any lines to Mr. Hamid's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act adopted by the National Assembly on 15 May 2019. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act has been re-approved. Colleagues, the Law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. We are passing the second item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION, ENFORCEMENT AND RECOGNITION OF JUDGE DECISIONS TO PROVIDE DISCLOSURE FROM FREENESS OR MEASURES EXCLUSING DISCLOSION OF FREENESS. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. He was adopted in the first vote on 4 April 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Before the report I request a procedure for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Evgeni Stoyanov on the basis of art. 49, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u17	Please vote on the procedure so made. [[Noise and excitement.]] Colleagues, please take your seats. The movement in the hall is disturbing the work. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I present to your attention a report on a bill of recognition, enforcement and delivery of judicial acts for the imposition of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019, adopted at the first vote on 4 April 2019. "Action for recognition, enforcement and enforcement of judicial acts for the imposition of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u20	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u21	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One, which the Commission supports. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u22	Article 1 "Present of the law" "Art.1" text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: "The Legacy of the Law" Art. 1. This law lays down the terms and conditions for the recognition and enforcement of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment in another Member State, as well as for the dispatch of such acts given in the Republic of Bulgaria, for the recognition and enforcement in another Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u24	"Administrative field" "Art. 2, text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: "Administrative Field" Art. 2. (1) This law shall apply in cases where the convicted person to whom the punishment or measure under art. 1 shall be located in the territory of a Member State. (2) The judicial act may also be sent where, in addition to the punishment or measure involving imprisonment, a fine and/or confiscation has been imposed which has not yet been collected or executed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u25	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 2 on the Commission report. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u26	"Instructions" and "Instructions" and "Instructions" shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: "Conservation" Art. 3. The court acts or certified copies thereof shall be accompanied by a certificate in accordance with Annex No 1 issued by a competent authority of the Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u27	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 3 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u28	? Languages????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u29	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 4 supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u30	"Coherence and exchange of information' "Article 5', text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. ? Information exchange Art. 5. (1) The Court shall exchange information directly with the competent authorities of the other Member States under that law. (2) By 31 December each year, the courts shall send to the Ministry of Justice information on systematic difficulties or omission by another Member State concerning the recognition and enforcement of requests for recognition of judicial acts ordering imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u31	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 5 on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u32	"Distribution"............................................................................................. 6 text The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: "Distribution" Art. 6. (1) Where the Republic of Bulgaria is an executing State, the costs relating to the recognition and enforcement of the judicial acts shall be borne by the Bulgarian State, with the exception of the costs of the transfer of the convicted person to be borne by the issuing State. (2) Where the Republic of Bulgaria is issuing a State, the costs of issuing and sending the judicial acts, as well as those relating to the transfer of the convicted person and all other expenses incurred exclusively on its territory, shall be borne by the Bulgarian State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u33	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 6 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u34	? Chapter 2? Recognition and enforcement of judicial acts issued in another Member State?? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u35	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, supported by the Commission. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u36	"Competitor authority" "Art. 7, text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. "Competitor Authority" Art. 7. (1) A competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria to recognise judicial acts imposing a prison sentence or measures involving imprisonment in another Member State shall be the district court of the place of residence of the convicted person. (2) Where the residence of the person in the Republic of Bulgaria is unknown or does not live in the country competent to recognise the act is the Sofia City Court. (3) Where the judgment has been sent to an authority which is not competent to recognise it, it shall send it to the court in office. In that case, the competent court shall inform the competent authority in the issuing State of receipt of the act. (4) The court may, either on its own initiative or at the request of the convicted person, request the competent authority of the issuing State to send the decision together with the certificate referred to in Article 1. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u37	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 7 on the Commission report. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u38	Terms of recognition and enforcement 8 text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. "Conditions of recognition and enforcement" Art. 8. (1) The judicial acts given in another Member State shall be recognised and enforced in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where they relate to acts which constitute crimes and to the Bulgarian legislation, where, regardless of the differences between their compositions, their essential signs coincide. (2) Double Punishment under para. 1 shall not be required for the following offences where, in the issuing State, they are punishable by imprisonment for a maximum period of not less than three years or are provided for a measure involving imprisonment for a maximum period of not less than three years: 1. participation in an organized criminal group; 2. terrorism; 3. human trafficking; 4. sexual exploitation of children and child pornography; 5. illicit trafficking of narcotics and psychotropic substances; 6. illicit trafficking of weapons, ammunition and explosives; 7. corruption; 8. fraud, including fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union within the meaning of the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the European Communities of 26 July 1995; 9. laundering of property acquired from a crime; 10. spice of monetary signs, including euros; 11. computer crime and computer crime; 12. environmental crimes, including illegal trafficking of endangered animal species and endangered plant species and varieties; 13. support illegal entry and residence in the country; 14. murder, severe bodily harm; 15. illegal trade in human organs and tissues; 16. abduction, unlawful imprisonment and detention of hostages; 17. racism and xenophobia; 18. organised or armed robbery; 19. illicit trafficking of cultural objects, including antique objects and works of art; 20. fraud; 21. racketeering and extortion; 22. spice of products and piracy; 23. spice of administrative documents and trade with them; 24. spice of payment instruments; 25. illicit trafficking of hormonal substances and other growth stimulators; 26. illicit trafficking of nuclear or radioactive materials; 27. traffic of illegally withdrawn vehicles; 28. rape; 29. arson; 30. crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court; 31. illegal hijacking of aircraft or ships; 32. Sabotage.........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u39	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 8 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u40	"Conservation............................................................................................... 9 text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. "Conservation" Art. 9. (1) Before the sending of the court order and of the certificate referred to in art. 3 The competent authority of the issuing State and the court of art. 7 may hold consultations. (2) The holding of a consultation shall be mandatory where the Republic of Bulgaria is a State within the meaning of art. 21, para. 2, p. 3 and the court shall immediately inform the competent authority of the issuing State whether it accepts the submission of the judgment. (3) In the course of the consultations, the court may present a reasoned opinion on the inability to improve the re-socialization of the convicted person in the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) Where no consultation has been held, the court may present the reasoned opinion immediately after the judgment has been sent and the certificate referred to in art. 3 by the competent authority of the issuing State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u41	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 9 on the Commission report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u42	"Acts of the court before the recognition of the court order"............................................................................................. 10, text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: The Court's actions prior to the recognition of the court's decision Art. 10. (1) Upon receipt of the court order and of the certificate referred to in art. 3 from the competent authority of the issuing State, the court shall in a professional capacity request criminal record for the convicted person and a reference for the pending criminal proceedings against him. (2) At the request of the court, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall verify whether the convicted person is present in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State. (3) If necessary, the court shall consult the competent authority of the issuing State in order to establish the nature of the family, language, cultural, social, economic or other relations of the convicted person in the Republic of Bulgaria with a view to improving the opportunities for his resocialization.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u43	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 10 on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u44	"Tracking time" "Tracking time" and "Tracking time" and "Tracking time" and "Tracking time" and "Tracking time" and "Tracking time" and "Tracking The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Time-consuming Art. 11. (1) Where the convicted person is situated in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, at the request of the issuing State, the court may, before receiving the court order and certificate under art. 3 or before deciding on the recognition and enforcement to give detention to the convicted person or to impose another appropriate measure under the Code of Criminal Procedure to ensure that the convicted person remains in the territory of the country until a decision is taken on the recognition of the act and the execution of the penalty or measure under art. 1. (2) The definition by which the measure under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal and protest by the order of the Code of Criminal Procedure. (3) No extension of the period of punishment or measure under art. 1 as a result of detention in the cases under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u45	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 11 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u46	"Development of recognition and The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: ? Production of recognition and appeal Art. 12. (1) Upon receipt of the court order together with the certificate referred to in art. 3 the courts shall immediately initiate a procedure for recognition and shall, within 14 days, schedule an open hearing for the hearing. (2) Where the court order is not accompanied by the certificate referred to in art. 3, the court may set an appropriate time limit for its receipt. (3) The court shall examine the case singlely with the mandatory participation of a prosecutor in the summoning of the convicted person. (4) If the person does not have a defender, the court shall appoint him one, as well as a translator, if the person does not speak the Bulgarian language. (5) At the hearing the court shall hear the prosecutor, the person and his defender. (6) The absence of the person, when regularly summoned, shall not prevent the hearing of the case. (7) The Court shall consider whether the conditions for: 1. recognition and execution under art. 8; 2. Postpone recognition under art. 14; 3. refusal of recognition and enforcement under art. 15; 4. partial recognition and execution under art. 16. (8) The Court of Justice shall give the decision without delay, indicating the number and date of the sentence adopted, the case in which it was ordered, the relevant provisions of the Penal Code providing for liability for the offence committed, the period of the sentence imposed by the court of the issuing State or a measure involving imprisonment and the initial regime for the execution of the penalty. (9) The Court shall fully deduct the duration of the part of the sentence and the temporary detention from the total period of the sentence imposed in prison. (10) The decision of the court under para. 8 shall be subject to appeal or protest before the Court of Appeal concerned within 14 days of its announcement. (11) The appeal and the protest shall be dealt with within 5 days of their entry into the court of appeal under para. 7. The Court of Justice shall declare its decision in open court with the participation of the parties. The decision of the court shall be given no later than 90 days after receipt of the judgment, together with the certificate referred to in art. Three and it's final. (12) The Court of Justice referred to in art. 7 inform the competent authority of the issuing State of the entry into force of the decision, including the reasons for refusal or adjustment of the penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u47	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u48	"Accomplishment of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u49	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 13, supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u50	The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in the Member State in which the Court of Justice has jurisdiction in the Member State in which the Court of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u51	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 14 which the Commission supports. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u52	"Acceptances for refusal of recognition and enforcement " art. 15 text of the importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: "Acceptances for refusal of recognition and enforcement Art. 15. (1) The Court may refuse to recognise and execute the judgment where: 1. no certificate under art. 1 has been granted. 3, it is incomplete or there is a clear discrepancy between it and the judgment and has not been supplemented or corrected within the time limit set by the court; 2. the person is not in Bulgarian territory or in the territory of the issuing State, has not consented when required, and the Republic of Bulgaria is not: (a) the State whose national is the person and in which he is resident; (b) the State whose national is the person to whom it will be deported, even though it is not resident, after being released from execution of the penalty on the basis of an order for expulsion or deportation contained in a judicial or administrative act or of another measure imposed as a result of the sentencing; (c) a State other than those referred to in points (a) and (b) whose competent authority has given consent to the court order and the certificate referred to in art. 3 that they be sent to him; 3. recognition would be contrary to the principle of.............................................................................................. 4. the court order has been ordered in connection with an act which does not constitute a crime under the Bulgarian legislation, except in the cases under art. 8, para. 2; the execution of a judicial act in respect of taxes, fees, duties or exchange of currency cannot be refused on the grounds that the Bulgarian legislation does not provide for the same type of taxes and charges or does not regulate in the same way taxes, fees, duties or exchange of currency as the legislation of the issuing State; 5. the execution of the penalty prescribed by the judicial act is paid out by limitation under the Bulgarian legislation; 6. the convicted person enjoys immunity under the Bulgarian legislation; 7. the court order has been ordered against a person who, due to his age under the Bulgarian legislation, cannot be criminally responsible for the acts in respect of which the act has been ordered; 8. at the time of receipt of the court order, the court shall remain less than 6 months from the penalty imposed; 9. the court order has been ordered in a trial to which the convicted person has not appeared in person, unless the certificate under art. 3 explicitly does not contain any information to comply with one of the following conditions: (a) the person has been summoned in person and has thus been promptly informed of the date and place of the trial or has been formally informed otherwise, indisputably proving the notification of the scheduled trial and of the possibility of giving a decision if it does not appear; (b) after having been informed of the scheduled trial in due time, the person has authorised a defender or was appointed to him by the court for defence during the case and such protection has indeed been given; (c) after the decision has been served in person and the person has been expressly informed of the right to appeal or of a new examination of the case with his or her own participation, in which the case may be reviewed in substance with the submission of new evidence and the possibility of revocation of the original act, it has expressly stated that it does not contest the decision or has not requested a new hearing or appeal within the prescribed time limit; 10. The issuing State has not consented under Article 10. 28, para. 1, t. 7 for prosecution, punishment or imprisonment of the convicted person in the Republic of Bulgaria for another act committed before his surrender; 11. the punishment imposed includes forced medical measures or measures involving imprisonment, which regardless of art. 13, para. 2 cannot be implemented by the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation; 12. the judicial act refers to a crime which, under Bulgarian law, is considered to have been committed in whole or in part in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including on the ground aligned on its territory. (2) The decision under para. 1, t. 12 shall be taken by the court in exceptional circumstances and in the light of each individual case, taking into account the special circumstances and in particular whether the act took place primarily in the issuing State. (3) Before refusing to recognise the court order on the basis of para. 1, t. 1 s 3 et c. The court shall consult the competent authority of the issuing State and request, if necessary, the immediate provision of additional information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u53	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 15 on the Commission report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u54	Thank you, Madam President. ..................................................................................................... 16. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: supplier recognition and enforcement Art. 16. (1) Despite the existence of grounds for refusal under art. 15, the court may, after consulting the competent authority of the issuing State, partially recognise the judicial act and the recognised part is subject to enforcement. Partial recognition and enforcement cannot lead to an extension of the duration of the penalty. (2) When no agreement has been reached under para. 1 after withdrawal of the certificate under art. 3 by the competent authority of the issuing State, the court shall terminate the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u55	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 16 on the Commission report. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u56	Terms and conditions of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17, as in para. 1 after the word the certificate shall be added by art. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u57	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 17, which the Commission supports, with the corresponding version in para. 1 After the word the certificate shall be added by art. 3.................................................................................. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u58	"Execution of the The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: "Execution of the Punishment" Art. 18. (1) After recognition of the judicial act, the court shall immediately send a certified copy of the decision of the respective prosecution to take the necessary actions to execute the punishment under the order of the Bulgarian legislation or to implement the transfer under art. 26. The Court of Justice shall send a certified copy of the decision on recognition and enforcement of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice. (2) After consulting the issuing authority, the court shall respect and deduct from the period of imprisonment the working days laid down in the territory of the issuing State only if such deduction is provided for in the legislation of the issuing State and is not indicated in the certificate under art. 3. (3) At the request of the competent authority of the issuing State, the court shall provide information on the applicable legal provisions on early release. (4) At the request of the competent court, the prosecutor of the relevant prosecution shall provide him with information in a timely manner concerning: 1. the inability to execute the punishment because the location of the person in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria cannot be established; 2. the beginning and end of the early release, where specified in the certificate; 3. escape of the person during the execution of the punishment; 4. Final Punishment. (5) After receiving the information under para. 4, the court shall immediately inform the competent authority of the issuing State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 18. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u60	"Recruitment of the implementation" "Art. 19. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Abort execution Art. 19. (1) The Court shall immediately cease the execution of the punishment or measure under art. 1: 1. when notified by the competent authority of the issuing State of a judgment or of another act under which the punishment or measure under art. 1 shall not be enforceable; 2. upon withdrawal of the certificate under art. 3 from the issuing country. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the court shall give a single ruling at a hearing with the participation of a prosecutor and with the call of the convicted person. The definition is final. (3) The execution of the punishment shall also be terminated upon the granting of amnesty according to the order of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 and 3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or parole in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 19. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u62	"Chapter 3 "Send of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment for recognition of enforcement in another Member State. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter Three be amended as follows: "Chapter 3 "Search of judgments for recognition and enforcement in another Member State."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u63	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal on the name of Chapter Three. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u64	"Competitor authority" "Art. 20. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: "Competitor Authority" Art. 20. (1) Judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment shall be sent by the court which has decreed them as the first instance of the competent authority of the executing State. (2) The original of the judicial acts or their certified copies, as well as the original of the certificate under art. 3 shall be sent to the competent authority of the executing State where expressly requested by the executing State. (3) The judicial act and the certificate may not be sent for recognition and enforcement of more than one Member State at the same time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u65	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 20. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u66	"Procedures for Sending" "Art. 21. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: "Send-off Terms and Conditions" Art. 21. (1) The court may send the judgment provided that the convicted person is situated in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or in the territory of the executing State and has given his consent where required under the conditions of art. 22. (2) The judicial act together with the certificate referred to in art. 3 may be sent to one of the following Member States: 1. the country whose national is the person and in which it is resident; 2. the State in whose nationality the person is and in which he will be deported, although he is not resident, after being released from execution of the sentence on the basis of an order for expulsion or deportation contained in a judicial or administrative act or of another measure imposed as a result of the sentencing; 3. a country other than those referred to in point 3. 1 et c. 2 whose the competent authority has given consent to the court order and the certificate referred to in art. 3 to be sent to him. (3) Before sending the court order and certificate under art. 3 the court may consult the competent authority of the executing State to ensure that the execution of the punishment in that State improves the opportunities for re-socialisation of the person. (4) The consultation shall be mandatory in the cases under para. 2, p. 3. (5) Where no consultation has been held, the court shall take into account the reasoned opinion sent to the competent authority of the executing State and decide whether to withdraw the certificate. (6) In the cases under para. 2, p. 3 Courts shall take a decision after assessment of the possibilities for re-socialisation of the person and of development of skills and abilities for a legal way of Life in society.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u67	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 21. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u68	"Accordance and The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: "Accordance and opinion" Art. 22. (1) The Court shall forward the judgment together with the certificate referred to in Article 1. 3 to the competent authority of the executing State accompanied by the written consent of the convicted person. (2) The consent of the convicted person shall not be required where the judgment shall be forwarded to the Member State: 1. whose citizen is the person and in which he is resident; 2. in which the person will be deported after being released from execution of the penalty on the basis of an order for expulsion or deportation contained in the sentence or in an act of a judicial or administrative authority or of another measure imposed as a result of the sentence; 3. in which the person has escaped or has returned due to the existence of pending criminal proceedings or has entered into an effective sentence against him in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) In the cases under para. 2 when the person is present in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the court in open session shall give him the opportunity to express his views in writing or orally. Taking into account the age, physical or mental condition of the person, the court may, at its discretion, grant this opportunity to its legal representative. Where the person makes his observations orally, the court shall send the executing State a written record of the opinion. (4) The Court shall explain to the person his right to consent to a transfer to the executing State and the consequences of the exercise of that right. (5) The opinion under para. 3 shall be taken into account when deciding whether to send the court order together with the certificate of art. 3. (6) The Court shall inform the person in a language understood by him of the sending of the decision together with the certificate referred to in art. 3 using the notification form pursuant to Annex No 2. The form shall be transmitted to the competent authority of the executing State in order to notify the person where it is located in its territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u69	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 22. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u70	"Send of the court order" "Send of the court order" "Send of the court order" "Send of the court order" "Send The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: sent of the court order Art. 23. (1) The court may, at the request of the prosecutor or of the convicted person, send the court order or certified copy thereof together with the certificate referred to in art. 3 directly to the competent authority of the executing State. The act may also be sent at the request of the executing State. (2) The judgment shall be forwarded to the competent authority of the executing State by mail, e-mail, fax, or otherwise, allowing written record and authentication of authenticity. (3) Where the court does not have information on the competent authority in the executing State, it shall issue Inquiry including through European contact points It's a court network. (4) The Court shall deal with the case within 14 days in open court. a court hearing with the participation of a prosecutor. (5) If the person is in a place of imprisonment under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Bulgaria or has a known address in the country, or has made a request under para. 1 in which it has indicated an address for calling, the same shall be called for the hearing, giving it the opportunity under art. 22, para. 3 and, if necessary, a translator shall be appointed to it. (6) The Court shall rule by order which shall be declared at the hearing. (7) When the person making the request is located outside the Republic of Bulgaria, the court shall send him the definition of the address for summoning. (8) The definition under para. 6 shall be subject to appeal or protest before the relevant appeal court within 5 days of the announcement or notification under para. 7. The Court shall examine the appeal or protest in open session with the participation of the parties. The decision of the appeal court shall be given within 7 days and shall be final. (9) The certificate referred to in art. 3 shall be signed by the President of the Chamber of the Court under art. 20, and his faithfulness shall be certified by the seal of the court. (10) Certified copy of the entry into force definition under para. 6 shall be sent to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and to the The Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 23. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u72	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: ? Withdrawal of the certificate Art. 25. (1) The Court shall withdraw the certificate under art. 3 where after consultation with the competent authority of the executing State no agreement has been reached under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 for partial recognition and execution of the penalty, and terminates proceedings. (2) The Court may withdraw the certificate: 1. prior to the initiation of the execution of the sentence in the executing State, indicating the reasons therefor; 2. after taking into account the reasoned opinion on art. 21, para. 5; 3. where it considers that the applicable provisions for early or conditional release in the executing State are incompatible with the relevant provisions of the Bulgarian legislation in force; in such cases, the court shall require the competent authority of the executing State to provide information on those provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u73	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. First is the text of the importer for art. 24, supported by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 25. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u74	The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 4 be amended as follows: "Chapter 4" Transfer of convicted persons between Member States. Transit. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: "Transfer of convicted persons" Art. 26. (1) If the convicted person is located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, his surrender to the executing State shall take place on a date agreed between the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the competent authority of the executing State, through the Directorate of International Operational Cooperation and the Ministry of Interior, but no later than 30 days after the executing State has taken a final decision on the recognition and enforcement of the punishment or measure under art. 1. (2) The transmission of the person shall be carried out in the execution of a decree of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the authorities of the Ministry of Justice shall ensure his security and convoy. (3) In cases where the transfer of the person within the framework of the person referred to in para. 1 period is prevented by unforeseen circumstances, the competent authorities of the two countries shall immediately contact each other. The transmission shall take place immediately after such circumstances have been dropped. The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office shall, through the Directorate of International Operational Cooperation, immediately inform the Ministry of Interior of the competent authority of the executing State and the two authorities shall agree on a new date for the transmission to take place. In this case, the transmission shall take place within 10 days of the date of the negotiation. (4) Allinei 1 " 3" shall apply accordingly also in cases where the Republic of Bulgaria is a executing State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u75	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I will put to the vote the name proposed by the Commission for Chapter 4 and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 26. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u76	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: "Execution of the punishment or measure after the transfer of the convicted person Art. 27. (1) The competent Bulgarian authorities shall not take measures for the execution of the punishment or measure under art. 1 when its implementation has already begun in the executing State. (2) The competent Bulgarian authorities shall restore their right to execute the punishment or measure under art. 1, if the executing State in the cases referred to in Article 1. 18, para. 4 t. 3 inform the relevant Bulgarian court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u77	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 27. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u78	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: "Princess of the Feature" Art. 28. (1) A person handed over to the Republic of Bulgaria in accordance with this law shall not be prosecuted, prosecuted or detained for a crime committed prior to his transfer, other than for which he has been handed over, unless: 1. there has been an opportunity to leave the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and has not done it within 45 days of its final release or has returned again after it has left it; 2. the act does not provide for a prison sentence or a measure involving imprisonment; 3. criminal proceedings shall not lead to the application of a measure relating to the limitation of personal freedom; 4. a fine or an alternative penalty may be imposed on the person not associated with imprisonment, even if such penalties may result in a limitation of his or her personal liberty; 5. the person has consented to be surrendered; 6. after the transfer the person voluntarily declares to the competent court under art. 7 that he renounces his right under this provision and is aware of the consequences thereof; in this case the person is entitled to defender; 7. The issuing State has agreed not to apply the principle of peculiarity in cases other than those under point 7. The request for consent shall be filed with a translation in Bulgarian of the information referred to in Article 1. 37 of the Law on Extradition and the European Arrest Warrant and the guarantees provided for under art. 41 of the same law. (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply in cases where the Republic of Bulgaria is an issuing State. The request shall be submitted to the relevant court which ordered the transfer of the person. The Court of Justice shall give consent subject to the provisions of art. Art. 36, Art. 41 of the Extradition Act and the European Arrest Warrant. The decision shall be given no later than 30 days after receipt of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u79	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 28. Vote 76 MPs: 75 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u81	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 29. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u82	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: "Transit" Art. 30. (1) The Minister of Justice or an official authorised by him shall accept the requests for transit and the accompanying documents in a manner which shall certify their transmission in writing and shall immediately send them to the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. (2) The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor shall authorise by decree the transit through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a convicted person to be transferred to the executing State, provided that the following information is provided: 1. request for transit; 2. a copy of the certificate under art. 3; 3. details of the convicted person; 4. approved plan for handing over the convicted person; 5. Translation of documents in Bulgarian. (3) The Supreme Court of Cassation shall rule by a decree on the application without delay, but no later than 7 days from the day of its receipt. The order shall determine the time and place of detention of the convicted person. The production may be postponed until the translation has been received by the Member State which has made the request for transit where such translation is required under para. 2. (4) The Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office shall inform the Member State requesting the transit and the Ministry of Justice of its decision in a manner which may certify its transmission in writing. (5) A convicted person admitted to transit through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not be detained on another basis and for a period longer than necessary for the purposes of transit through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the event that the person should be detained in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on grounds other than the request for transit, the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor shall immediately inform the Member State making the request for transit. (6) No request for transit shall be required in the case of air transport without an intended stay. In the event of an emergency landing, the transfer State shall provide to the Ministry of Justice the State referred to in para. 2 information within 72 hours. (7) Alinei 1 "6" shall apply respectively in cases where the Republic of Bulgaria is a issuing State and there has been a need for transit through the territory of another Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u83	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 30. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, the winner of the initiative will be awarded at the Club of the People's Representative's Club the unforgettable "Focus" and the Ministry of Education for the promotion of Bulgarian literary masterpieces. All MPs are invited to attend the awards and support this patriotic initiative. I'm calling off the job in 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u84	We're starting work, fellow Members. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, please come to the stands. I am convinced that when the MPs see you in the stands, they will enter the Chamber, and perhaps the Quaestors will help a little. We continue with the additional provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u85	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u86	Statements? There are no speeches. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber before I vote on the Additional Provisions. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u87	Paragraph 1 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in any final act of a court which imposes a penalty on a natural person. 2. Punishment is any punishment for imprisonment or a measure involving imprisonment for a specified or indefinite period of time in connection with a criminal offence and following criminal proceedings. 3. The issuing Member State shall be the Member State in which the judgment was given. 4. The executing State shall be the Member State to which the judicial act has been sent for the purpose of its recognition and enforcement. 5. The State of residence of the person is the State with which the person has a lasting factual relationship with regard to the existing family, social or economic relations there. 6. "Member State" is a Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u88	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 2, 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u90	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. We only vote § 2. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 4 supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u91	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u93	Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, i.e. 1 the words..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u95	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5 with the corresponding corrections supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 90 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u97	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u98	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u99	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7, which the Commission supports. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u100	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... The procedures and procedures for the transfer of convicted persons and the recognition of convictions which have not been completed until the entry into force of this law are completed in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u101	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u102	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 9, and the words "this law' shall be replaced by "the law'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u103	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 supported by the Commission, with the corresponding version. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u104	Annex 1 to art. The Commission shall support the text of the Annex 1 importer and the words "the person under art. 2, para. The word "socialisation" shall be replaced by "socialisation" and the words "with a measure requiring detention" shall be replaced by a measure involving imprisonment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u105	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 1 with the corresponding version supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u106	Annex 2 to art. 22, para. The Commission shall support the text of the Annex No 2 importer and shall be replaced by the words.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u107	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 2 with the corrections supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAWS ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE STATE AND THE GENERAL ARCHIVES. Firstly, the Commission's report on legal issues. Here you are, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-22, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova, Maria Yordanova Ilieva and Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov on 12 April 2019, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Bari Hamid on 18 April 2019. At its meeting held on 24 April 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-22, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova, Maria Yordanova Ilieva and Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov on 12 April 2019 and the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Bari Hamid on 18 April 2019. On behalf of the importers, the Law supplementing the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages, No 954 01-22, was presented by Ms. Anna Alexandrova, who indicated that it proposed that the claims against the State for damages from breach of the law of the European Union should be dealt with in the order laid down in the Administrative Procedure Code, where the damage is caused by acts, acts or omissions of bodies or officials in or on the occasion of the execution of administrative activities, as well as by the judicial activity of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court. In other cases, claims shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Code. The order under the Administrative Procedure Code is also intended to apply to claims for damages caused by the judicial activity of the administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court, which corresponds to the expressly ordered conviction of the claims under Article. 128a of the Administrative Procedure Code, where the subject of the actions is established the nullity of the judicial acts of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court and which are subordinate to the administrative courts. Ms. Alexandrova added that with the amendment, the administrative courts will also deal with cases where those acts are brought in violation of European Union law and are caused harm to individuals. The President of the Commission on Legal Affairs stressed that the proposed amendments to the Administrative Code of Procedure are in line with the amendment of the Law on State and Municipal Liability for Damage, since until now there is no special legal rule in the Code which gives the administrative courts the power to deal with claims for damages from infringement of European Union law arising from the judicial activity of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court. National Representative Hamid Hamid presented the reasons of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-26, pointing out that it proposes a change in art. 1 of the Law on the liability of the State and the municipalities for damages to extend the scope of the Law, adding that the State and the municipalities are liable for damage caused by the operation of repealed or declared minor regulations. It is proposed that persons in a difficult social situation be relieved of the payment of a state fee in contesting cases relating to social assistance. A State fee is introduced for the submission of a private complaint and for the administrative authorities of the State or municipal authorities as they were parties to the first instance proceedings and are entitled to appeal the judgments. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hamid Hamid, Desislava Atanasova and Christian Mitev, who expressed their support for both bills, pointing out that between first and second votes certain provisions should be refined. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes in favour, without abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-22, submitted by Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Anna Vasileva Alexandrova, Maria Yordanova Ilieva and Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov on 12 April 2019, and with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Bari Hamid on 18 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. The second report belongs to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, your attention is: ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Bari Hamid on 18 April 2019. At a meeting held on 15 May 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage (IPOV), No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Bari Hamid on 18 April 2019. The bill was presented by the MP Sergey Kichikov. The Bill proposed a change in art. 1 of the IDAV, which extends the scope of the Law, adding that the State and municipalities are responsible for damage caused by the operation of repealed or declared minor regulations. The amendment is necessary in order to overcome the consequences of the Interpretation Decision No 2 of 27 July 2016 in Case No 2/2015 of the Supreme Court, OCC, I and II, which is mandatory for the courts. According to the thesis adopted in the decision, the damage caused to citizens and legal entities in the course of or on the occasion of the implementation (action) of a regulation in the period before it is repealed as unlawful or void shall not be subject to compensation under Article 3. 1, para. 1 of the Zodov. The proposed bill is introduced an amendment of art. 213b of the Administrative Procedure Code, as there is a gap in the Code with regard to the right of persons under para. Art. 2 of art. 213b, to award them costs with the termination orders and definitions where the response of the defendant to the cassation complaint has requested the award of costs for the cassation proceedings. Next, it is proposed that persons who are in a difficult social situation be relieved of the payment of a state fee in contesting cases relating to social assistance. In the current version of art. 227a of the Administrative Procedure Code, the socially weak persons pay a state fee for cassation contesting the cases of social support amounting to BGN 70. The practice should be confirmed, such as citizens and sole traders who appeal for acts in cases of social assistance to benefit from the privilege granted to citizens and sole traders who appeal respectively to cases of pension, health and social security. In the current version of art. 235a of the Administrative Procedure Code there is also a gap regarding the payment of a state fee for a private complaint by the state and municipal authorities. Therefore, in a sentence first, the administrative authorities of the State or municipal authorities should also be included in the entities which should pay a State fee for the submission of a private complaint as they were parties to the first instance proceedings and are entitled to appeal the judgments. Finally, an annulment is proposed. 27, para. 7 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. By virtue of that provision, budgetary organisations within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 5 of the Additional Provisions of the Public Finance Act are exempt from the payment of state fees. The quoted norm is in a coliseum with the entry into art. 227a of the Administrative Code of Procedure obligation for all parties in the process, including the state and municipal authorities, to pay a state fee upon initiation of the cassation proceedings. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee held a vote with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to support the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Responsibility of the State and the Municipalities for Damage in the First Voting, No 954-01-26, submitted by Hamid Barry Hamid on 18 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Motives? Mrs. Ilieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u112	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention the reasons for the draft Law on Supplement to the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. The new provision proposed in both paragraphs is extremely procedural. This follows from the fact that the substantive regime of the non-contractual liability of the Member States of the European Union for breach of European Union law, namely the establishment of that type of liability, the elements of its factual composition and certain features of the admissibility of such claims, are laid down in the law of the European Union by the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the basic judgments, namely the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of 19 November 1991 of Andrea Frankovic and of Danila Bonifaci and others v Italian Republic, Pre-order C-6/90 and C 6 9/90, Sammlung der Rechtsprechung 1991, S. Brasserie du Pecher SA gegen Bundesrepublik Deutschland und The Queen gegen Secretary of State for Transport, ex parte: Factortame Ltd und andere, the case for a preliminary ruling, as well as the case at the Vienna District Court of Civil Affairs, Austria concerning a dispute between Gerhardt Koebler and the Republic of Austria. In view of the principle of the rule of law of the European Union with regard to national legal acts, primary substantive rules should not be given to this type of liability under national law and only procedural rules should be given. In accordance with the principle of respect for the procedural autonomy of national legal systems, the right to settle the procedure for the implementation of the non-contractual liability of the Member State for breach of European Union law is allowed. For this reason, the new provision provided for in Article 3 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and The inclusion of the new provision in the scope of the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages takes first account of the fact that the State's liability under this law is objective and innocent, as well as its non-contractual liability for breach of European Union law. The new provision provides for two procedural arrangements for the examination of this type of claims, the one set out in the Administrative Procedure Code and the form of order established in the Civil Procedure Code. The applicable procedural order will resolve the issue of the confidentiality of claims for damages. Actions against the State for damages from infringement of European Union law where the damage is caused by acts, acts or omissions of bodies or officials in or in the event of the execution of administrative activities, as well as by the judicial activities of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court, shall be subject to the administrative courts and shall be subject to the administrative procedure of the Code of Procedure. In other cases, claims shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Code. The approach adopted follows the existing way of examining the state's liability claims under art. Art. 1, art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 2a of the Law. The ones under art. 1, para. 1 shall be dealt with in the order of the Administrative Procedure Code and the rest under the Civil Procedure Code. The new provision also provides that the order under the Administrative Code of Procedure also applies to claims for damages caused by the judicial activities of the administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court. The arrangement shall be consistent with the expressly settled defendant of the claims under art. 128a of the Administrative Procedure Code, where the subject of the actions is established the nullity of the judicial acts of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court and which are subordinate to the administrative courts. With the amendment, administrative courts will also deal with cases where those acts are brought in breach of European Union law and damage to individuals is caused by them. With the intended second paragraph of art. 2c of the Law on the liability of the State and the municipalities for damages is resolved a controversial and extremely important issue for the case-law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It should be pointed out that this issue is central in the discussion by the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Court of Cassation in the case of the joint interpretation of what should be the applicable procedural order in respect of the claims by which the State's non-contractual liability for breach of European Union law is realised. With paragraph 2 of Article 2. 2c for this type of cases will be paid a simple fee in the amount determined by the tariff adopted by the Council of Ministers, which will guarantee the same approach from both types of courts and will overcome the possibility of limiting the right of access to court. The proposed amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code are in line with the amendments to the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage by establishing a new provision of art. 2c. In so far as there is no special legal rule in the Administrative Code which gives the administrative courts the power to deal with claims for damages from infringement of European Union law arising from the judicial activity of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court, such a legal possibility shall be provided for by this amendment. This requires an amendment of the relevant norms of art. 1 "Instructions" of art. 128 "Development" by introducing a special call for administrative courts to deal with this type of claim. The amendment to Art. 1. 203 includes the creation of two new paragraphs which relate to the clarification of the application of State non-contractual liability standards with regard to its substantive legal regime and the assessment of the admissibility of the claim, which differ in a number of cases from claims based on national law. With the introduction of a reference to the rules of the Civil Procedure Code on the content of the application, the evidence and evidence process shall fill in an existing emptiness in the Administrative Procedure Code, the rules of the GPC on the content of the application and the evidence and until now shall be applied subsidiaryly under art. 144 The Administrative Procedure Code. The explicit reference to the Civil Procedure Code, limited only to the stated circumstances, answers the essential question of the caselaw to what extent the civil Procedure Code's claim process is applied in the process under art. 203 Administrative Procedure Code. In this way, it becomes clear that the other procedural actions of the parties and the court, a report, complications in relation to the parties, a counterclaim, a counterclaim, a partial claim, a non-existent decision typical of the civil process should not be applied in the Administrative Procedure Code process. The proposed amendment shall indicate in an explicit manner that the correct indication of the defendant meeting the requirements of art. 205, para. 1 The administrative procedural code is a question of the regularity of the application and not of the basis of the application. To the extent that legal persons in administrative law are established by law, the acts and acts of administrative authority are also established by law, it is clear in advance to the parties to the procedural relationship who should be designated as a procedural substitute of the State in the proceedings under art. 1, para. 1 of the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. An indication of the proper defendant shall be clearly indicated as a prerequisite for the regularity of the application and, hence, for the admissibility of the legal proceedings in respect of the application. Thus, the way towards the conduct of the entire trial against an unworthy defendant, which ends with the rejection of the claim against the State, is blocked, provided that the court is initially clear about the outcome of the case. The amendment highlights the official role of the court in the proper constitution of the parties by embodying the principle of the official beginning established in art. 9, para. 4 The Administrative Procedure Code according to which the court should provide procedural assistance to the parties for a lawful and fair solution to the issue of the proceedings, including with an agreement. With the proposal for a change in art. 213b, para. 3 An existing inaccuracies shall be dealt with in relation to the requirement that the irregular cassation complaint be returned to the Court of First Instance instead of the applicant of the same cassation complaint. The new text of the norm states that the administration of the cassation complaint is not an action for which payment of the state fee is due and the practice to require the filing of the state fee due for the cassation appeal is overcome, after which the case is to be terminated due to another irregularity of the cassation appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u113	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we will support the two legislations tabled. We believe that they are perfecting the legal framework under the responsibility of the state and municipalities for damage caused to citizens. A few words on the bill that we have tabled. There's been a lot of talk about this project. More than six months ago it was imported once by BSP colleagues, of course, not in the same form. It is in connection with an interpretive decision of the General Assembly of Judges in the Supreme Administrative Court, where the College considers that compensation should not be paid in the case of repealed regulations of the State and municipalities, and our opinion is that a fundamental principle in law is that who causes damage is obliged to correct them. Whether the act has been withdrawn has been a binding act of the State or of the municipality concerned, the annulment itself does not erase the consequences, does not restore the damage caused by that act. I think the text should be supported in this direction. I have come to know the negative opinion of the Ministry of Finance, as we have also heard the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, and I express my readiness during a second reading of the Bill, in case you support me, to review some of my texts and to find consensus with the Ministry of Finance on the proposed texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, we will also support both bills. I will start with my colleague Hamid's bill and call on him not to rush so extremely to give up the opinion he has supported. At the very least, we should have a discussion at second reading before it comes to such a sudden withdrawal of the texts. I would remind you that when we were looking at the major amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, this issue was on the agenda, we argued a lot, and then we did not decide on this step, and I mean the responsibility of the state and municipalities for damages in cases where we have a repealed regulation. Practically, this authorisation is entirely for the benefit of citizens. The only reasons against it are from the Ministry of Finance in terms of funds, but I believe that at least the action of these texts can be considered to be postponed, which will come into force later.. No, of course, in the middle of the budget year, it is clear that there is no way in this case to provide the necessary financial resources, but why not one or two years from now to seek consensus to postpone the action of such a norm. I also believe that the other proposal is fair with regard to the state fee for filing a private complaint by the State and municipalities. The State and the municipalities have this opportunity and should, as the other legal entities, be disciplined by the payment of such a state fee, which will in practice lead to private complaints only in cases where this is justified and necessary. With regard to the Bill submitted by colleagues from GERB, the issue that is dealt with by it has long been in the legal theory, in the administrative law theory concerning claims against the State and damages for damages from infringement of the law of the European Union to be dealt with in accordance with the APC when the damage is caused by acts of acts or omissions of bodies or officials in the course of or on the occasion of the execution of administrative activity, as well as by the judicial activity of the administrative courts or the Supreme Administrative Court, and in other cases it is proposed that the actions be dealt with in the order laid down in the Civil Procedure Code. This is a provision and authorisation which is in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. All colleagues of the Legal Committee know that there was a judgment against Bulgaria in this sense that there is no such order in the law. Here perhaps only between first and second reading should be preciseed the exact place of the proposed changes whether they should be at the beginning of art. 2 and thus cover all cases of liability of the State and the municipalities of unlawful acts and actions of both the courts, whether administrative or civil, respectively criminal, and by the administrative authorities. In this sense, I call on you to support these two bills, which are fully in favour of the citizens, and if they are adopted, they will have a disciplinary effect on the activities of the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-22, submitted by Iglika Sabeva, Anna Alexandrova, Maria Ilieva and Dimitar Lazarov, on 12 April 2019. Vote 96 MPs: for 86, no objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, No 954-01-26, submitted by the MP Hamid Hamid Hamid on 18 April 2019. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Dear Members, we have exhausted the points for today's plenary session. Tomorrow, 30 May 2019, regular plenary sitting at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
