ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before we go to the first point for today, I will read you a few messages. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria was introduced in the Law of the National Assembly. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; to additional committees: Committee on Legal Affairs and Commission on Children, Youth and Sports, Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by order has authorised the ships of the Second Permanent Armistice Group of NATO to enter the territorial sea and internal waters of the Republic of Bulgaria one day earlier than the meeting of yesterday on 21 February 2019. The period for the stay of the group on the territory of the country is from 21 to 28 February 2019. The notification was received on 20 February 2019 with entry No 903-09-3 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Just 20 years ago, the UNESCO General Conference set February 21st for International Mother's Day. Today we will mark it together with many countries around the world and with all minorities and communities speaking their own language. They say the living languages in the world are between six and seven thousand. We're convinced...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u3	Can you bring order to the court?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u4	Please, colleagues, take your seats! Please! Proceed, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u5	We are convinced and convinced that linguistic diversity is a spiritual wealth and immeasurable material heritage of mankind. As Bulgarian citizens, we are already part of the 500 million European Union, which, with the values of the new time, has the ambition to ensure the co-existence of the languages of all nationalities. In this situation, at first glance, it is inconceivable and absurd to prohibit the use of language within a civilised Europe. Moreover, since 1992, the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages has been in place, which is actually a common treaty for their promotion and protection. Dear colleagues, there are paradoxes in Bulgaria, there are absurdities. There is also targeted discrimination. We voted last week on the Election Code, according to which the use of mother tongue is prohibited during an election campaign, even with translation. A monolingual dogma has been imposed. The recommendations of the Venice Commission are no longer read. They're just careless. The language is a means of communication, but the Bulgarian Parliament, all parties and the Prime Minister personally turned it into an instrument of discrimination. Three days ago the Prime Minister of the country and Chairman of GERB and this morning Tsvetan Tsvetanov absurdly complained to journalists that it was written about a coalition with DPS. It was written about preferences, and people did not see that sedentity had remained, that mother tongue, as a suggestion, was rejected. That is to say, in translation into Bulgarian, they boast that discrimination has been imposed on a million and a half Bulgarian citizens, their compatriots and I think they are waiting for applause for this by the Bulgarian society. It's a decay of values. One more example I'll give you and it's too up-to-date. Prime Minister Borisov last week was in Serbia and the Western outskirts and enjoyed the tolerance of the Serbs, who restored with an official sign of the municipality building written in Bulgarian, the old name of Dimitrovgrad. With us the names of thousands of areas, villages and cities were changed back in 1934 after the military coup, but they are changing now. After 600 years the Turkish names of areas in Stara Zagora were not well known. Ladies and gentlemen, language is a fundamental human right and a fundamental factor for democracy. In our common homeland, this is also a constitutional right. But it is suspended and thus Bulgarian democracy is discredited. And the constitutional judges elected by us, but then raised in their togas, strangely silent on this matter. Strangely silent and the president of the Republic, who supposedly unites us all. Even stranger is the ambition of the Ombudsman to appeal to the Constitutional Court the amendments to the Election Code concerning the preference, but not for the withdrawal of selective law and the ban on mother tongue communication. Bulgarian citizens, no matter what ethnic origin they have, what faith they profess, where they live and what their mother tongue is, have the right to choose and be elected. The equal opportunities of all political parties to reach their voters with their political messages are deeply compromised. Because elderly people, representatives of minority communities, do not know and understand Bulgarian. In this sense, this democracy is doubtful, in which a nationalist majority imposes its discriminatory rules on the minority, contrary to common human values, contrary to the level of civilization reached in the 21st century. Colleagues, is it even possible that monolingualism and all other languages should be banned in a given territory in today's mobile and global world? Is it democratic for language to be sanctioned? Is it normal to fine a person who communicates with another person and they get along perfectly? What other non-despotic state in the modern world forbids people to speak their own language? Ladies and gentlemen, keeping your native tongue is patriotic. It's a sacred language of my grandfathers. It brings us to the community, to the nation, to our millennial history and culture. We don't accept chauvinism. And there is no way the Turks, the Armenians, the Jews and the Roma could be torn from their roots. But there have been attempts. There is now. In recent years the Roma language is not studied at all and in this ethnicity functional illiteracy is fracking and frustrating. Brightly, there is a tendency in some areas of the country not to learn a Turkish mother tongue at all or to drastically reduce school hours. For four hours they have only one hour a week and are studied optionally according to the Preschool and School Education Act as a freely elected subject. It is not acceptable in schools to have obstacles and restrictions, eternal problems with finances, with teachers and their qualifications. We take education as a priority. And beyond all state and educational standards for 27 years in Bulgaria, no textbooks in Turkish are published! Is it normal for all mother tongue experts to be dismissed from work? And now one of those who combines with foreign language training, none of the experts from any RIO in the country know any native language? By what criteria are these experts appointed, and what methodical assistance do they provide when they do not know the language? What kind of politic education is this? Can we appoint for experts people who do not know Bulgarian language? If we draw a parallel with the other European countries, what results will be formed? Is it the same attitude towards learning Bulgarian mother tongue in countries where there are Bulgarian minorities - Serbia, Macedonia, Moldova [[the President signals that time has run out]] , Romania...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u6	The weather, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u7	I'm done. ... Ukraine, Albania.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u8	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u9	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u10	At the same time there are more than 550 Bulgarian Sunday schools around the world with the provision of funding from the Bulgarian Ministry of Education...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u11	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u12	...who study Bulgarian language in foreign births and we support that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u13	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u14	But the double standards are coming out, and they're disturbing to us. [[Noise and lines.]] Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u15	Yes, finish it, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u16	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u17	Colleagues, please keep quiet a little longer!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u18	The development of humanity is due to human communication, but we all see that in this respect intolerant Bulgaria has not developed an inch in 30 years. That is why we feel and accept today's International Mother tongue Day as a very meaningful and beautiful holiday where we also tell ourselves some bitter truths. This is a day when we realize our historical destiny in this land and live with the belief that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u19	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u20	... together we build our common future in our common homeland. Today we congratulate all teachers in their mother tongues for their dedication and an awkward mission to train children Binguvi. We appreciate their work...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u21	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u22	...patriotism and humanism to preserve and preserve the language.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u23	Finish it, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u24	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u25	We also congratulate parents who realize the importance of this child, as well as the official Bulgarian language, to study his motherhood. We also congratulate all cultural figures who keep the basic traditions of the community! Right and humanity are on our side! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmed. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESIDENT'S MANDATE FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION. It's done: To the President of the 44th National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria: Dear Ms. Karayancheva, in connection with Decision No 886 of 6 December 2018 of the Council of Ministers for the designation of my representative of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Board of Directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, please release me from the post of Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission as from 1 March 2019, with respect: Karina Karaivanova. Mrs. Stoyanova, please make an offer of admission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u27	Madam President, Mrs. Karina Karaivanova is here in the couloirs if the National Assembly has questions for her, perhaps we should allow her into the Chamber. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I'm asking for a vote on admission. They voted 123 MPs: 98, against 12, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Karaivanova to the hall. I will present to your attention a professional: Project! DECISION on early termination of the term of office of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6, para. 2, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED Ends Karina Dimitrova Karaivanova-Ganozova's early term as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission with effect from 1 March 2019 Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the decision to terminate the term of office of the President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Vote 124 MPs: 113 against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Thank you. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND RESTRUCTURING OF CANDIDATES FOR THE COMMISSION'S PRESIDENT FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION'S BUDGET AND FINLANDS AS WELL as THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova, to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u29	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance At a meeting held on 20 February 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Financial Supervision Commission. The adoption of procedural rules is necessary in relation to the election of a new President of the Financial Supervision Commission. On 19 February 2019, a letter was received from Ms. Karina Karaivanova in the Chamber of the National Assembly asking to be released from the post of Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission as from 1 March 2019 due to its designation by Decision No 886 of 6 December 2018 of the Council of Ministers for a representative of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Board of Directors of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. In accordance with art. 5, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the National Assembly should elect a Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 14 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission and submitting their documents. 1. A proposal for a candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be made by a Member of the National Assembly or by a parliamentary group. The proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for a candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 4, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3" to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with a minimum degree of qualification in the field of economics, finance, law, mathematics, informatics and other appropriate for the supervision and regulation of the non-banking financial sector speciality; (f) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good reputation, knowledge, skills and professional experience and meets the requirement for work and/or service in the speciality of not less than 5 years for the last 10 years; the work and/or service experience in the speciality must be acquired according to the requirements of art. 4, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. 3. The circumstances of art. 4, para. 3, p. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposal together with the documents attached to it shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly within 12 days of the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. 3. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Applicants shall be submitted in alphabetical order to their own names by the importers of the proposals within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates shall present their concept of the Financial Supervision Commission's activity within 20 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair in alphabetical order of their own names within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. After the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly are exhausted, the applicant shall be in charge of up to 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission on the basis of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. V. Election of President of the Financial Supervision Commission by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President of the Financial Supervision Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 4, para. 3, p. 2? 7 and para. 4 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act in accordance with Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the Madam President, we also have five applications that are based on the text of the rules themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, I'm opening the deliberations on the rules of procedure. You have the floor to speak. I do not see anyone willing to take part in the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Next up is item three for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND REPRESENTATION OF MEMBERS OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING IN THE COMMISSION ON LEGAL QUESTIONS, PRESENTATION AND SELECTION OF A PRESENTANT, DELEGATORS AND SELECTION OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION. The report will introduce us... Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u31	Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u32	Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the discussion of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of the President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission At its meeting held on 20 February 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Rules of Procedure for conducting a public procedure under art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of members of the Central Election Commission. The need to conduct the public procedure arises from the expiry of the term of office of the Central Election Commission on the basis of art. 51, para. 1 of the Election Code. In order to implement the provision of art. 51, para. 1 of the Election Code, the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose to adopt rules of procedure for the election of members of the Central Election Commission. During the discussion the People's Representative Danail Kirilov proposed an extension of the deadline for proposals for members of the Central Election Commission under Section I. 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure, as well as with regard to the time limit referred to in art. 93, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which was unanimously adopted by the Members of the National Assembly with 10 votes for. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of the President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 46, para. Art. 4, Art. 9, Art. 47 of the Election Code, and Art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the selection of the Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission: I. Offering members of the Central Election Commission and submitting their documents. 1. Bulgarian NGOs may make proposals for members of the Central Election Commission to the MPs and parliamentary groups within 12 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for members of the Central Election Commission shall be made by MPs, parliamentary groups, as well as by parties and coalitions which have been elected with their candidate lists of Members of the European Parliament but are not parliamentaryly represented, in writing through the proceedings of the National Assembly to the Committee on Legal Affairs, within 14 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. Where a Member of the National Assembly or a Parliamentary Group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation under point (a) of Article 2 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Member State concerned shall make a proposal on the basis of a proposal from a non-governmental organisation under point (c) of Article 3 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, this is noted in it. 3. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: - written consent of the applicant according to the template - detailed CV; - certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with a minimum degree of education and qualification of Master; it is recommended that higher education be in law, computer sciences and computer sciences, mathematics, public communications and information sciences, political sciences and sociology; certificate of legal capacity if higher education is in the specialty of law; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 50, para. 1, t. 3, or para. 2 of the Election Code; - written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex No 2" to the Decision; - a statement on a template relating to the requirements of art. 50, para. 1, t. 1 of the Election Code "Acceptance No 3 to the Decision. The circumstances of art. 50, para. 3, p. 1 of the Election Code shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals together with the documents under Section I shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The name and the reasons of the MP who made the proposal shall be published. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Legal Affairs on candidates, including questions to be referred to them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. The mass media may send to the Committee on Legal Affairs to the candidates to be assigned to it. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. The opinions and questions are sent by mail to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar Isek No 1, Commission on Legal Affairs, or by e-mail: kpvl@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of the proposed members of the Central Election Commission. 1. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the proposed members of the Central Election Commission, who shall meet the requirements for taking up the post under art. 50 of the Election Code. 2. The hearing shall be held at an open meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which shall be broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 3. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall hear the importer of the proposal on the order of its submission and the applicant shall be presented in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography as well as to show his view of the activities of the Central Election Commission in an exhibition within 5 minutes. 5. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those received under the terms and conditions of Section II, i.e. 2. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 6. Upon completion of the asked questions, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to answer in an exhibition within 3 minutes. 7. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. 8. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 9. The Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates. 10. Following the public procedure: (a) Parliamentaryly represented parties and coalitions shall make a proposal to the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission within two days of the hearing and shall propose a draft decision; (b) Parliamentaryly represented parties and coalitions, as well as the parties and coalitions which have been elected with their candidate lists of Members of the European Parliament, but are not parliamentary represented, within the period referred to in the letter...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 46, para. 8 of the Election Code. 11. In cases referred to in art. 46, para. 9 of the Election Code for unoccupied places are offered persons involved in the hearing under this section. Where the proposed persons involved in the hearing are less than the required number of members of the Central Election Commission, a new selection procedure shall be opened for unoccupied seats. V. Election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. 1. The meeting of the National Assembly is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates may be present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report from the hearing held. 3. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal for Chairman, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission at an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The National Assembly shall elect separately the President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 50, para. 3 of the Code of Elections in the template "Annex No 4 to the Decision'; 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a), 1 a declaration under Article 1 shall be lodged. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property according to the model "Annex No 5 to the Decision." Annex No 1 to a decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Annex No 2 to a decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Annex No 3 to a decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Annex No 4 to a decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Annex No 5 to a decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u35	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! The opposition is not in plenary, although this procedure is inevitably related to the opposition's reactions, but the absence reflects, in my view, the attitude and purpose of the public attack in relation to the procedure for the election of a new Central Election Commission (CEC). However, I will not talk about the political motives and arguments of this procedure. I took the floor to inform my colleagues about the legal framework of the Election Code. Art. 46 to Art. 50, the problems that were posed in this framework in 2014, when the mandate of the then Central Election Commission was terminated early and forced, arguing that a new Election Code should appoint a new Central Election Commission. This CEC was formed with the claim to be a permanent professional administration to lead the electoral process. Five years later, we regretfully find that this objective did not take place and did not happen. A large part of the inability to do so were the provisions laid down in the Law. In each element of the constitution of the Central Election Commission, unfortunately, there are contradictions and they had an absolute conjunctural nature. For example, this procedure has the strange peculiarity of being divided into two parts. One part is the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission, which is being carried out by us here in this Chamber. Given that the composition of the Central Election Commission is of 18 members, we choose four of them... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u36	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u37	...and the other 14 are appointed, unclear on what procedure, by the President of the Republic. On this occasion, the question of the public hearing of all candidates arises sharply. Thanks to the reaction of the then President Rosen Plevneliev, we have a case which will serve as a parliamentary practice, which we fought then as opposition to, in the National Assembly to hear absolutely all candidates: and those who will be in the leadership and will be nominated, and respectively elected by the National Assembly, and those who will be transited by a decree of the President of the Republic. The chronogram, if these procedural rules are adopted today, is as follows: on 5 March 2019, this is in 12 days, the deadline for proposals of Bulgarian NGOs, which can make proposals for members of the Central Election Commission to the MPs and parliamentary groups will expire. The next term is 7 March 2019, Thursday, when the 14-day deadline for proposals to be made by the MPs, parliamentary groups, as well as parties and coalitions that have been selected with their candidate lists members of the European Parliament but are not parliamentaryly represented. Dear colleagues, in this procedure, in the debate in the Legal Committee, we decided to respect the recommendations of non-governmental organizations in this case the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives (BIPIs) - through their representative to reverse the deadlines, i.e. to give longer deadlines for nomination by the entities who can nominate candidates. These are the MPs and the parliamentary groups. Accordingly, we increased the deadline from seven to 14 days. In the context of this deadline are also the 12 days for all non-governmental organisations that can address to us their proposals, which, if supported accordingly, should be submitted with the indication that this is a proposal from a non-governmental organisation. The next deadline we have to comply with is 15 March 2019. It is seven days from the publication of the applications until their hearing in the Commission. These are seven days when the documents of the candidates are uploaded to the National Assembly's website in the special section for this public procedure so that all interested citizens and organizations can get acquainted with these papers and documents. On 18 March 2019, Monday, the deadline would have expired for proposals made by parliamentary parties and coalitions for the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission, as well as for proposals to the President of the Republic for the appointment of the other members of the Central Election Commission. And the last term, the last date is 20 March 2019, Wednesday, for the election of President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission to be held here in this Chamber. The question arises: in this situation, will the President of the Republic react and appoint, issue decrees for the appointment of the remaining 14 members nominated by the parliamentary groups? I personally express my hope that this will be done in a timely manner. I also stress that the date of 20 March 2019 is the date when the five-year term of the current Central Election Commission expires, that is, in any event, despite the criticisms and criticisms, we were able to comply with the term of office, regardless of the fact that the Law provided for the possibility for this Commission to make the next choice of representatives of Bulgaria in the European Parliament. I will not take your attention to the many legal problems that are at stake in the procedure. I hope and wish both the institutions and the candidates that this procedure will be carried out rigorously without abuse of rights without escalating conflicts and tensions and without using the procedure as an element of the election campaign. We all have to consider that the CEC should be chosen, the new CEC should accept the chronogram of the election campaign and the actions in the election period, and only then should the political campaign and political competition be conducted for platforms and programmes, not in advance, on the occasion and on the occasion of the nomination. I am convinced that there will be candidates with sufficient experience, knowledge of the electoral process and high personal, professional and moral qualities to participate in this procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Replies to Mr. Kirilov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I will put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing members of the Central Election Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and their hearing in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal and election of a Chair, Vice-Presidents and Secretary of the Central Election Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECORDING OF THE SETTLEMENT AND THE LIVE FUND IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2021 The report will introduce us to Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, I propose a procedure based on art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber: Sergey Tsvetarski, Chairman of the National Statistical Institute, and Magdalena Kostova, Director of the Department of Demographic and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting for admission in this House. Vote 97 MPs: 90, none, abstention 7. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u41	Report on the Bill on Population Census and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2021, No 802-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2018, adopted on the first vote on 30 January 2019. "The Census of the Population and Housing Fund in the Republic of Bulgaria in The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u42	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u43	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission supports the importer's test for the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u44	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the importer's test for the name of Chapter One. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u45	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u46	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u47	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2, as in para. 1 the words "the whole country" shall be replaced by "the whole country" and "the whole country" shall be replaced by "the country."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u48	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 2, as in para. 1 the words "the whole country" shall be replaced by "the whole country" and "the whole country" shall be replaced by "the whole country." Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u49	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u50	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the importer's test for art. 3. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u51	"Chapter 2" "Customs Authorities." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u52	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the importer's test for the name of Chapter 2. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u53	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u54	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of the importer for art. 4 and the text of the importer for art. 5. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u55	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. The National Statistical Institute shall: 1. ensure the general management and uniform methodology of the preparation and conduct of the census in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. develop a Programme for the census of population and housing in 2021, hereinafter referred to as the Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census; 3. develop the statistical tools for conducting the census and organise its printing and distribution; 4. develop a communication strategy and conduct a national awareness campaign for the purposes and tasks of the census; 5. organize and conduct the training of the bodies of the census, controllers and counters; 6. identify households in which the accompanying census sampling statistical surveys are conducted; 7. collect, process, publish, distribute and store the census data; 8. prepare a report on the implementation of the activities; 9. provide the European Commission (Eurostat) with final, verified and aggregated data and quality-related data and
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u56	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! At first reading I had the opportunity to say my considerations to the 2011 census. I believe that this text is the important thing to make the right conclusions from the previous census when, as are the international requirements, the indication of ethnicity, religious affiliation is not mandatory. The previous census was done so that it turned out that in Bulgaria instead of having five and a half million Orthodox Bulgarians there are four million and four hundred thousand. The same applies to other religions and ethnicities, and a distortion in data has occurred. That is why our request then and now is: the technology itself and the census program to really be done so electronically, including at the homes of the people, the graphs, which are not mandatory, to read them and note that they do not want to point out and not miss them as something they do not need to fill out. This is really important for us to have objective statistical information, not to live in deception, not to distort data. Yes, it is true that the international requirements for religious affiliation, ethnicity and other things are not mandatory. People, in order not to feel discriminated against, may not refer to them. This is their right, but we are still obliged to make it possible to obtain the most objective information about ethnic composition and religious communities in Bulgaria, because this is important not only for statistics. It is important when analyzings and strategies are made when draft laws are voted, because sometimes it is ethnic and religious affiliation. The other thing I wanted to add. Given that we have been debating the last years for e-voting, and there is an e-count, it is very important that measures are taken to protect e-counting -- not to have the possibility of hacking -- not to have the possibility of replacing results. The times we live in are threatened by such actions. I hope that the National Statistical Institute will make such protection of the electronic census that it will in no way allow replacement of what people have declared. The third aspect of which I wanted to stress is the censusers themselves. It is very important that the censusers themselves are prepared to be educated people, people who will strictly fulfil their obligation. There's plenty of time for nearly two years until the next census. These people need to start preparing earlier if they need to even give higher wages, more money for them, but not to make it fictitious and go to people's homes, but to fulfill their obligation. Here it is not only NSI's role, it is also the municipalities' role to recommend their non-party comrades to arrange them for some work, but to really find educated people who will fulfill this duty to the state. It is our desire that the National Statistical Institute make it possible from now on to start recruiting these people, training them to know that they will do their job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u58	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 6. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u59	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) The Central Census Commission shall be a temporary body consisting of a Chair, Vice-President, Secretary and not more than 20 members. (2) The CDC shall be composed of representatives of: 1. the National Statistical Institute; 2. state bodies and offices which establish and maintain registers or databases containing information on the premises of the census; 3. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria (NSORB), NGOs, mass media and academic community. (3) The Chairman of the CDC shall be the Chairman of the NSI. (4) The Central Census Commission shall be appointed by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Chairman of the NSI and shall determine the duration of the commission. (5) The Central Commission of the Census: 1. discuss and accept the Census Program and all documents related to the organization, preparation and conduct of the census; 2. coordinate the actions of the state authorities and departments responsible for carrying out the census among certain categories of the population; 3. discusses and proposes measures to address gaps and errors in the work of the census authorities, controllers and counters; 4. establish temporary counting points in case of justified necessity in the period under art. 3, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 5. adopt the reports of the district census committees on the results of the census carried out; 6. adopt a report on the implementation of the census activities and the main results thereof. (6) The work of the committee shall be led by its chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u60	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 7 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u61	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u62	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Art. 8 and art. 9 on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u63	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) A temporary municipal census commission shall be set up in each municipality in the composition of a President, Secretary and not more than 7 members. A municipal census commission for each region is set up in cities with areas. (2) The municipal census commission shall be composed of: 1. two representatives of the municipal administration; 2. at least one representative of the town halls; 3. representative of the NSI. (3) The representatives of the municipal administration and the town halls shall be appointed by the mayor of the municipality or of the region, and the representatives of the NSI shall be appointed by the director of the CCB. (4) The municipal census commission shall be chaired by the secretary of the municipality or of the region. (5) The Secretary of the Municipal Counting Commission shall be a representative of the NSI on a proposal from the relevant Director of the CCB. (6) The municipal census commission shall be appointed by order of the Chairman of the NSI on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality or the region no later than 6 months before the critical moment of the census. The appointment order shall specify the duration of the commission. (7) The Municipal Counting Commission: 1. organise the preparation and conduct of the census in the municipality or region in accordance with the Census Programme, the instructions of the Chairman of the NSI and the decisions of the Regional Counting Commission; 2. organize and conduct the recruitment of controllers and counters; 3. organize together with the TCB the training of controllers and counters, as well as persons engaged in the preliminary tour; 4. inform the district census commission of the preparation and conduct of the census in the municipality; 5. coordinate the activities of the use of the census data from registers and other databases; 6. transmits all counting materials to the CCB and prepares a report to the district census commission. (8) The work of the committee shall be led by its chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u64	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 10. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u65	? Chapter 3? The object of the census and data?? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I" "Observation" and "Observation units." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u66	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 3 and the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Vote 68 MPs: for 67, against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u67	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, and the word "the country" is replaced by "the country" and "the country" is replaced by "the country" and "the country" is replaced by "the country" and "the country" is replaced by "the country."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u68	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 11, and the word "the country" is replaced by "the country" and "the country" is replaced by "the country" and "the country" is replaced by "the country" and "the country" is replaced by "the country." Vote 69 MPs: 66, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u69	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) Surveillance units of the census shall be the following persons: 1. Bulgarian citizens who live normally in the Republic of Bulgaria, regardless of whether at the critical moment of the census they are located in the territory of the locality where they normally live or in the territory of another locality in the Republic of Bulgaria or outside the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. Bulgarian citizens who live normally in the Republic of Bulgaria, but at the critical moment of the census reside outside it at the request of the Bulgarian State, its authorities and organizations, as well as the members of their families accompanying them; 3. the citizens of the European Union and the members of their families who live normally in the Republic of Bulgaria at the critical moment of the census; 4. foreigners who have received a residence permit in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 23, para. 1, t. 2 - 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria before the critical moment, as well as persons without citizenship; 5. persons granted protection under the Asylum and Refugees Act before the critical time of the census; 6. Bulgarian citizens who live normally outside the Republic of Bulgaria but at the critical moment of the census temporarily reside on its territory; 7. foreigners who have received a residence permit under art. 23, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria before the critical moment of the census, as well as persons without citizenship; 8. persons for whom proceedings are opened for protection under the Law on Asylum and Refugees at the critical time of the census. (2) The usual resident population of the Republic of Bulgaria shall consist of the numbered persons under para. 1, t. 1... 5............................................................................ (3) The persons under para. 1, t. 6 "8" are persons present on a temporary basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u70	Thank you. I shall open the deliberations under art. 12. There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u71	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u72	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Art. 13, art. Article 14 15. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u73	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16 as in t. 1 the words "country" shall be replaced by "country" and "country" shall be replaced by "country" and "country" shall be replaced by "country" and "country" shall be replaced by "country" shall be replaced by "country" and
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 16 as in t. 1 the words "country" shall be replaced by "country" and "country" shall be replaced by "country" and "country" shall be replaced by "country" and "country" shall be replaced by "country" shall be replaced by Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u75	"Department II" "Data". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u76	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of the importer on the name of Section II. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The proposal for the name of the Section shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u77	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) For persons the following data shall be collected: 1. own, fatherly and last name; 2. a single civil number (GNN) for Bulgarian citizens and for foreigners who received a residence permit in the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 23, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as foreigners who received refugee status and humanitarian status under the Law on Asylum and Refugees; 3. personal number of a foreigner (LCH) for foreigners who have received a residence permit under art. 23, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. personal number (LH) of a citizen of the European Union; 5. date of birth; 6. sex; 7. links between the members of the household and the family; 8. permanent address and current address; 9. citizenship; 10. residence status; 11. country and place of birth; 12. marital status; 13. number of live births; 14. degree of completed education; 15. literacy; 16. participation in education; 17. ethnic group; 18. religion; 19. mother tongue; 20. the status of employment of the economic active or inactive; 21. profession and/or position; 22. name of the undertaking or organisation and economic activity of the legal unit; 23. location of the workplace or of the educational establishment; 24. type of transport used for travel to the workplace or to the educational establishment; 25. internal and external migration of persons; 26. degree of permanent reduced performance or degree of disability. (2) For the persons referred to in art. 12, para. 1, t. 6 "8" data shall be collected under the heading. One, six, eight, and nine. (3) The questions concerning the data under para. 1 shall be contained in the household census card and the persons therein. (4) Information on number of persons and persons temporarily present shall be collected for households.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u78	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 17. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u79	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) For residential buildings the following data shall be collected: 1. address of the building; 2. type of building; 3. location of the building; 4. year of construction; 5. type of construction; 6. number of floors; 7. presence of an elevator; 8. number of dwellings in the building; 9. presence of other objects in the building that are used for non-residential purposes; 10. accessibility of the building. (2) The questions concerning the data under para. 1 is contained in the number card for a residential building. (3) For residential buildings data shall also be collected for the geographical coordinates of the entrances of the building.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u80	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 18. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u81	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19, as in para. 1, t. 6 the words the rooms/rooms shall be replaced by the rooms and/or rooms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u82	Thank you. Are there any speeches on this article? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 19, as in para. 1, t. 6 the words the rooms/rooms shall be replaced by the rooms and/or rooms. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u83	"Chapter 4" "Data The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 4 and the text of the importer for art. Art. 20, Art. 21. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u85	"Chapter 5" - Preparing and holding the census. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. Section I "Preparation of the Census." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u86	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five and for the name of Section I. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u87	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The National Statistical Institute shall organise, coordinate, conduct and supervise a preliminary search for the collection and updating of information on residential buildings and addresses for the purpose of zoning the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria into control areas and counting areas and for the compilation of counting lists. (2) The advance approach shall be carried out no later than 4 months before the critical time of the census. (3) The municipal counting committees shall participate in the preparation and conduct of the preliminary tour of the territory of the municipality concerned. (4) The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency shall assist in the implementation of the preliminary search activities by providing the NSI with up-to-date spatial data and metadata for them from the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers for the purpose of zoning and georeference of the addresses. (5) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall assist in the implementation of the preliminary tour activities by providing the NSI with the current digital orthophoto map for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and metadata for the map for the purpose of zoning and georeference of the addresses.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u88	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 22. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23, as the word "country" is replaced by "territory of the Republic of Bulgaria."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u90	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 23, with the editorial amendment. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u91	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24, as in para. 3 the words of the municipalities shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 24, as in para. 3 the words of the municipalities shall be deleted. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u93	Section II.................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u94	Are there any speeches? There are no speakers. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Section II and the text of the importer as art. 25. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u95	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u96	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. Art. 26, Art. 27. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u98	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 28. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 29. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, as in para. 2 the word "Site" is replaced by "Internet page."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u102	Is there anyone who would like to speak? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 30, as in para. 2 the word "Site" is replaced by "Internet page." Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u103	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The regional structures of the Ministry of Interior shall assist the controllers and the censusers in carrying out their duties. (2) The managers or chairmen of the board of directors of buildings or separate entrances under floor property regime, as well as the natural or legal persons to whom powers have been conferred by a board of directors or a manager of floor property under the Law on the management of floor property, shall also cooperate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u104	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 31. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u106	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 32. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u107	Section III "Conduction of the Census." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u108	Are there any comments on the name of the section? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u109	They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u110	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 33, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u112	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u115	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 35, supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u116	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) The data referred to in art. 17, para. 1 and 4 shall be provided by the counted persons. (2) Exception shall be made only for: 1. minor members of the household; 2. placed under interlock; 3. seriously ill persons; 4. servicemen involved in international operations and missions outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. temporarily absent persons. (3) For the persons under para. 2 the data shall be provided by the head of the household or by another member of the household, by the trustee or guardian. (4) The data referred to in art. 18, para. 1 and under art. 19th para. 1 shall be made available by the head of the household or by another member of the household.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u117	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 36. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u118	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u119	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 37, supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u120	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u121	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 38, supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u122	"Chapter 6" - Privacy of the data and protection of the mystery. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u123	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six, supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u124	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u125	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 39, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u127	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 40, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u128	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u129	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 41, supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u130	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u131	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 42, supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u132	"Chapters 1 and 2 of this Annex shall be reported in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u133	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 7, supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u134	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43 as in para. 1 the word "Site" is replaced by "Site."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u135	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 43 with the amendment proposed by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 80, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u136	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u137	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 44, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u138	..Chapter Eight....sustaining. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u139	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Eight, supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u140	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u141	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 45, supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u142	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u143	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 46, supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u144	"Chapter 9" "Administrative Penal Provisions." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u145	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Ninth, supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u146	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: Art. 47. A person refusing to provide a censuser with the data under art. A fine of BGN 160 is punishable by a fine of BGN 17 "19."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u147	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 47, which the Commission proposes. Vote 78 MPs: 75 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u149	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 48, supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 71, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u151	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 49, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 77 against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u152	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u153	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 50, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 76 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u154	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u155	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 51, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 76 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u156	"Additional provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u157	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u158	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... (1) From the beginning of the preliminary round until the countdown is completed, administrative and territorial changes shall be prohibited. (2) For the period under para. 1 The Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works sends daily information about changes in the classification of localization units.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u159	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I'm announcing a 30-minute suspension of the National Assembly's work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u160	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, we could continue with the presentation of the version of § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... For the purposes of this law: 1. "Anonymised data' are separate statistical records which, according to existing best practices, have been amended to limit the risk of directly or indirectly identifying the statistical units to which they relate. 2. It is a study aimed at collecting data on the average time spent on various activities in their daily lives. 3. The persons who are absent for a period of less than one year are persons who usually live in or outside the census, but at the critical moment of the census they are absent from their homes for a period less than one year and are located in the territory of another locality in the Republic of Bulgaria or outside the country due to holidays, visits to friends and relatives, rest, work, medical treatment, religious worship and others. 4. The participants are persons who usually live in or outside the Republic of Bulgaria, but at the critical time of the census are located in the numbered dwelling, hotel, rest station, medical establishment and others for a period less than one year due to holidays, visits to friends and relatives, rest, work, medical treatment, religious worship and others. 5. The geographical longitude, latitude and altitude information in a geographical coordinate system used to determine the location of a given object on the ground is geographical coordinates. 6. The head of the household is the person the members of the household designate as such or provide the basic means of existence. 7. Housekeeping is one person who lives in a private apartment, room or part of a room and has a separate budget. Households are also two or more persons who live in one dwelling or part of a dwelling and have a common budget, whether they have or have no relation. 8. The residence is distinct and independent from the point of view of the construction site, which is suitable for living, consisting of one or more premises (residential and auxiliary) and has one or more separate exits of a publicly accessible part (stairway, common corridor, yard or directly on the street). 9. The Housing Fund is residential premises and buildings, as well as housing conditions and the connection between the population and the residential premises at national, regional and local level. 10. A residential building is a building that, by initial construction or by conversion, is intended for permanent residence and consists of one or more dwellings that occupy at least 60 percent of its area. 11. The data shall be reported for each statistical unit, including personal data. 12. A person without citizenship is a person who is not considered to be a citizen of any State in accordance with its legislation. 13. "Material insurance and services" are movable and immovable objects or domestic services used by the household. 14. The population is the national, regional and local population at its usual residence at the critical time of the census. 15. A non-residential building is a building that is not intended for permanent habitation. It can be production, administrative (public service), resort and other. 16. It is the place where a person usually spends the daily rest period regardless of temporary absence because of vacations, visits to friends and relatives, rest, work, medical treatment, or religious worship. 17. Census lists are the addresses of homes and buildings in the counting sections designated for a visit by the censusers. 18. The building is a permanent building consisting of residential spaces intended for human habitation, or conventional dwellings intended for seasonal use or for a second dwelling or which are uninhabited. 19. A mixed-use building is a building which, according to its initial construction, includes residential and non-residential sites. 20. The Statistic Toolkit is a collection of all the documents and technical resources necessary for the preparation, organization and implementation of the census. 21. The school is each school under the Law on pre-school and school education and under the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. Please vote. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. (1) This law shall ensure the application of Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/712 of 20 April 2017 laying down the reference year and the statistical and metadata programme for population and housing censuses, as provided for in Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OB, L 105/1 of 21 April 2017.). (2) The provisions of this Law shall apply subject to the requirements of the implementing acts adopted by the European Commission under Regulation (EC) No 763/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 on population and housing censuses (OJ L 218/14 of 13 August 2008.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u164	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 3. They voted 84 MPs: 83 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u165	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u166	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall vote on the name of the importing division supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u167	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, i.e. 1 is amended as follows: "1." Imports for approval by the Council of Ministers The Census Program within three months of the entry into force of this law;
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u168	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4 with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u169	The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. The Prime Minister, on a proposal from the President of the NSI, shall appoint the Central Commission for the census within two months of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u170	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text according to the Commission proposal. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u171	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u172	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. With this we completed the examination of the seventh point of the National Assembly's Work Programme. Let's move on to point eight: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Importer: Council of Ministers. You are welcome to present the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I may, a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 please allow Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs Maria Kaleva Head of Department at the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u174	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 87 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u175	The Law on Railway Transport is amended and supplemented by the Law on Railway Transport. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u176	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u177	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Paunov: Before § 1 is created a new §...: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new t. is created. 4. "4." This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2. Previously on "T." 4 "9" becomes p.a., respectively. 5.. 10..... 10............................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Paunov: Before § 1 is created a new §...: §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 is The Railway Administration Executive Agency shall have the power of an audit body in the rail transport of the infrastructure manager, service facilities operators and railway carriers implementing a public passenger service obligation contract. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u178	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is why these two proposals should not be supported because two new paragraphs are being proposed, which are extremely important at the beginning of the Bill. One concerns state policy, its development and coordination under Regulation of the European Parliament 2016/2338, which does not need to be cited, as this thing is already laid down in art. 5 in general and the Minister conducts state policy in this direction. As regards the second proposal, which relates to the railway administration and concerns mainly its power, in art. 6 very comprehensive and precise are defined all the powers of the railway administration and this is something that is unnecessary and aggravates the text. Therefore, our proposal is that these two texts should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. They voted 91 MPs: 10, against 62, abstention 19. The first proposal is not accepted. I put to the vote the second proposal of the MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, which is again not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 8 against 70 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u181	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 a comma is finally placed and added to the service facilities and to the services provided therein. (b) To be created t. 2a: It's 2a. supervise the fulfilment of the requirements under which the licence or authorisation has been issued during their period of validity; c) create new t. 5... It's five o'clock. issue authorisations for placing in service the Control-Command and Signalling subsystems on railways, energy and infrastructure subsystems building the national rail system, under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 5, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. issue, renew, amend and withdraw authorisations for placing on the market of vehicles and authorisations for types of vehicles under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 5, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. supervise the compliance of the interoperability constituents with the essential requirements defined by the ordinance under art. 5, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 8. issue, renew, amend and withdraw a safety certificate to the railway infrastructure manager or a single safety certificate to railway undertakings under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 29, para. 3, p. 1; 9. issue, renew, amend and withdraw a certificate to persons responsible for the maintenance of vehicles and a certificate to a person who performs maintenance functions of vehicles under conditions and in order specified by the ordinance under art. 29, para. 3, p. 1; 10. issue, renew, amend and withdraw train driving licences pursuant to Commission Regulation (EU) No 36/2010 of 3 December 2009 on Community models for train driving licences, additional certificates, certified copies of supplementary certificates and applications for train driving licences pursuant to Directive 2007/59/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OB, L 13/1 of 19 January 2010).) 11. monitor or propose changes to the safety regulatory framework, including the system of national rules; 12. supervise the railway infrastructure manager and railway undertakings in order to comply with their obligation to apply the safety management system continuously; (d) shall be established. 13: "13." supervise the persons responsible for the maintenance of vehicles and persons performing maintenance functions to comply with their obligation to apply the maintenance management system continuously; (e) Previously on 5 "9" becomes c. 14.. 18; (f) the current t. 10 becomes t. 19 and in it after the words "railway services" a comma shall be placed and added to the activities of the railway infrastructure managers under art. 116, para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (g) the so-called t. 11 and 12 are respectively t. 20 and 21. 2. In para. 2 the words "locomotive drivers' shall be replaced by "train driving licences'. 3. A new para is being created. 3: scruitment of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and 1. National register of vehicles complying with the common specifications for national vehicle registers pursuant to an act of the European Commission; 2. Register of authorisations for placing in service of stationary subsystems; 3. Register of authorisations for placing on the market of vehicles with an area of use of the railway infrastructure of the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. The creation of para. 4. The functions under para. 1 shall not be transferred to a railway infrastructure manager, railway undertaking or a public procurement body in railway transport. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u182	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the wording of § 1 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u183	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 1 is inserted in Chapter 1. 8b: Art. 8b. The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall enter into a cooperation agreement with the European Union Railway Agency in accordance with art. Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the European Union Agency for Railways and repealing Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 (OJ L 138/1 of 26 May 2016).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u184	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 2. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u186	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 3 by text of an importer supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u187	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Pawnov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The activities referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the following conditions: 1, t. 3 - 7 are the main functions of the National Railway Infrastructure Company and cannot be transferred. (3) The manager of the railway infrastructure shall have organisational and management independence in relation to the functions under para. 2. 2. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 4 and 5. 3. The creation of para. 6: The National Railway Infrastructure Company is not entitled to provide loans to railway undertakings. Railway undertakings are not allowed to provide loans to National Company Railway Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u188	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 4. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u190	Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposal for § 5? I can't see. We are voting on the text of § 5 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u191	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u192	Are there any statements on the text proposed by the importer for § 6? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 6 supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 91, against and abstention 91.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u193	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u194	Are there any statements on the proposed text for § 7? I won't. We vote on § 7 of the importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal for a text of § 7 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u195	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Paunov: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 8: 1. The introductory sentence is amended as follows: 29 the following amendments are made and additions are made:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. 2. A t is created. 1: "1." In para. 1 in the second sentence, the text after the word "the Member States" until the end of the sentence is replaced by "the multimodal corridors" as defined by Regulation (EU) 1315/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u196	Are there any speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Why shouldn't colleagues' proposals be supported? Because this represents a change in para. 1 of art. 29, which replaces the text after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why shouldn't we support them? There are two reasons. The first is that in this way the scope of the lines, which are currently railway expressways, is significantly narrowed down to one reason. The second reason is that these railway highways, as early as the end of 2009, adopted amendments to the Law, enabling us to more favorably alienate objects of national importance, such as railway highways. In this way, we have given the possibility of faster construction of both motorways and railway highways. I believe that this version will limit certain lines and that more slowly and less favorable estrangement procedures can be carried out. I therefore propose that the Members of the National Assembly do not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u198	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there any lines to the statement? There are no requests for lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of MPs Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 8 against 63, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 8 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: For 91, against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal for the wording of § 8 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u199	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Paunov: ..................................................................... 3 in the text of the created new para. 4 in the sentence first, the words "the work plan' shall be replaced by "the train traffic chart', and the pronoun "the job' shall be replaced by "the work plan', which shall be replaced by "the work plan'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the 1. In para. 1 the words "vehicles holding a safety certificate" shall be replaced by "vehicles" under art. 37, para. 7 holding a single safety certificate. 2. In para. The 2th sentence is first amended as follows: The railway carriers under para. 1 shall be entitled to access railway infrastructure and service facilities for the operation of all types of rail passenger and freight services under fair, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions. 3. Alinei 3 s 6 are amended as follows: The railway undertakings referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article shall not be subject to any of the following conditions: 1 are entitled to carry passengers between railway stations located in Member States of the European Union, including between railway stations located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) The infrastructure capacity applicant on a specific route for carrying passengers under para. 3 informs about the planned service National Company Railway Infrastructure and Railway Administration Executive Agency and not later than 18 months before the entry into force of the working schedule to which the request for capacity relates. The Railway Administration Executive Agency shall notify within 10 days each competent authority which has entrusted public passenger rail services on this route and any railway undertaking implementing a public rail service contract on the route of the planned service. (5) A railway undertaking which does not have a licence to carry out freight transport shall be entitled to access the first station of the railway infrastructure necessary to carry out the activities of companies and undertakings under art. 2, p. 3. (6) Access under para. 5 shall be carried out in the case of a single safety certificate, an insurance contract, a liability contract and a contract with the railway infrastructure manager.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u200	Are there any speeches on the proposals for the text of the paragraph? Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech relates to the proposal of colleagues Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. As it became clear just now, in § 9, para. 4 It is clearly stated that the infrastructure capacity on a specific route for the transport of passengers under para. 3 informs about the planned service National Company "Railway Infrastructure" and the Executive Agency "Railway Administration" no later than 18 months before the entry into force of the working plan..... Thus, the provision concerns the obligation of the infrastructure capacity applicant to notify the NRIC and the Railway Administration Executive Agency of its specific work schedule with a view to carrying out its planned service within 18 months prior to its entry into force, and its work schedule will become part of the train traffic schedule. In this regard, I believe that the proposal should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u202	Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other comments on the proposed texts? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 6, against 67, abstentioned 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9 by an amendment proposed by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u203	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 31a: Art. 31a. (1) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency may limit the right of access to the carriage of passengers between railway stations located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including by an alternative route, where such transport is already carried out on the basis of a public rail service contract and may lead to a violation of the economic equilibrium of the contract. The economic equilibrium assessment shall be carried out under the conditions and in accordance with Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1795 of 20 November 2018 establishing a procedure and criteria for carrying out an economic equilibrium assessment in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (OB, L/5 294 of 21 November 2018.), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1795. (2) The Railway Administration Executive Agency shall carry out an objective economic analysis on the criteria set out in Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1795 to determine whether the economic equilibrium of the contract has been compromised. (3) The analysis under para. 2 shall be made following a request to the Railway Administration Executive Agency, submitted within one month of receipt of the information on the planned passenger service under art. 31, para. 4. (4) The request under para. 3 can be made from: 1. the authority which has awarded the public service contract; 2. the manager of the railway infrastructure; 3. the railway carrier implementing the public transport service contract. (5) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency may request additional information from the applicant under para. 3 within one month of its entry, setting a time limit for the submission of such information. The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall start consultations with all stakeholders under para. 4 within one month of receipt of the request. The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall deliver a reasoned decision on the request determining whether the economic equilibrium of the public transport service contract has been compromised within six weeks of receipt of all the necessary information. (6) The Railway Administration Executive Agency shall inform all interested parties of the decision under para. 5 and conditions under which its review may be requested. (7) Within one month of notification of the decision under para. The review may be requested by: 1. the authority which has awarded the public service contract; 2. the manager of the railway infrastructure; 3. the railway carrier implementing the public transport service contract; 4. the railway carrier which has requested access under art. 31, para. 4. (8) Based on the decision under para. 5 The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall deliver a reasoned decision on a planned passenger service under art. 31, para. 4. (9) The decision under para. 8 may be appealed before the administrative court concerned under the administrative procedure code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u204	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of § 10 with a text supported by the Commission and the version proposed. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u205	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Paunov: screated § 10a: 10a. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 31b: Art. 31b. In order to protect the public interest in the conditions of a liberalised transport market for passengers, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall be set up a Coordination Council on Public Railway and Bus Transport for the Coordination of the Provisions of this Law, the Road Transport Act and the Mobility Package. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u206	Are there any speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the paragraph offered to us, in addition to being new, it also offers a new philosophy in the Railway Transport Act. What is it? It is proposed to set up a Coordination Council to coordinate all activities of regulations, legal acts, as well as the units managed in road and rail transport. It is proposed that this Advisory Council solves problems which are problems of public transport and which fall within the competence of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. That is, if they want someone to run such a Coordination Council or if they want to rule, appear in elections, win the elections, make a government, appoint a minister and manage the sector concerned. [[(Applause from GERB, shouts: "Bravo, Valkov!" Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] This thing is either a replacement or a new reading of the Railway Transport Act. Moreover, in art. 45, para. 1 of the Law on Administration is given an opportunity to the Minister for Problems that need or are of his competence to set up an Advisory Council for their Resolution. I do not see any point in the proposal that has been made by my fellow Members, and I call on my fellow Members to vote against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u208	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are there any lines? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs to create a new § 10a. Please, voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: 13, against 63, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u209	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the word "Sertificate' is replaced by a single certificate. 2. In para. 3 is added at the end of the change. There is a technical error, Mr. Chairman, I will read it as it should be: "2." In para. 3 is added at the end when the legislation in force is changed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u210	In the report is written a change in change, i.e. a repetition. You reported the correct reading:.. in the event of a change in the legislation in force................................................................................................. I repeat, to make it clear to all MPs. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission in the version proposed by the Commission for § 11. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u211	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the word "Sertification' is replaced by the single certificate "Sertification'. 2. In para. 3 the word "Sertification" is replaced by the single certificate "Sertification" and the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u212	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 12. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u213	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, i.e. 4 concerning para. 11 the word "instantly" is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u214	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 13 in accordance with the text of the importer supported by the Commission, with the Appendix to the Report, which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 the word "immediately" to be deleted. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u215	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "trader" is a comma and is added to "supplied" in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the words "morning train' (EMB) shall be replaced by "mortar train'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u216	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text proposed for § 14, by text of an importer, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u217	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u218	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of § 15 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u219	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words "al." the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 45, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In cases where the person under para. 1 assigns part of the maintenance functions to another contractor, it shall be subject to a voluntary certification system for the performance of maintenance functions. The certificate of a person performing maintenance functions shall be issued by the Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency after submitting an application to the Railway Administration Executive Agency. The terms and procedure for issuing a certificate under art. 46, para. 1 and a certificate under para. 3 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 3. 29, para. 3, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. A new para is being created. 4. When the performer under art. 45, para. 5 does not hold a certificate of a person performing maintenance functions, the person under art. 45, para. 1 apply evidence of how all requirements in respect of functions which it decides to assign to the contractor under art. 45, para. 5. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it after the words the application is added by para. 1 and para. The certificate of maintenance functions shall be added after the words "the certificate for maintenance of vehicles" and after the words "the certificate for maintenance functions." 5. A new para is being created. 6: In the event of deficiencies and irregularities found in the application under para. 1 or para. 3 or in the documents attached to them, the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall require a single removal of incompleteness and irregularities and/or the provision of additional information or documents by setting a time limit of not less than 10 working days and not more than four months. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7. 7. The creation of para. 8. The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall deliver a decision on the application under para. 1 or 3 no later than four months after the applicant has provided all the necessary information and documents, including the additional information required under para. 6................................................ 8. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 9 and
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u220	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 16. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u221	Proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov and Claudia Gancheva according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: ....17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46b, t. 1 letter "in" the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u222	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 17. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposal to create a new § 17 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u223	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become §18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 1, t. 1 all over the word "Sertification" is replaced by the single certificate "Sertification" and the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u224	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal on the text of an importer in an version proposed by the Commission for § 17, which becomes § 18. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u225	Proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Paunov: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man sevena. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 para. 4 is amended as follows: The provision of public transport services shall be subject to the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2016/2338 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 amending Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 on the opening of the market for inland passenger transport services by rail. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u226	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Tanev. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal that fellow Members are talking about, in fact, cites a regulation which is amending and is actually part of Regulation No 1370/2007 on the opening up of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail. The current text of art. 54, para. 4 should be maintained as it refers to the attached Regulation, namely Regulation 1370/2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u228	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs to create § 17a, not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 13, against 61, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u229	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become §19.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u230	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the import text for § 18, which becomes § 19, supported by the Commission. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u231	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become §20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u232	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the import text for § 19, which becomes § 20, supported by the Commission. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u233	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20, which shall become §21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115a The following amendments and additions are made: 1 C. 1 the words "the railway infrastructure and the rolling stock' are deleted. 2. In para. 3 words the order under art. 5, t. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. In para. 5 after the words 4. In para. 6 after the words 5. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: seventh person to be evaluated under para. A designated body for carrying out an assessment under national rules may also be a requested authority under para. 6 after having received permission under art. 115b, para. 2. In this case, the entire verification process for putting in service stationary subsystems or for placing on the market of vehicles may be carried out by one conformity assessment body.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u234	Are there any comments on the reported text, which is an importer's proposal in the Commission's version? There are no speakers. We are going to vote on the text of the importer and the proposed version of the Commission for § 20, which becomes § 21. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u235	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become §22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 is created t. 10: ..10. meets the requirements of para. 4 and of the ordinance under art. 5, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') 2. A new para is being created. 5.. The person applying for a conformity assessment authorisation under para. 1 or 2 shall submit a written application to the Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency, indicating the activities and subsystems, for the performance of the assessment of which authorisation is sought and whether it will benefit subcontractors. The application shall be accompanied by the documents set out in the ordinance under art. 5, t. 2. The documents under para. 3, p. 7 and 8 and an accreditation document under para. 4, issued by the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service, are received by the Executive Agency of the Railway Administration. (6) Within one month of submission of the application under para. 5 The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall inform the applicant that the documentation is complete or requires additional information. In exceptional circumstances, this period may be extended by up to two weeks, notified to the applicant. (7) In case in the application under para. 5 or in the documentation annexed to it, irregularities or deficiencies shall be identified; the applicant shall be given a period for their removal or for the provision of additional information not less than 10 working days and not more than the period under para. 8. Where additional documents under para. are required 4, the period for granting them shall not be less than the time limit for the decision of the accreditation body. (8) After receiving a report from the Railway Administration Executive Agency, the authority under para. 1 and 2 shall give a reasoned decision on the application within a period of not more than six months after the submission of all the documentation and relevant information, including those requested under para. 7. The decision shall be communicated to the person applying for a licence. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 9. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 10 and in it, the words "For issue' shall be replaced by "On submission of an application for issue'. 5. Previously on AMC's... 7, 8 and 9 become respectively. 11, 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u236	Are there any statements on the text proposed for § 21? There are no requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the text of an importer proposed for § 21 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 22. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u237	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Article 115d is amended as follows: Art. 115. (1) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall grant authorisation to put into service the Control-Command and Signalling subsystems on the railway, energy and infrastructure subsystems building the railway system on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria after submitting an application to the Railway Administration Executive Agency. (2) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall issue authorisations for placing on the market of vehicles and authorisations for types of vehicles with an area of use, after submitting an application through the one-stop shop established pursuant to Article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/796. (3) In the event of finding irregularities and incompleteness in the application under para. 1 or 2 or in the documentation attached to it, within one month of receipt of the request by the applicant, the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall require a single removal of irregularities and/or the provision of additional information or documents by setting a time limit of not less than 10 working days and not more than four months. (4) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall issue an authorisation under para. 1 or 2 or inform the applicant of its refusal decision within four months of receipt of the complete information from the applicant, including the additional information required under para. 3. The terms and procedure for issuing authorisations under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 5, t. 2. (5) Authorisation for placing on the market of a vehicle and authorisation for vehicle types whose area of use is in the Republic of Bulgaria and in one or more Member States of the European Union shall be issued by the European Union Agency for Railways following an application through the single-stop shop system pursuant to Article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/796. Authorisation for placing on the market of a vehicle and authorisation for vehicle types with an area of use of the railway infrastructure of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be issued by the European Union Railway Agency where specified in the application. (6) The Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall by reasoned decision refuse to grant authorisation under para. 1, refuse to grant an authorisation or withdraw an authorisation under para. 2. The Agency for Railways of the European Union shall refuse to grant authorisation or withdraw the authorisation under para. 5. (7) The decision of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Railway Administration for refusal or withdrawal under para. 6 may be appealed by the applicant before the administrative court concerned under the Administrative Code of Procedure. (8) The decision of the European Union Agency for Railways to refuse or withdraw under para. 6 may be appealed by the applicant before the Board of Appeal established pursuant to Article 55 of Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u238	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 22 by importer, which shall become § 23. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u239	According to § 23 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Pawnov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 1: The safety regulatory framework consists of European Union legislation and national legislation laying down the safety requirements of the rail system as a whole, the application of these requirements, as well as the interaction between railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and other actors in the national rail system and in the European Union rail system. 2. So far, the Al. 1 becomes para. 2 and in it the words "Safety rules and requirements for participants' shall be replaced by the safety regulatory framework "Safety rules'. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 " 4" became respectively. 3... 5........................................................................... 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: The main elements of the safety management system shall be determined by the regulation under art. 29, para. 3, p. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u240	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 23 by importer, which shall become § 24. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u241	According to § 24 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev, Ivan Ivanov, Yordan Mladenov, Lalo Kirilov and Alexander Pawnov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115f The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Secretary" is added, after the words "The railway undertakings are comma," the words "Secretary of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" are replaced by the order of art. 29, para. 3, p. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 2 the word "Sertificaire' shall be replaced by the single certificate and the words "the authorisation to be put into service' for the relevant "sertificate' and the comma after them shall be deleted. 3. A new para is being created. 3.................................................... The single safety certificate for railway undertakings operating in the Republic of Bulgaria and in one or more Member States of the European Union or, at the request of the applicant, the single safety certificate of the railway undertaking operating in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be issued by the Agency for Railway Transport of the European Union. (4) The infrastructure manager shall apply for the issue, renewal or amendment of the safety certificate to the Railway Administration Executive Agency. (5) The railway undertaking shall apply for the issue, renewal or amendment of a single safety certificate through the single-stop shop service system established pursuant to Article 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/796. (6) When finding irregularities in the application under para. 4 or 5 or in the documentation attached to it, the Railway Administration Executive Agency shall require a single removal of irregularities and/or the provision of additional information or documents, setting a time limit of not less than 10 working days and not more than four months. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The single safety certificate shall be issued for a period of up to five years and shall be renewed following an application by the railway undertaking. The safety certificate shall be valid for five years and shall be renewed following an application from the infrastructure manager. 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The Agency shall ensure compliance with the obligation of railway undertakings or infrastructure managers to use a safety management system by carrying out surveillance activities which include checks on the implementation by railway undertakings and infrastructure managers of the safety management system. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: The single safety certificate and the safety certificate shall be renewed in whole or in part in the case of: 1. significant changes to the safety regulatory framework; 2. a substantial change of the type or scope of operation of the railway undertaking; 3. a substantial change of infrastructure, signalling or energy subsystems or the principles of their operation and maintenance. 7. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 10 and in it, the words "the request for the issue of a new safety certificate or a new certificate' are replaced by "the application for the renewal of a single safety certificate or a single safety certificate' and the word "the certificate' is replaced by "the single certificate'. 8. They're creating an al. 11 and 12: The single safety certificate under para. 1 shall be valid without extension of the field of activity and for railway undertakings operating next to stations in neighbouring Member States of the European Union with similar network characteristics and similar operational rules where those stations are close to the border and in coordination with the competent national safety authorities. Such coordination may take place on a case-by-case basis or be made in a cross-border agreement between Member States or between national safety authorities. (12) A railway carrier from a third country outside the European Union may reach a border station in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without holding a single safety certificate, subject to an existing cross-border agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the neighbouring third country ensuring an appropriate level of safety.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u242	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 24 by importer, which shall become § 25. Vote 82 MPs: 81 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u243	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26, as in para. 1 Everywhere the words can refuse shall be replaced by the words shall also be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words shall be replaced by the words
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u244	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25 with the editorial amendments proposed by the Commission. Paragraph 25 becomes Paragraph 26. They voted 89 MPs: 89, with no objection and no abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u245	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u246	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 82, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u247	Proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov, Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov and Claudia Gancheva according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 115l, para. 1 words "al." 5, t. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u248	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 28, with a text of § 28 as presented by the rapporteur. They voted 87 MPs: 87, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u249	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u250	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 84, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u251	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para 2: (a) c. 1 after the words the railway undertakings shall be comma and the service facilities shall be added; (b) c. 2 after the word "Supports', a comma shall be added and a comma shall be added and a comma shall be added after the words "Supports of passengers and freight' and a comma shall be added and a comma shall be added and a comma shall be added and an inquiry of accidents, accidents and situations close to accidents shall be added to lines of internal railway transport under art. 2, p. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (c) c. 3 after the words "railway infrastructure' the service facilities shall be added; (d) c. 7 the words "the state of use of the railway infrastructure' shall be replaced by the reference document for the rail network. 2. In para. 3 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" or by a person responsible by him shall be replaced by the Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u252	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 28 by importer, which shall become § 30. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u253	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u254	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 31 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 87, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u255	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u256	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 32 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 86, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u257	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-21.u258	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 33 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 85 MPs: 85, with no objection and no abstention. The offer is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, this was the last vote for today. The next regular plenary session is on 22 February at 9:00. We're adjourned.
