ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'll read you a few messages, colleagues: Distribution of bills received from 10 December 2019: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Technical Research to Products. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead; Draft amending and supplementing the Independent Financial Audit Act. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Message: On 6 December 2019 the National Assembly was provided with the draft and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic: By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was submitted to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Markov, for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are sending a Jubilee 30 years of democracy to Eastern Europe and, thank God, and to Bulgaria. Thirty years since that 19 August, when a pan-European picnic in the city of Chopron, Hungary, opened the border between Hungary and Austria and fell the first brick from the Berlin Wall. Shortly before that, Viktor Orban had cried out: "The Soviet tanks should leave the country! " September 11th, when the foreign ministers of Austria and Hungary opened the border and thousands of East Germans passed behind the Iron Curtain. That was the October that came, when tens and hundreds of thousands went out into the streets of Leipzig and Dresden to chant We are the people! and while Mr. Cole the Grand Uniter of Germany, together with Gensher, were in Poland, the Berlin Wall was overthrown. In Romania, Hungarian students in Timisoara, November, defended Laszlo Tokes, the famous Catholic priest, dissident, now MEP, and were shot. In Romania, on December 25th Ceausescu was shot...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u4	...all Bulgaria watched it, and through Bulgarian television and our commentator Bereanu also watched it in Romania. In Czechoslovakia, the student procession went on a national strike. In December 1989, Mr Havel became President, the legend of Alexander Dubcek, President of Parliament. In Poland, the Socialists were blown away in 1989, the summer of the elections. In Bulgaria, on 3 November, it was the first procession of the.Eco-voting when several thousands of Sofians supported it, and the late great artist Petar Slabakov and other eco-activists petitioned the National Assembly. The windows here were open to the halls, the first chanting began. I guess that word was so scary. On November 10th, Mr. Zhivkov fell, shot down by his own party, in order to be blamed for all these 45 years. And so it came to the rally on November 18.. cold weather, sunny, big rally, many people, chanted: There was talk of perestroika, of socialist renewal and of the President's chance at that time was named President of the Republic, Petar Mladenov. The most memorable word on November 18 was of the great Radoy Ralyn: Many lied to us as a people, we did not have a soul left. So, let's get to the point. After just two days is 14 December, this great 14 December 1989, which GERB party reported as a great achievement of Bulgarian democracy, because then disorganized tens of thousands of Sofians supported the procession of Emil Koslukov, a legendary student leader, supported the living chain, surrounded by 17.30 Parliament and Sofians refused to go along the way of the perestroika. There was a scandal: "Down Article 1!" This rally surprised not only the Communist National Assembly, but also the new leaders of the SDS "SDS" was one week old. No one had asked us to come, no structures, no newspaper, no democracy, no internet, no cellphones. Everything was learned from the Free Europe and from the many leaflets of the Sofia University and the columns of the Graffa and Alabin. Neshka Robeva came out a great Bulgarian athlete, Tsvetana Maneva a great Bulgarian actress, Blagovest Sendov. I'm glad you brought me together with these people, I know them personally, and I have a friendly relationship with them. Nobody wanted to listen to them. Everyone was screaming, "Whoo!"..so Mr. Petar Mladenov and angry with the whistles would say: "It is better for the tanks to come."..Thank God, the tanks did not come, but he lied that he called Stanko and not the tanks and lies cost his head. Late in the evening came Dr. Zhelev, climbed up, I remember, with a white megaphone on the balcony of the Students' House and urged us to leave, as he was in the parliament building, talked to Mr. Lukanov, the late Mr. Lilov, to forgive them, and they made a commitment to fall Member first. We were disappointed that we were gone, but 30 years later we thought Dr. Zhelev was right. The Romanians have bled the transition, and they're not in front of us today. This is how the Bulgarian changes started. The Bulgarian Socialist Party received a double chance in the 1990s to manage two national catastrophes, unlike Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary. The first ended with the National Political Strike and the fall of Lukanov because there was no food, drugs, gasoline, we lit up like a firefly from electricity mode. And the second socialist government ended with the House being set on fire when our income became three dollars. Yesterday the Bulgarian Head of State, the esteemed President Radev, appeared in a deliberate interview on TV bTV. Personally, I expected as a person who was a constitutional judge from the presidential quota that he would at least regret these two national catastrophes, for this false start of the Bulgarian transition, for the dead hopes that in the 1990s there would be reforms. Instead, the respected head of state predicted and saw the sunset of GERB. And now, on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, let's say that sunsets and sunrises, unlike when you fly the plane and watch a live sunset or sunrise, the political group defines them as the voice of the people and God. The voice of the people and God this autumn, just a month ago, decided not to set a sunset on GERB in Sofia, not to set a sunset on GERB in Plovdiv, not to set a sunset on GERB in Veliko Tarnovo, Varna, Burgas, Stara Zagora, Gabrovo, Silistra, Shumen, Targovishte. Not having a sunset like this in Montana, where I was Tuesday, in Kyustendil, where I was on Monday. No such sunset in Kazanlak, in Nova Zagora, in Dupnitsa, in Asenovgrad, in Lovech, in Teteven and Byala, Petrich and more, and more [[Applause from GERB]] Five million Bulgarians wished to be run by mayors and local parliaments. If it's a sunset, say hello! Because I was in a lot of cities, 15 fellow Members, with the eye of a member of the Grand National Assembly, I stayed here as some kind of fossil, the last Mohican, I see a cheerful shift, a cheerful shift from such young and skilled Gerberas, and most of all, because I am not a gentleman, Gerberas, and who... [[Laughter and excitement.]] You can't see that from a plane. Anyone who doesn't believe, give the order, including the president. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm taking him to Teteven to see 22-year-old Preslava a young city councilwoman married to a guard with two children. I'll take him to Lovech to see what the district manager means. To see what an ideal lawyer means. To see the Chairman of GERB Municipal Council in Lom. It fell off my hat when I saw it, Hristina Christova. Come and see what true local leaders mean.. Mrs. Krumova, in Kyustendil, meaning a cheerful shift is coming. I made an album by Mr. Borisov. Bank-cadri 2021, 2025, 2029 This will be the sunrise of GERB and not the sunset! Speaking of article one, we have to say that thank God today, 30 years later, he's impossible. The leader GERB does not have its own parliamentary majority, ruling in a coalition with a coalition. The President is a bright representative of the opposition. There is a Constitutional Court, headed by a friend and grandson not of Stefan Savov, but a grandson of Boris Velchev, in which there is no harm, it is democracy. In fact, I'd say we're overflowing with democracy because there's no President of the Supreme Court of Cassation anywhere to read political neoliberal tirams. Come on, let's have his ha'al, and that's what we've done. Today we of GERB worship those tens of thousands who brought down Article first and promise to all of you that we will never allow it to happen again. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Mr. Tsonev, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u6	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I would like to continue what Mr. Georgi Markov said, from my very respected colleague and friend Georgi Markov. This memory of events that took place 30 years ago is extremely necessary for the Bulgarian National Assembly and society. But no holes in the memory, if that's okay. When we talk about those events and the rallies, when we talk about the 10 or 20 thousand people in Sofia and many times more in the whole country, let us not forget the Bulgarian ethnic Turks [[Elevator bell dings]] Let's not forget the Muslims in Bulgaria because, Mr. Markov, they were here in Sofia, at this rally and at the next, in battle for their rights, in battle for the totalitarian state to fall, to fall Article 1! And we must never forget it! And when the late Dr. Zhelyu Zhelev and the other actors I've had the honor of knowing, some of them being a friend, working and learning from them, I know that at the same time in prisons there were political prisoners, and those who were in the stands were not political prisoners. Some of them had fought the totalitarian regime in their own way, such as dissidents with books, with words, but others had fought the totalitarian regime. Where was Dr. Ahmed Dogan then? In prison he served a sentence, in the battle for rights and freedoms, for democracy in Bulgaria! Who mentioned the dozens of victims of totalitarian regime by Bulgarian Turks and Bulgarian Muslims? When we talk about these events, we should never miss the crucial role of the Bulgarian Muslims in the battle against the totalitarian regime! And I say this with honor and with dignity I the Orthodox Christian! [[Applause from DPS.]] We must always remember these things, because without the battle of the entire people and of an important part of it, the totalitarian regime would not be so shaken and would not fall! There would be no such events as the subsequent role, Mr. Markov, of GERB! Yes, but Bulgaria went through the 1990s. With respect to GERB and the role of GERB today [[crowd cheering, speaking indistinctly]] But Bulgaria went through all these trials without GERB! Bulgaria has defined its European and NATO time again with the role of the DPS the crucial role of both the SDS and the other parties! We should never forget that Bulgaria became a member of NATO with the governance and the crucial role of the DPS; that Bulgaria became a member of the European Union in a mandate with the management of the DPS! Do you think that if we go past these facts, the story will go past them or will it make them smaller? No, he won't! And when we speak from this tribune, and some grin or even grin that Bulgarian Muslims, that ethnic Turks are no less great patriots than everyone else, you laugh. This is patriotism because some of them gave their lives, others laid in prisons, fought a battle in democratic Bulgaria, stood firmly behind the European, NATO, democratic road of Bulgaria! It was a DPS, it's a DPS, and it's going to be a DPS! And don't replace the role of DPS! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, we continue with the first item on our agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. He will be the first to introduce us to the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u8	Colleagues, first, hall pass. I propose on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure Allowance in the Hall of Lilia Ivanova "Deputy Minister of Economy," and Emil Alexiev "Head of the Department of Consumer Politics" in the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u9	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 159 MPs: 156, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u10	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 27 November 2019, together with the Sub-Committee for Monitoring the Activities in the Area of Consumer Protection and Limiting Monopolys, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Consumer Protection Act, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy, Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Dimitar Margaritov Chairman of the Commission for Consumer Protection. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanova. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to ensure the application of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation and of Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 on cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market. The new legal framework extends the material scope of the Regulation and provides for an obligation for Member States to designate the competent authorities responsible for implementing the legislation covered by the Regulation and a single liaison office to coordinate the activities of the competent authorities. The minimum powers of the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union shall be determined by distinguishing between the powers of investigation of the competent authorities and the powers of enforcement by the competent authorities. An electronic system containing an electronic communication database and a mechanism for mutual assistance and coordinated investigations between the competent authorities of the Member States shall be established. The role of consumer associations in the implementation of consumer protection legislation shall be recognised by enabling them to make proposals and alerts to the competent control authorities for alleged breaches of legislation. In relation to the application of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, it is envisaged that the separate Chapter 9................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The competent authorities will be able to use as evidence any information provided by a competent authority to another Member State of the European Union collected under its due legal order, irrespective of the carrier on which it is stored. They will be able to exercise their powers directly to investigate infringements of consumer protection legislation. The draft law defines the Commission for Consumer Protection (SPB) as a single liaison office within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, which will have to coordinate the activities of the competent authorities for the implementation of consumer protection legislation. The CPC will also be a control body on the implementation of measures under Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 for cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market and, in the event of non-compliance, also impose certain penalties. The Law will introduce the provisions of the Law on Consumer Protection in accordance with art. 26, para. 3 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. The aim is to reduce the administrative burden by removing the paper-based requirement for documents that can be verified in the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities. In the Administrative Penal Provisions, the amounts of fines are prescribed and new types of fines have been created in relation to the failure to comply with the two Regulations. The implementation of the Draft Law does not require the creation of a new institutional structure. The bill does not entail the need for additional costs/transfers/other payments under the budget of the Ministry of Economy and other departments. In the transitional and final provisions of the Tourism Act, corresponding changes are proposed. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Following the end of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The second report belongs to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Mihowski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 27 November 2019, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act was discussed, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Lilia Ivanova, Deputy Minister of Economy, who presented the bill. Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 is hereby amended as follows: The draft law also aims to create conditions for implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market and to synchronise the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act with the provisions of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. During the presentation of the bill Mrs. Lilia Ivanova noted that Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 contains a new legal framework for the implementation of administrative cooperation between the authorities of the Member States responsible for implementing consumer protection legislation. In this regard, the Consumer Protection Act provides for the creation of a self-contained Chapter 9 The application of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 is intended to be carried out by existing administrative bodies already implementing the relevant European or national legislation covered by the Regulation. Taking into account the national legislation in force, the draft ZPA ZIP defines the competent authorities for implementing the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394: The Commission for Consumer Protection, the Executive Medicines Agency, the Communications Regulation Commission, the Directorate-General for Transport and Air Administration, the Competition Protection Commission, the Railway Administration Executive Agency and the Council for Electronic Media, the Maritime Administration Executive Agency and the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian National Bank and the Ministry of Tourism. By separate provisions of the Draft Law, the Commission for Consumer Protection is defined as a single liaison office within the meaning of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394, which will have to coordinate the activities of the competent authorities for the enforcement of the legislation on the protection of their powers to investigate infringements of consumer protection legislation provided for in art. 9 (3) of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act also provides measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market. The Regulation shall apply from 1 April 2018 and its provisions shall be binding on all Member States. Provisions are laid down under which the Commission for Consumer Protection will be a control body and will monitor its implementation and, in the event of non-compliance, also impose certain penalties. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Consumer Protection also sets out texts which waive the requirement that consumer associations submit documents which can be verified in the trade register and in the register of non-profit legal entities. The proposed change aims to bring the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act into line with the provision of art. 23, para. 6 of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Mrs. Ivanova stressed that the proposed changes to the Consumer Protection Act do not require additional budgetary resources and will not lead to the need for additional costs (transfers) other payments under the budget of the Ministry of Economy, in particular the Commission for Consumer Protection, and the budget of the other competent authorities. Ms. Andreana Atanasova said that on the part of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications support the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 11 votes for abstention and 8 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihowski. And the latest report by the Committee on Culture and Media. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u14	Madam President! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Culture and Media on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019 At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 28 November 2019, a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Consumer Protection Act was discussed, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Lilia Ivanov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova. The bill amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act aims to ensure the application of the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 by making amendments and additions to the current regulatory framework. In addition, it should create conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market and to synchronise the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act with the provisions of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 lays down the conditions under which the competent authorities in the Member States designated as responsible for the implementation of Union law on the protection of consumer interests, cooperate and coordinate their actions with each other and with the Commission in order to impose compliance with that legislation and to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and in order to improve the protection of the economic interests of consumers. The new legal framework focuses on a more efficient and coordinated application of legislation by the competent authorities of the EU Member States, in cases of cross-border trade and infringements of the legislation covered by the regulation, in more than one EU Member State, by the same trader. The Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act sets out the competent authorities for the application of consumer protection legislation falling within the scope of the regulation in accordance with the national legislation in force. The authority to perform the functions of a single liaison office and to coordinate the activities of the competent authorities within the meaning of the Regulation has also been designated. The Commission for Consumer Protection is regulated as a single liaison office which must coordinate the activities of competent authorities for the implementation of consumer protection legislation. The Council for Electronic Media is one of the eleven competent authorities with regard to the application of the provisions of Chapter Four of the Law on Radio and Television. The Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act also provides measures to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/1128 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on cross-border portability of online content services within the internal market. That Regulation shall apply from 1 April 2018 and its provisions shall be binding on all Member States. Provisions are laid down under which the Commission for Consumer Protection is the control body which must monitor its implementation and, in the event of non-compliance, also imposes certain penalties. For the purposes of the Regulation, an online content service is a service provided by a supplier in a lawful manner to subscribers in their Member State of residence, under agreed terms and online. This service is portable and represents: an audio-visual media service under provisions of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive or a service the main feature of which is the provision, access and use of works, other protected products or transmissions of broadcasting organisations, whether linearly or on request. During the meeting of the Council for Electronic Media and the Commission for Consumer Protection, support was expressed on the proposed bill. After a vote was held, the MPs of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Consumer Protection, No 902-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection, the Council of Ministers was introduced on 6 November 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 12 December 2019 140 MPs voted: 140, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Second point for today is: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES OF CONDITIONS AND OF PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES FOR A REFUNTER AND TWO MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION TO REGULATE MESSAGES FROM THE QUOTAS OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF TRANSPORT, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND MESSAGES, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Report? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u16	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 27 November 2019, a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota was discussed, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications in connection with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly (ODNS) Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota shall be elected after a public procedure has been carried out. In accordance with art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The draft rules shall be drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the committee responsible for each election. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 18 votes for the vote proposed to the National Assembly to accept the following: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 22, para. 4 of the Law on Electronic Communications and Art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission and submitting their documents. 1. Proposals for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission may be made by MPs and by parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 22, para. 2 of the Law on electronic communications for possession of Bulgarian citizenship and permanent address on the territory of the country according to Annex 2 to the Decision; (c) a detailed CV; (d) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed education; (e) documents referred to in art. 22, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Electronic Communications, certifying that the applicant has a professional qualification in the field of communications, information technology, media, economy or law; (f) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, according to a model according to Annex 3 to the Decision. 2. The circumstances of art. 22, para. 2, p. 3 of the Law on Electronic Communications shall be established by the administration of the National Assembly. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within 14 days of the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on applicants, including questions to be put to the hearing no later than three days before the hearing. 4. The mass media may send to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications questions to candidates to be referred to them during the hearing. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the following address: Sofia 1169, Pl. Prince Alexander I, No 1, Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, or by e-mail: kits@parliament.bg. 6. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the Chairman of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall listen to the applicants admitted on a list of candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission meeting the requirements of the Law on Electronic Communications drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names. 4. The proposer shall present the candidate at an exhibition within 7 minutes. 5. Each candidate shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and to demonstrate his motivation for taking up the position in an exhibition within 5 minutes. 6. The Commission shall hold debates on the proposals made. Members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission, may ask questions to the applicant within two minutes, including those received under Section II. Each candidate shall answer the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly within 10 minutes. 7. The President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall present in summary the opinions and questions received by the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no answer has been received, with the statement for each question and opinion within two minutes. 8. The applicant's reply to the opinions submitted and the questions raised on this point. 7 to 5 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall draw up a report from the hearing and submit it to the National Assembly. It shall be accompanied by a list of candidates, alphabetically arranged according to their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions for the election of Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. The procedure does not stop when there is no candidate for one of the posts. V. Election of Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the Vice-President and the two members of the Communications Regulation Commission. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When one of the candidates for the respective position refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly and he is the only candidate for the position, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of that position. 10. If there is no candidate for any of the positions, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. VI. Obligation to declare incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and a change in the declared circumstances under art. 35, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. 1. Upon completion of the selection procedure under Section V, the elected Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission shall submit a declaration of incompatibility under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in connection with art. 23 of the Law on Electronic Communications according to a template according to Annex 4 to the Decision. 2. In the event of a change in the declared circumstances of the declaration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1, the customs authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, of the one part, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the European Union, of the other part, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, of the other part, of the other part, and of the other part, of the Republic of the other part, of the other part, of the Union, of the other part, of the other part, The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly. All declarations and annexes 1 to 5 which were read are annexed to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the National Assembly quota, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly with Annexes 1 to 5. They voted 118 MPs: 115, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I will allow myself to offer you another item on the agenda. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly as point four of the following additional item. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We continue with the third item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PREVITATE A COMPANY OF A COMPANY OF THE EYES OF THE BULGARIAN MARITIME CENTRE. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will present to us Mr. Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u18	Colleagues, we're starting again with the hall pass. I propose that we support the entry of Veliko Zanchev to Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u19	Please vote on Mr. Kanev's procedure. 110 MPs voted: 105, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u20	♪ I can't believe under the Project for a decision to privatize a part of the property belonging to the Bulgarian maritime training centre................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 6 November 2019 discussed and discussed the draft decision for privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Veliko Zanchev The bill was presented by Veliko Zanchev. In accordance with art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control The National Assembly decides to privatize parts of sites included in the so-called privatization ban list. The Council of Ministers proposes that the money from the privatisation of a motor ferry will be transferred to the account of the company. In implementation of arrangements between Bulgaria, Georgia and Ukraine until its privatisation, the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet Company EAD is carrying out ferry transports along the route Varna "Ilicovsk" Batumi from the Bulgarian side through the ferry ships Odessa's Heroes and the Heroes of. After the privatization of the Ministry of Transport, the new company "Paradise of Bulgaria" PLC acquires the quality of the company "Corporate of Bulgaria" or "Corporate of Bulgaria." At the same time, in 2008 the assets of the two ferry ships were paid into the capital of the Bulgarian maritime training centre. Steps have been taken to change the international treaty and to register this centre as a shipping undertaking instead of the Bulgarian Transport Company, but no agreement is reached with the other two countries. As a way out of the situation and not only Georgian and Ukrainian vessels to operate the ferry line are agreed and contracts for long-term Bearboat Charter with the Bulgarian Ministry of Economy and Industry have been concluded. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "Paradise of BFF" AD informs that it terminates the two contracts and wishes to enter into a lease only for a ferry ship. A ferry ship was returned to the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center. The Heroes of Odessa. After a tender for the lease of Odessa's Heroes, the winner of the only candidate is denied a contract. The circumstances that require the sale of a motor ferry are as follows: - The Bulgarian maritime qualification centre is not a shipping operator and does not have a license to operate such ships and does not have the necessary resources and personnel to handle the ship; - The Bulgarian maritime training centre is not entitled to operate as an appointed enterprise from the Republic of Bulgaria under the trilateral international agreement; - there is no wish by the State to operate under the stated agreement of the motor ferry, the Heroes of Odessa. - there is no interest on the part of other traders to operate a motor ferry - reduce the loads and activity of the business. Motor Ferry supplied Odessa Heroes was purchased by Norway in 1978 for 67.5 million undenominated levs. It was acquired in 2008 by the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center (Bulgarian Sea Transport Center) by means of an ad-port contribution from the Ministry of Transport for 11.2 million. lv. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, which is incompatible with the internal market and is The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or total depreciation and depreciation amount is 6,9 million. lv. The residual value of the asset on 31 October 2019 is close to 4.3 million. lv. The useful life of the ship is up to 50 years, which means that it has approximately 9 years of effective life. The ferry is morally and physically outdated in both the hull and the engines. In addition, a new requirement prohibiting the use of marine fuels with a sulphur content of more than 0,50% shall enter into force in 2020. For the period from July 2014 to July 2019, in the process of operation of a motor ferry, the Heroes of Odessa, in the Ministry of Transport BFF, the cost of capitalized repairs of total value of 454 thousand is charged. US dollars and maintenance costs and emergency repairs 989 thousand. US dollars, which on average per year amounted to approximately 289 thousand. U.S. dollar. In April 2019, three independent valuations of the asset were made and the fair valuation of the market value was 2,74 million respectively. US dollars, 1.95 million. US dollars and 4.33 million. U.S. dollar. In the subsequent discussion, the people representative Rumen Gechev expressed disagreement with the reasons for privatization of a motor ferry.. Odessa's Heroes and said that the privatisation process will be closely monitored. Deputy Minister Zanchev said the main reason for returning the ferry to the state-owned company's assets is reduced business activity and its expensive maintenance makes it ineffective for the company's activities. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime training centre..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications Report? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u22	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime training centre "Varna," No 902-03-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2019. At its meeting held on 20 November 2019 the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined a draft decision for the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian Maritime Training Centre. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Albena Lazarova, Director of the Directorate of Concessions and Control of the Activity of Commercial Companies and Public Enterprises in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The reasons for the draft decision are stated that according to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on privatization and post-privatization control the privatisation of included in the list under art. 3, para. 1 commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital, including for their units or included in the list under para. 1 separate parts of the property of commercial companies shall be carried out on the basis of a decision adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. The need for the sale of a motor ferry, Odessa's Heroes, is derived from the fact that the Bulgarian maritime training centre................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the other hand, the Bulgarian maritime training centre is not entitled to operate as an appointed undertaking by the Republic of Bulgaria under the Agreement of 20 November 1995 between the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria and Ukraine for the joint operation of the railway ferry connection between the ports of Varna (Republic of Bulgaria) and Ilychovsk (Ukrainian) and the Agreement of 17 April 1999 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the executive power of Georgia and the cabinet of the ministers of Ukraine for the joint operation of the railway ferry connection between the port of Varna, the port of Poti/Batumi. For its purpose, the described privatisation site has no direct relationship, is not used and is not necessary for the implementation of the activities of the company "Bulgarian Maritime Training Centre" EAD, which is mainly an educational activity related to the conduct of special and additional qualification training of sailors of executive and command staff. "Bulgarian maritime training center". Varna is a commercial company listed in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The company's capital is included as a separate part of the motor ferry. The Heroes of Odessa, registered in the register of ships in the port of Varna. Another important point, noted in the reasons of the importer, is that the privatisation of the ferry ship Odessa Heroes is the only appropriate solution, as it cannot be operated according to its purpose and the preservation of the asset, without the same being able to derive revenue, will lead in the long term to aggravation of the financial situation of the Bulgarian maritime demand centre. In support of this, it is also written that at present there is no desire of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet Company to operate on the mentioned motor ferry, the Odessa Heroes, and that there is no interest from other traders to operate a motor ferry, Odessa Heroes, through its appointment under the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the state in commercial companies with state participation in capital. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes..................... 4 votes against...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, as you have heard from the reports of the two committees, there were mentioned the costs of repairs of the ship over the years, as well as the values of amortizations. As we always want a little more information and details in the Economic Commission, I will let you know this information. The Odessa Heroes has been purchased by Norway in 1978 through Water Transport and VTO Transimpex for 67 447 770 BGN, not denominated. It was acquired by the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center (Bulgarian Maritime Transport Centre) by means of an aport contribution on 28 January 2008 by the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet (Bulgarian Maritime Fleet) Company (Bulgarian Maritime Fleet) for 11 million. 200,000. lv. In general, the costs incurred for the ship could be divided into two main groups: repair costs that are capitalised and costs for emergency repairs and current support of the ship. All of them are of one primary purpose to maintain the asset fit for use at any time and meeting the international requirements of the classification organisations for safe sailing and operation. The useful life of the ship is 50 years, and that means that to date, approximately nine years of effective life remains. The ship's class certificate also refers to the year of water release and registration in 1978. The useful life is also determined on the basis of estimates obtained from independent valuers, according to which the alleged load of the asset is expected to be up to 45 years. The ferry is materially and physically outdated both with regard to the hull and with regard to the engines. All mechanisms are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain. This year, on April 22, 2019 with a protocol of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, permission was given to the Bulgarian maritime training centre In this context, a procedure for renting the ship has been carried out, with the applicant company refusing to enter into a contract for the following reasons: unclear and uncertain volumes of cargoes from and for Bulgaria in the direction of Georgia; large estimated operating costs for the operation of the ship in the light of its condition and age; expected difficulties in importing goods from third countries to Bulgaria; difficulties in hiring a crew for this type of ship and high wages requested by Bulgarian sailors; high rent requested by the ship owner; requirements for use of gas oil when transporting to European ports and a ban on the use of oil, which leads to the need of investments in scrapers or higher costs when using gas oil; difficulties in providing the guarantee for the performance of the contract by their partners from Russia. The circumstances which require the sale of the ship are that the Bulgarian Maritime Qualification Centre is not a shipping operator, does not have a license to operate such a type of ship, does not have the resources and personnel necessary to keep the ship out of service and is not entitled to operate as an appointed undertaking from the Republic of Bulgaria under the Agreement of 20 November 1995 between the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria and Ukraine for the joint operation of the railway ferry link between the ports of Varna and Ilychovsk, and the 1999 Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the executive of Georgia and the cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine for the joint operation of the railway ferry link between the port of Varna, the port of Poti/Batumi. There is no desire on the part of the Bulgarian Maritime Fleet JSC to operate on the mentioned ferry. The Heroes of Odessa. There is no interest of other traders to operate the ferry. The Heroes of Odessa. By hiring it under the Rules of Procedure and exercising the rights of the state, so that the preservation of the asset, without the same being able to derive revenue, will lead in the long term to aggravation of the company's financial situation. That is why the GERB parliamentary group will support the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, a very short line in addition. The Bulgarian maritime qualification centre surely rights you are, is not a shipping operator and does not have a license to exploit the asset in question. Only in addition: the main subject of the company's activity is training and qualification, so this privatisation is necessary to preserve the good condition of the company and is an absolutely correct move. This is the only thing I wanted to add to the fact that the company has a completely different subject-matter of activity and this asset must actually be privatised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. A hole? There won't be. Colleagues, speeches. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have decided to sell this separate part of the property to the Bulgarian Sea Transport Center. You have a political decision to do this, you have some arguments. I'm not going to go into the depth of the argument, I just want to ask you one question. We are constantly talking that the pension system in Bulgaria is underfunded, we are constantly talking that there is no money to increase pensions, to recalculate them because the budget does not allow, the money does not allow, and we constantly make sure that no money enters the Silver Fund. In the decision you're offering us, you've recorded the money to go to the trading company. It's about selling property that's on the ban list. We have a Privatization Act and post-privatization control. It's written in black and white that when such assets are sold, money must enter the Silver Fund. Come on, since you said that there is no obligation for the concession from Sofia airport to enter the Silver Fund, here at least the Law requires it. I'm asking a question: why are we doing this thing? Why do we continue to divert money that must go to the Bulgarian pensioners and to those who have labored to have Bulgaria as we have it, to neglect their interests and to make decisions that contradict the Law? Once again, I insist that the decision be written down that the money from the sale will enter the Silver Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u29	You're making an editorial amendment to the decision. Okay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I call on you to really pay attention and support the proposal of my colleague Tasco Ermenkov. It is not normal for the National Assembly with its own decisions to break the laws and violate them. One of the reasons why we are against the draft decision is, as Mr. Ermenkov said, that money does not go where it should go to the Silver Fund, but goes to the capital of the company. The other main reason why we are opposed is this. About three or four months ago, we again adopted such a draft decision, again the state, a state-owned enterprise was released from an asset, from a ship. At that time the motives were exactly the same: the ship was old, high depreciation, high maintenance costs, lack of qualified personnel and so on. This is an indication that the state-owned company, respectively, does not wish to undertake, engage and develop this asset. I ask myself one question: who is this private operator who will appear and buy the ship and why would he buy it? Most likely to profit from this ship. So can't the state-owned company win at the expense of the state, but should another asset be privatized at the expense of the state and the state be deprived of the possibility of profiting from this ferry in this case?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! It is normal for the word "privatization" to raise emotions in some parliamentary groups, but this is about a morally outdated asset, as has already been mentioned in two reports. The experts are adamant that in the coming years the life of this ship will be exhausted. The money for repair and update is more than the money that would be earned by the asset in question, so this is a very logical move. The use of the word "privatization " should not make us do any foolish and irrational things. The ship is proposed to privatize, and this is the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few words about the ship. The ferries Bulgaria had two, and the Soviet Union and then Ukraine are unique and special ships. They are for railway ferries and none in the Black Sea and in the Mediterranean region. The Bulgarian ship Odessa's Heroes, which is now being offered for privatisation, cannot be operated by the Bulgarian maritime demand centre.The Bulgarian maritime demand centre is neither built such infrastructure nor has the administrative capacity to do so, and if this is done, it would burden the Centre a great deal and would divert it from its direct functions, which have been recorded to prepare the captains and mechanics for the Bulgarian marine fleet at all. Perhaps some private operator can operate these ships as profit-making ships, as there is a need for such ferries in the Black Sea for communication with Georgia, Russia and Ukraine, and they are operated. In order to operate such a line, it takes a lot of other capital and finances to build the whole system of a ferry connection. This thing is not within the capabilities of the Bulgarian Maritime Qualification Center. It's probably in the hands of some cameraman who's already doing it. For these ships there were also fairy tales, and a dream to become the link China. Europe, through the railway in Georgia... these four ships, which were two Ukrainian and two Bulgarian. This idea, however, did not come true to the train compositions from China to Europe. And, since this ship only spends resources because it requires maintenance, it sails on water, it has a crew, there are annual charges that must be made for it that are impossible for the organization, I think it is normal to privatize it and continue its life. They'll probably exploit it for more than nine years, but it'll give the ship a chance to continue doing the work it was designed to do. These ships are also specific in that they serve a peculiarity in the difference in the width of railways in Russia, Ukraine and Europe, so indeed the ship is specialized. I hope whoever gets it finds his app and the ship keeps bringing money. I think it is right for this asset to be written off and continue to bring economic benefits even as a private medium.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-12.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First I will read to you the draft decision because it was not read, then I will put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's editorial amendment, by making it clear that the term "Silver Fund" "Silver Fund" does not have such an official terminology. The official terminology is the State Fund for guaranteeing the sustainability of the state service system. Now I suggest to you: Project! DECISION for privatization of a part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime qualification centre EAD. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and Decision No 591 of the Council of Ministers of 2019. HAS DECIDED Privatization of the following separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime qualification centre "Varna": Motor ferry - Odessa Heroes (ro-ro rail ferry) entered in the register of vessels in Varna port, with registration number 256, volume IV, p. 109, with main characteristics: gross tonnage 19 518; net tonnage 5856; maximum length 185,40 m; maximum width 26,00 m; on board height 15,20 m, with 2 main engines, type 10 K 45 GF, with total rated power 2 x 6472 kW, according to registration certificate No 12198 of 22 January 2008 of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration and with IMO number 7529964, according to SAFETY MANAGEMENT CERTIFICATE. Colleagues, I will first put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's editorial amendment the funds from the sale to the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. They voted 137 MPs: 40, against 43, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a draft decision for privatization of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime qualification centre. They voted 136 MPs: 98, against 32, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the last item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. The proposal belongs to the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB party "Mrs. Daniela Daritkova." Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Asya Atanasova Peeva as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please vote. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We've got a second one. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Evgeni Genchev Budinov as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Asya Atanasova Peeva as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please vote. Vote 120 MPs: 107 against 9, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, at the Club of National Representative children from ODZ will congratulate us with their special Christmas program of music dance performances. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. Parliamentary Control Communication on Friday 13 December 2019. Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need for investments in infrastructure in the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for. Questions and Questions Answered: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer a question from the MPs Desislav Chukolov and Pavel Shopov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer five questions from the MPs Milko Nedyalkov. Two questions; Dora Yankova, Krum Zarkov and Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Slavcho Atanasov and Valentina Naydenova and one question from the MP Dora Yankova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer seven questions from the MPs Anton Kutev, Christian Vigenin, Mikhail Hristov, Krasimir Yankov, two questions; Krum Zarkov and Boryana Georgieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer seven questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Stoilov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Mihail Hristov, Alexander Matsurev, Desislava Todorova and Elena Pesheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer a question from the MP Krum Zarkov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer eight questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova - three questions; Anton Kutev, Krum Zarkov, Andon Donchev, Milen Mihov and Georgi Mihailov, and one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva will answer a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Anastas Popdimitrov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. With this, we have exhausted today's agenda. Regular plenary sitting tomorrow.. 13 December 2019, at 9.00 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
