ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before we start working on the program, I'll introduce you to a message. On 18 September 2019 the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 7 of 17 September 2019 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 7 of 2019. By its decision the Constitutional Court declared the provision of art. 10, para. 1 sentence second of the Law on Customs, promulgated in the State Gazette, p. 15 of 1998, latest amendment to No. 32 from 2019 Honourable Members of the National Assembly in connection with the application of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly referred to in points 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Work Programme of the National Assembly for the period from 18 to 20 October 2018. I remind you of the following: According to the programme adopted under these points are provided for consideration and discussion of the annual reports on the activities of the State Agency for National Security, the State Agency for Intelligence, the Office for Military Information and the State Security of Information on the overall state of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, which are classified information with classification levels, respectively........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In view of the stated and the adoption of the Programme and on the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the MNS meeting in the part of the examination of these points is closed and this is not discussed and voted. I remind the Members of the National Assembly and the other persons involved that the discussion and the minutes of the closed meeting are classified information and bind to the respective obligations all Members of the National Assembly and the persons who have access to them. The envisaged in art. 50, para. 6 of the PodNS publicity of the acts adopted at a closed session will be ensured and the same will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the order for this. In accordance with the requirements of art. 50, para. 4 of the substation, I ask all outsiders to leave the hall and the balconies, as well as to suspend direct media transmission and broadcast over the Internet, and then the meeting will continue indoors. Please meet the requirements. [[Next closed session.]] [[After the closed part of the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u2	Colleagues, I think we're ready to move on to item 10th of this week's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE STOCKS AND TRADES. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Here you are, Mrs. Saveclieva, to present the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I read the Report, I request a procedure under the Law amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u4	I'd like you to call a vote for admission in this Chamber. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades, No 902-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2019. At its regular meeting on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades. The bill was presented by Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. In order to ensure the obligations of the parties to concluded futures and optional transactions that are not financial instruments within the meaning of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the commodity exchange shall establish a special clearing mechanism and the conditions for its operation shall be laid down in the stock exchange rules of the relevant commodity exchange. All other transactions in financial instruments shall be concluded under the applicable legislation. During the discussion of a question asked by the National Representative Rumen Gechev, the Chairman of the State Committee on Commodity Exchanges and Trades Vladimir Ivanov explained that the bill concerns the settlement of a clearing mechanism only for trade in the commodity market and does not concern the market in financial instruments. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades, No 902-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. The importers of the bill, do they want to present it? I can't see. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Gechev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This proposal of the Council of Ministers is one of the strangest. We're just wasting our time right now and I'll tell you why. The main reason in the motives of the Council of Ministers to ask for no licensing regime and not to clear the house of the Bulgarian stock exchange is more precisely the main one is the Sofia Stock Exchange, although there is a Bulgarian Stock Exchange, but the main one is the Sofia Stock Exchange, is to reduce the administrative burden, but this is not the explanation. What administrative burden will you reduce after the representatives of the state have explained that there is currently no application for a clearing permit? What do they do when there's not a single request? I don't know how many people are in the State Agency. Are there 17? Are there 27? They haven't considered a single request, and they want us to ease their administrative burden. There's something wrong here. It's something else. The reason is that the whole world, all the countries of the European Union have a clearinghouse for balancing accounts, for reducing bank guarantees, for facilitating companies that trade. Here's the other way around. They want the Sofia Stock Exchange to make its own clearing rules. Excuse me, the idea is to level off, balance the interests of sellers and buyers, not to satisfy the interests that cannot always be objective on the relevant stock exchange. There's something else going on here. Someone wants to control the stock exchange in Bulgaria, which is not acceptable. No administrative burden, zero. So the Council of Ministers is lying to us. Secondly, they tell us that clearing house was only in the US and Indonesia. Open the government's motives. As a professor of economic policy, I became very curious: what is Indonesia going to be like? Suddenly I see boats, canals, islands, exotics. Indonesia and the United States. Well, Indonesia's gross domestic product is 1 trillion dollars and 26 million plus. My government tells me that Indonesia has stock markets for trillions of dollars. But these people had a hard childhood. What Indonesia, what United States of America?! The two sides had nothing to do with it. Indonesia is 45th in the world in competitiveness. What example of stock exchanges? What's this about? I mean, things aren't what they say they are. The motives are not the ones that the government presents to us, which is why we cannot protect them. Secondly, what surprised me very unpleasantly is when I saw the statistics. I said to myself, to go, to look carefully, as I am obliged as a Member of the Commission's National Assembly, the statistics of the Sofia Stock Exchange. For about 350 million are the transactions that the Sofia Stock Exchange has carried out at 115 billion BGN gross domestic product. According to our State Agency's data, over 90 percent of the transactions being made on the Sofia Stock Exchange, do you know what they are? Government contracts. In other words, someone wants public procurement, public procurement, because this is what the stock exchange is dealing with only with government procurement, to arrange for them a nice clearing mechanism inside which is not with an institution but by internal rules of the exchange. Very interesting, unlike the whole of Europe. What's 345 million to the state alone? This means that, firstly, the Stock Exchange in Bulgaria has not moved in the last 20 years in practice. Secondly, this means, honourable Members, that the private business of Bulgaria, you know what that means, does not want to trade through the Sofia Stock Exchange. They don't want to! I've spoken to over 15 people, major importers and exporters of key goods, which are generally stock commodities. To talk to people and companies, yes, I ask: why? They have no confidence, they do not want to go through the Sofia Stock Exchange, there are problems with the structure of Bulgarian agriculture, with too large companies in agriculture. At all, the problem is systemic not only on the Sofia Stock Exchange. The fault is not in the Exchange itself, it is in the wrong economic structure of Bulgaria in agriculture, including in the Exchange. I went through the markets of the whole of Europe to see what speed people are making towards gross domestic product. I won't talk to you about Hungary. The Hungarian stock exchange has already merged with Vienna in Austria and are the third in the European Union. And the first one in southern Europe, do you know what stock market it is? The stock exchange in Bucharest, Romania. One hundred and fifty million dollars in Bulgaria, 4.5 billion in Romania, and we are the last in the European Union, they are the last. Here we only trade in goods. The Romanians put in futures, put in options, tied up with securities. We are now 100 years behind Romania in stock trading. I'll tell you what he said in the Economic Commission, the representative, the head of our State Agency for Trade. Quoting: At present 85% of the transactions are government contracts. There are deals with grain. Despite low trade, the only price he has from a grain deal is from the Stock Exchange. We only have a spot market. Now listen to what the present man says: We are at the same level of stock trading as it was in the 19th century in the United States of America. Further on he says: "There is no deal or attempt to make such a short-term exchange deal. There are only forwards that are 10 days old. Transactions that have been made in Genoa since the 19th century. Hello, how are you, fellow Members?? We're in the 18th and 19th century with the stock trade. The Romanians are 30 years ahead. The Hungarians have merged with Austria. Here only the state is running some deals at the Sofia Stock Exchange. These are the facts, the assessments of our state authorities. I listen carefully and write. And open the Report for last year of the Sofia Stock Exchange with this I intend to finish. And the head of the Sofia Stock Exchange is the boss of a large bank, which is run by a famous Bulgarian lady, that is, he is not a person who, to say, is bound by the opposition, say. And what is written in this report at the Sofia Stock Exchange on the front page of the website. I quote one to one on the front page: Our country has been a member of the European Union for more than 10 years now, but the results achieved are not satisfactory. It is not normal for our development to be due only to the funds received under the European projects and programmes, and for the economic activity in Bulgaria to concentrate only on the fight to win more public procurement. The business climate is deteriorating, foreign direct investment is declining, and small and medium-sized business is difficult to survive at the limit of bankruptcy. So let us vote against this law. It's not a change in the law, it's an imitation, and we're wasting our time here. We don't want to legalize an 18th century stock exchange. The Ministry of Economy. Members, the first thing we will ask the Minister at the next meeting in the Economic Commission is to make a cardinal change. For your information, in 2014, the Ministry of Economy wanted to close down the State Agency, to transfer it to the Ministry, because when there are no requests for development on the Bulgarian Exchange, why should this agency stand for?! What's she really licensing?! What are they doing there?! Why would we even spend budget money this year? The Ministry can only handle trades or brokers. But what kind of brokers who don't have deals? A hundred and thirty licensed brokers?! What are these brokers gonna do? There they sell buckets of wheat, so we have to get back to the European road. We cannot support a policy that brings Bulgaria back, according to the President of the State Agency, in the XVIII and XIX century in the States and in Genoa. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Would the importers like to say something? Not either. I am closing the debate and moving on to the vote. We vote at first reading the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades. Vote 100 MPs: 62, against 27, abstention 11. It wasn't accepted. [[Revoking lines.]] Take it easy! Here you go. Anyone want to announce why they want a re-vote? Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, a re-vote procedure, as there were MPs entering the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-19.u10	That's right, some of them didn't run fast enough, but it's been one minute by the book, so I'm announcing a re-voting procedure. Vote 116 MPs: 77, against 29, abstention 10. The bill was passed at first reading. That's what we're running out of agenda for today. Parliamentary control will be published on the site. [[Definitions between MP Emil Hristov and Chairman Christian Vigenin.]] Mr. Christov, it just wasn't in the file, I can read them. For your information, I will read the parliamentary control for tomorrow. 1. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer eleven questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova 2. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will respond to a question by the National Representative Anton Kutev after 11:00. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Stanislav Stanilov. 4. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; Teodora Halacheva and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, and one question from the MP Anton Kutev. 5. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer ten questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov three questions; Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; Stanislav Vladimirov and Lubomir Bonev; Nikolay Tishev; Pavel Shopov; Smilyana Niva-Krsteva two questions; and Nikolai Ivanov. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov and Theodora Halacheva. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Stanislav Vladimirov. 8. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova 9. Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; 10. Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; 11. Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Chavdar Velinov; 12. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question by the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; 13. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question with a written answer from the National Representative Mihail Hristov; 14. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev addressed two questions, with a written answer from the MPs Valentina Naydenova; and Tsvetan Topchiev; 15. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question by the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Dimitar Danchev; 16. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Dessislava Taneva addressed three issues by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; and Nikola Dinkov. 17. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov answered a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - one question from the MP Cornelia Ninova to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov; - a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will not participate. Parliamentary control will start after the first item of the legislative programme and the entire legislative programme is exhausted. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
