ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a program for the work of the National Assembly: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The Council of Ministers was introduced on 14 November 2019. It was adopted on the first vote on 27 November 2019. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2019. The first vote was adopted on 15 November 2019. 3. Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations, as amended by the National Assembly Decision of 12 October 2018 and the National Assembly Decision of 27 February 2019. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2019. The first vote was adopted on 21 November 2019. 5. Draft decisions on changes in the permanent and temporary committees and delegation of the National Assembly. Importers are: Valentin Kasabov and Iskren Veselinov - 26 September 2019, 14 November 2019, 15 November 2019, 20 November 2019 and 17 December 2019; Iskren Veselinov and Boris Yachev - 12 December 2019; Daniela Daritkova - 13 December 2019. 6. Hearing of the Minister of Health on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the suspension of emergency reception at the Children's Hospital. Importers are: Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Mihaylov on 13 December 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 19 December 2019 7. Parliamentary control point 2 for Thursday 19 December 2019 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 December 2019. Point 1 for Friday 20 December 2019 9. First vote on the bill for annulment of the Social Services Act. Importers are Desislaw Chukolov and a group of MPs on 6 November 2019, Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Services Act. Importer is Angel Isaev on 21 November 2019 Laws amending the Law on Social Services. Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 4 December 2019; Elena Pesheva and Boryana Georgieva on 13 December 2019. Point 2 for Friday, 20 December 2019 10. Parliamentary control "Friday 20 December 2019, following the conclusion of the legislative part of the programme.' Please vote on the submitted Work Project of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u3	Let's end the vote and I'll give you the floor. They voted 190 MPs: 136 against 15, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Here you go. Who's gonna do the procedure? If it's about turning the point on, I'm going to put it to the vote now, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u4	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u5	Colleagues, under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules have been proposed by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to include a new item on the agenda. In less than a week, three news in the country became evidence of deliberate chaos in the policy of import control and use of waste of unclear origin within the country. It is imperative that the Minister of Environment and Water give clear answers to the drastic violations of environmental rights and civil security. Awaiting answers to a series of questions: 1. A foreign country whose territory starts or passes the transport of hundreds of tonnes of unclear waste with an end point of Bulgaria and fails to stop their traffic, who guarantees that the Bulgarian authorities will be able to do so? Are the wagons currently detained in Italy with almost 900 tonnes of unclear waste the first shipment to Bulgaria? 2. What are the arguments of the MoEW to refuse access to public information about the companies importing waste in Bulgaria for 2017 and 2018? What is the Minister's reaction that the Bulgarian court defended the public interest of the Ministry of Ecology? 3. Does the MOEW take responsibility for the intentionally lost control of the attempt to burn waste in the Bulgarian thermal power plant.Brikel................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Are any of these other cases known? Therefore, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Procedure we propose to hold a hearing of the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP, we propose that the hearing be included as item one on the agenda of the National Assembly on 18 December 2019. Please vote on it, fellow Members. Vote 182 MPs: for 176, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the minister to the hall during this time I will read the messages. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 11 December to 17 December 2019: A bill to amend and supplement the Climate Change Restriction Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft decision to change the composition of a permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services. Importers are Elena Stefanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Draft Decision supplementing the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process of the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Control. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision to supplement the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian Radio. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft Law on the ratification of the amendment of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 28 September 2016, signed on 4 December 2019. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement in the field of social security between the Republic of Bulgaria and Quebec. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Report of the Bulgarian National Bank for January June 2019, budget of BNB for 2020. Import is the Bulgarian National Bank. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission's management on economic policy and tourism. The importer is Honest Vesselinoff. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 88, para. 6 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the draft decision on a change in the composition and management of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on 26 September 2019. Application by Valeri Simeonov? Vice-President of the National Assembly: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 23, para. 1, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure state that I wish to be dismissed as Vice-President of the Energy Committee by remaining a member. I request that the application be announced to the National Assembly. And the last message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria has informed the National Assembly that in the implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its own orders has authorised the passage through the airspace and the residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature of: - a plane with crew of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Azerbaijan to transport military production from Spain to Azerbaijan. The authorisation shall be valid for flying from Azerbaijan to Spain and back from 12 to 23 December 2019. - a plane with crew members of Ukraine's air force to transport special production from Ukraine to the Hazemid Kingdom of Jordan. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. The notifications were received on 12 and 16 December 2019. No 903-09-83 and vh. No 903-09-84 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF ENVIRONMENT AND WATERS OF BENEFICIARY Art. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON IMPORT CONTROL POLICY AND USE OF A WASTE WITH INDEPENDENT ORIGIN IN THE COUNTRY IN THESE QUESTIONS: 1. A foreign country whose territory starts or passes the transport of hundreds of tonnes of unclear waste with an end point of Bulgaria fails to stop their traffic. who guarantees that the Bulgarian authorities will be able to do so? Are the wagons currently detained in Italy with almost 900 tonnes of unclear waste the first shipment to Bulgaria? 2. What are the arguments of the MoEW to refuse access to public information about the companies importing waste in Bulgaria for 2017 and 2018? What is the Minister's reaction that the Bulgarian court defended the public interest of the Ministry of Ecology? 3. Does the MOEW take responsibility for the intentionally lost control of the attempt to burn waste in Bulgarian thermal power plant / Are any other such cases known? They are: Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Dragomir Stoinev and Atanas Kostadinov on 17 December 2019. Colleagues, you have five minutes to justify your request. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u6	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The reason for the request we have submitted is that for several weeks, for months, the media are constantly broadcasting reports about some ball of junk, other places in dens, and it is not clear about the Bulgarian what is in them. Last week we had a few strong moments on this occasion. The Executive Environment Agency was asked to provide the Bulgarian public with a list of companies, companies that import waste to Bulgaria. For 2017 and 2018 the Executive Agency refused such information with the pretext that it was not socially significant. After an appeal in the Administrative Court, we have a decision that such information should be submitted. We remember what happened to the TPP in the so-called "experiential" in quotes, colleagues, waste burning. There the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters Department, led by Mr. Dimov, refused to provide information on whether or not there is an environmental impact assessment. In the end, the court ordered to stop burning waste precisely with the argument that no environmental impact assessment report had been passed. Since the Bulgarian society has the impression that it is hardly the whole waste policy of this ministry and this government is very close to the same waste, that nothing is decided that public information is hidden from the people, that there is not enough transparency given to the media to know what goes into Bulgaria, where it is processed, what raw material is used, whether it is recycled, somewhere secretly or illegally deposited, so we want all these issues to be put today and to listen to the opinion of the Ministry on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Here you are, Minister, to answer the questions asked within ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, thank you for the opportunity there have been slight inaccuracies in the presentation and this gives the opportunity to give the information you want. First, according to art. 3 of the European Community Regulation No 1013/2006, the transport of waste may be subject to a prior written notification and consent procedure or be carried out in accordance with the general information requirements under art. 18 of the Regulation. The Ministry of Environment and Water as a competent authority under this Regulation shall issue prior written notification and agreement on cross-border transport of waste. At this stage, control is preliminary and on documents. It shall be strictly ensured that the authorised capacity of the receiving waste installations is not exceeded annually under the permit documents under the Waste Management Act or the complex permit. On the basis of art. 98 of the Waste Management Act prohibits shipments of waste to the Republic of Bulgaria intended for disposal. Those in quantities exceeding half the annual capacity of the installation as defined in the waste activity document for the calendar year concerned are also prohibited when it comes to incineration or co-burning with energy recovery. According to the Regulation, shipments of waste subject to general information requirements of the so-called Green List are not subject to authorisation by the Ministry of Environment and Water and are required for each transport to be accompanied by an Annex No 7 document of the Regulation. On the basis of art. 116 of the Waste Management Act, the control of cross-border transport of waste is carried out through the Director of RIEW, the customs authorities, the authorities of the Directorate-General of Border Police and the departments of the Ministry of Interior, the officials of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Interior, the Agency of Railway Administration and the Agency of the Sea Administration. The customs authorities and authorities of the Directorate-General for Police shall control the cross-border transport of waste at the border of the Republic of Bulgaria and the borders of the community. Officials of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Interior, the Railway Administration Executive Agency and the Police Departments of the Ministry of Interior shall exercise control over the shipments of waste within the territory of the country. The Director of the relevant RIEW shall carry out controls on the territory of the destination of the transport. In the event of doubts about the compliance of the cargo with the accompanying documents, doubts about the classification of the cargo as waste or the type of waste, the persons involved in the inspection shall immediately inform the Director of the RIEW in whose territory the verification is carried out of a decision on the classification of the cargo, respectively of the waste. In such cases, the cargo shall be considered to be waste until the Director of the RIEW has received an opinion. According to the Waste Management Act, in the event of the finding of infringements of Regulation No 1013/2006 or illegal transport, individual control bodies are authorised to impose a sanction under art. 158 of the Environmental Protection Act. Until now, the Ministry of Environment and Water has not submitted an application for consent for the transport of such waste by rail from Italy to Bulgaria and therefore no authorisation has been granted for such waste. As required by the Regulation, in cases of suspected illegal transport, the relevant competent enforcement authority should immediately inform the other competent authorities concerned. The Ministry of Environment and Water as a competent authority for implementing Regulation No 1013/2006 has not so far been notified by the Italian competent authorities of the detention of illegal transport intended for Bulgaria. The control on the transport and transport of waste has been strengthened since the summer of this year, when, in order to prevent the Ministry of Environment and Water, the control bodies of the Regulation are addressed in the face of regional inspections on the environment and water, the Customs Agency and the Border Police Directorate General, for increased attention and vigilance in the transport of waste. Preventive measures have been taken to reduce the potential risks to human health and the environment arising from waste originating in imports. In September, joint checks were initiated at the border and customs posts, as well as at the Black Sea ports, through which they enter or leave the territory of our country's cross-border transport of waste, and experts from the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, the Border Police Directorate General and the Customs Directorate General took part. About accessing information. The specific access to public information, the Ministry of Environment and Water is requested to provide completed Annexes No 7 containing information on the accompanying transport of waste, according to art. 3, § 2 and § 4 of Regulation No 1013/2006. These are transports for which no notification or consent procedure is required for the import of waste into Bulgaria for the years 2017 - 2018. According to the applicable European and Bulgarian legislation, it is not requested that persons send copies of Annex No 7 of the Regulation to the Ministry of Environment and Water. Pursuant to Regulation No 1 of 4 June 2014 on the order to provide information on waste activities as well as the procedure for keeping a public register, persons carrying out the transport of waste under that Regulation in the case where no notification is required shall provide an annual report on a model form in the Executive Environment and Water Agency. A copy of the forms of Annex No 7 of the Regulation completed and signed in the relevant fields shall be attached to the annual reference statement. The request for access to information has been sent by the Ministry of Environment and Water to the Executive Director of the ESA for competence. The Executive Director of the ESA has refused access on the basis of art. 37, para. 1, t. 1 of the ADA in connection with Art. 1. 48, para. 7 of the Waste Management Act. The refusal was appealed by the Administrative Court, which, by its decision on 12 December, annulled the refusal of the Executive Director of the Environment Agency. The Court of Justice has sent the decision to the Director of the Executive Agency to rule in accordance with the Court's instructions. About the investment intention of the Brickel "EAD" in RIEW "Stara Zagora," the procedure for assessing the necessity of carrying out EIA. In the course of the procedure, the Regional Inspectorate received a positive opinion from RZI - Stara Zagora, public access to all interested parties was provided. No opinions have been received by natural or legal persons within the statutory period. On 16 July 2018, the Director of RIEW, Stara Zagora, issued a decision assessing not to carry out an environmental impact assessment. The Administrative Court has granted prior enforcement of the decision. The assessment of the Regional Inspectorate is challenged before the Administrative Court of Stara Zagora. The Court of First Instance annulled the Director's decision by its Decision No 404 of 9 December this year. In relation to the control carried out by the Ministry and the RIEW, checks have been carried out which have led to: - by order of the Director of the RIEW on 9 September 2019 a forced administrative measure has been imposed by the "Brickel" EAD; - We stopped the operation of the plant due to the failure of the conditions of the complex permit related to the type of fuel used On 10 September 2019 the RIEW "Stara Zagora" annulled the implementation of the plan for conducting testing tests in the operating conditions of co-incineration of coal and non-hazardous waste in the combustion plant of On 24 September, following an on-the-spot check, it was found that the conditions under the imposed administrative measure were met, no waste was available on the site of the company and the violations laid down in the complex permit. In this respect, an order was issued by the Director of the RIEW on 24 September to repeal the imposed forced administrative measure. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall cancel the registration document under art. 78 of the Waste Management Act of "Trash Heivers" Ltd. for carrying out non-hazardous waste storage and prior treatment activities on a site owned by "Brickel" EAD. The Ministry has sent the file to the Director of the RIEW. In view of the above, the RIEW has suspended the registration document procedure pending the completion of the judicial procedure. With regard to the fact that the company does not have a valid RIEW document, a cleaning order was issued at the site from the available quantities of waste. Currently, the prescription is being appealed to the Administrative Court in Stara Zagora. In relation to the control carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Water, acts have been issued to identify infringements of the operator. With the completion of administrative criminal proceedings, sanctions of 7 thousand have been imposed. BGN 515. Penalties have also been imposed on "Trash Heivers" Ltd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u9	Thank you, dear Minister. We are now moving on to questions from the parliamentary groups. Here's the first question, within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Last week we finished with the topic "Ecology" and this week we start again with the topic "Ecology" which is a very clear indicator that the processes related to environmental protection are becoming more and more socially important and important to society. In the last few months, the issue of waste, as well as the topic of air, has been gaining very serious and significant public energy and people are rightly worried, so I am very much in favour of the initiative for the debate, as the issue is extremely important. This issue has also been posed for a reason in the context of the past Conference in Madrid, which also affects climate change and, in general, the subject of ecology as a whole, but the problem of waste is indeed an extremely up-to-date topic in the last few weeks. We are witnessing a lot of media publications, interpretations, and I will not exaggerate if I say speculation and suggestion, so it is important for us that you give accurate information so that society can be aware of the real situation regarding waste that enters, comes out and is treated in the country. Since the problem cannot be exhausted with a few questions, I would like to put a topic to debate and, within the given time to clarify: what is the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water with regard to waste in particular; what is the practice in European countries; what percentage of waste in the country is being burned at the moment; what percentage are being burned in Europe, and in slightly larger details to clarify the percentage of waste burned in the country, how are they distributed to thermal plants and cement plants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. After every question you should answer, Mr. Dimov. You don't have a time limit, but still... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shishkov, the waste management policy, starting from the level of the European Union, aims to go in the direction of minimal disposal. In practice, in the next 10 to 15 years, the level of waste disposal within the European Union should be less than 10%. From this point of view, all the measures that are being adopted at the moment, including investment, through the Operational Programme "Environment" are, in addition to the construction of all the regional waste treatment systems that have been completed, to assist these regional systems with composting, separating installations, anaerobic installations so that a maximum percentage of these waste can be re-used. Reuse and recycling according to the purpose that is set before the European Union, respectively, before Bulgaria, is to reach about 65%. Given that the disposal target is below 10%, we still have 25% left to be used through combustion. To date, rather than the last official information it has, the average waste incineration in the European Union is of the order of 28%. In Bulgaria the burning of waste is less than 3%, with over 95 of these 3% for cement plants, that is, we have a very large margin in which we must catch up, again I say, this is within the next 10 to 15 years. It is essential to say that, as of 2017, a mandatory list within the European Union with the best available technologies, which are mandatory for any installation wishing to use energy after co-incineration of waste, is in place. This is not a wishlist, it is mandatory and it is mandatory to prescribe in complex permits that will be issued or which are in the process of issuing. Perhaps I should point out that some of the most called ecological cities, cities that have won the Eco-city of the Year, such as the capitals of Sweden and Denmark, use more than 50% of waste burning. At all, this is a process that will obviously gain strength. This does not, of course, mean that these mandatory and best available techniques must not be respected, which must align across the European Union the way in which installations can treat such waste. Maybe these are the things I can say in a nutshell. If I missed anything, I'll talk extra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u13	You'll have a chance, dear Mr. Dimov. It is now the turn of a question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Who's gonna ask that? Here you are, Mr. Genov. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u14	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is this: how will you comment on the decision of the Administrative Court mentioned earlier, which protected the real public interest of the Executive Environment Agency when refusing such information? What is your comment on this? And my other sub-question is to tell my colleagues how many companies in Bulgaria are involved in such activity to import waste from European countries into the Republic of Bulgaria from third countries? And not only those working under the Annex 7 Regulation but also those with prior notification where export authorisation, transit, import and control are required. How many are these Bulgarian companies, given that, life and health, next year I will ask you such a written question? If you could name them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, the main function of the court is to resolve disputes. Where a refusal of access to information has been given, the party concerned has appealed, the court has settled the dispute. He has decided it in a certain direction and has, respectively, sent instructions to the Environment Agency, which must comply with the court and comply with the court's decision. After all, we have no reason to doubt that it is the court that settles the disputes, and once it has resolved them, they must be implemented according to the judgment of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u17	I agree...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u18	Excuse me? With the court's decision?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u19	I agree with the information to be provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u20	Look, I don't comment on the court's decisions...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u21	Don't go into dialogues, Mr. Minister, you'll have a chance to explain later.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u22	Yeah, sorry, sorry. Although I am not entering into dialogue, I am merely saying that the decisions of the court are not being commented, the decisions of the court are being carried out. As for the number of specific companies that require notification, I cannot now tell you a specific number, of course. Those who require notification of the Basel Convention are published on the website, but I will prepare the information so that I can give it to you. I don't know them by heart right now. The information is not available in the MOEW but in the Environment Agency. Once the Executive Director provides this information, it will be public. He'll probably need time to process it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u23	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. ..a movement for rights and freedoms....come in. First it's you, now the third most powerful parliamentary group. Two minutes for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u24	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Undoubtedly, as my colleagues before me have said, this topic is very sensitive. This is one of the topics that really excites people and we are witnesses, I will very slightly recall, during the waste crisis in Sofia, in the other parts of the country, what was the reaction of the people.............................. with a very serious mobilization. At present, there is indeed a serious excitement and a lot of negative attitudes about the possibility of imported waste from Europe to be burned in the country. And in view of the sensitivity of the subject, I would like to correctly point out in terms of the purity of air and particulate matter, the subject is even more sensitive. I would like to recall, Mr. Minister, honourable Members, that at the beginning, when we harmonised our legislation with this of the European, we who participated in the work of the Commission, it is correct here to point out Associate Professor Borislav Velikov, Mr. Dimitar Peychev, Mr. Georgi Bojinov, I was also part of this committee as President, we did so, the whole committee did our best and we did together, we should be grateful to our colleagues from Germany, a legislation as strict as possible in this regard. Naturally, in accordance with the regulations of the respective directives they have been transposed, you have introduced them, Mr Minister, and colleagues. It is clear what the legal framework is and I will not repeat it. My question in this regard to you is: am I not going to use the more complex terms for the general public, in terms of waste notification by entities that could carry out this activity, to import into the country, meeting all the criteria? Even in these cases, we must be as careful, very precise and very precise as possible to the responsible entities and institutions. True, the waste being imported has higher calories, but we must consider the purity of the air, the protection of life and the health of people, the environment. We need to be as careful as possible. When colleagues and I harmonised the legislation, Germany warned us that Bulgaria would not be one of the countries that would be used as an export site for them, for us imports, and to be a country to accept waste. That is by no means acceptable. I am convinced that you share such a position. It is good to present to us what the position is and if there is information, naturally it must be immediately and promptly provided to the whole public and to all of us. We will monitor this process so that unregulated imports, recovery and recycling of waste from any Member State of the European Union are not allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, firstly, the fact is that the Bulgarian legislation is one of the most restrictive, which is the result of the work of the Members of the National Assembly and the entire National Assembly. I will emphasise once again what I said in my exhibition: Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union where there is a restriction on the import of waste and fuel from waste not to exceed more than half the capacity of the installation. In fact, I have no information about any other country in the European Union having such a restriction. This was notified back then by the European Commission and it agreed, so this restriction exists in Bulgaria. In order to preserve people's health, when such a procedure is underway, we always send for opinions to RZI, to regional health inspections, because they are a competent authority and if they consider that there is such a risk, we always proceed in one single way through an environmental impact assessment. In particular, in the case referred to in "Brickel', on the contrary, the view is that there is no such risk and has therefore gone under a judgment procedure with a decision not to do so. However, in order to strengthen control this year, a change in the Law was adopted, which requires the setting of cameras that can monitor the flow of waste, not for those who are conscientious, but if it happens somewhere out of control, because there is no way for district inspections to have 24-hour control on the ground. At the moment, on 24 September, when the PAM was canceled for.Brickel, there were installed, I will confuse the number of cameras that transmit directly to the local authorities, to the town hall and to the regional inspection. At any given moment we have access through these cameras to what passes on the lines to the combustion plants, which is an additional guarantee. Control remains in place, of course, most important is import control. That is why we have made several meetings with the other competent control authorities, and if there is any doubt about what is being imported, to call an expert from the regional environmental inspection in the territory concerned in order to be able to classify whether what is on paper corresponds to what is being imported or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. Now it is the turn of a question by the United Patriarchs. Would you like to ask a question? As if I didn't. Then I ask willy? Independents are entitled to one question. I can't see. Then we move on to the next round of questions. GERB Parliamentary Group? No further questions. Bulgarian Socialist Party? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov. You have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Dimov! After all, this problem is reached because it is a policy issue and a model of governance. In Italy, the model is oriented towards export of waste to China. The moment China stops importing waste, they have a total problem with the realization of the garbage. This, of course, falls on the heads of countries with reduced control. There has been such a problem in Romania, such a problem has been in other neighbouring countries. Now, unfortunately, also in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria, however, the model also turns out to be favorable for this type of waste, as it is once won by the garbage itself from Italy, and the second time is won by the electricity produced from the garbage. In other words, there is a great economic stimulus and interest in this garbage coming to Bulgaria. And until the pattern itself changes, the system itself, there will be no difference. The big problem is this piece of shit that doesn't come from, not the one that has papers. He was caught in Italy with one document, and it turned out to be another. Where, to say, the fuel is RDF or domestic waste, it is subject to another regime and when it is recycled, it travels freely to Europe. Therefore, the criminal contingent and the circles that work illegally work with fake waste codes and it turns out that Bulgaria is also a destination for such garbage. And that's where the big problem is. I dare say that there are big gaps in the waste recycling system in Bulgaria. For example, companies recycling raw materials are subject to bank guarantees, video surveillance, but some brokers who only carry and trade in waste are not subject to a bank guarantee or video surveillance, and there are no higher requirements to them than there are to companies in Bulgaria that recycle secondary raw materials. This means that in the regulations themselves, there are gaps in the laws of Bulgaria which make Bulgaria a favourable destination for imports of foreign waste, of which, of course, Bulgarian citizens, the environment, their health suffer. Another worrying issue is that for this trash that comes without origins, a number of media have asked questions and your ministry with silent refusal refused information. The Ministry of Environment and Water, when it comes to the health of the citizens, should be the most open, and we observe something different. The Ministry itself refuses information on how much trash, where and for what purpose it entered and who brought it in. In my opinion, Mr. Minister, this further pours oil into the fire and into the worries of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u29	Do you have a question, Mr. Bojankov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u32	Question? Who's the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u33	My question to you is: do you have any information on how many companies are importing waste? More clarity to give us about this case from Italy: Was the trash for Bulgaria intended; were there other known cases of you and your ministry, for trying to import such waste, which was of one code, but actually turned out to be different; and what measures will your ministry take in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, maybe I won't follow the order in which you asked the questions, but I'll try to tell them all. Speaking specifically of Italy: no, we have no information whether it is intended for Bulgaria. The competent authority of Italy has not signalled the competent authority in this case the Ministry of Environment and Water, so that for this waste there is no objective information or any information. No authorisation was requested for transport, for rail transport, respectively no authorisation was granted. You said, in fact, that is not the problem when you insert RDF and other types of waste that have regular documents. In my speech at the beginning I said that there are two types of movement. The ones that require notification. These are all fuels produced from waste. It's mandatory for them to notify. Such notifications shall be made through the Ministry of Environment and Water. I can't, as I said to Mr. Genov right now, give you an exact number, but I'll give you that information. It is also available on the page of the Bern Convention because they are necessarily published on the pages of the Bern Convention. However, when it comes to false codes or criminal imports, that is why I said that, since the summer of this year, we have met with border authorities and other authorities who also have responsibilities so that, in doubt, they can call experts from the regional inspection to say whether the code corresponds to this demand or vice versa, because it is normal for the customs authorities not to be able to, but in doubt, they treat it as waste until the Director of the RIEW decides whether or not this corresponds to the code. As for omissions in the Law, I am sure that there is no perfect law, and I would be delighted if together we can complement these laws with any ideas you have. I'm open. I will only give an example of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act when, together with all the parliamentary groups, we made an improvement, which was very consensual, and I thank all the parliamentary groups once again for that. So from this point of view, I am open, and I would love to make a conversation that you have ideas to try to bring them in so that the Law becomes better, it still won't be perfect. But let me say that, in general, waste continues to look like garbage, but the idea of circular economy is to talk about waste as raw material. From this point of view, of course, this is a raw material that has its characteristics. We must increasingly think of waste as something that is useful and from which an economy can be made. That's the idea of circular economy. Therefore, much of the waste is on the so-called Green List, which moves freely in Europe so that it can be recycled, so that it can be reusable. It's normal to have that kind of movement. I would just say that on the completed Bulgarian-Swiss programme, in which about 4,000 tonnes of pesticides were destroyed, we exported all these 4,000 tonnes to be treated in incinerators, which in Bulgaria does not have, that is to say, a normal process within the European Union. So we need to look more and more at this type of raw material from an economic point of view, which does not mean that it should not be viewed in terms of protecting the environment and human health. Deposing must be reduced because it is harmful to the environment. It is best to re-use, immediately after that the recycling of waste. But the entire hierarchy of the circular economy is also the burning and recovery of energy from waste, which, as I said at the beginning of the meeting, is purely based on accounts within 10 to 15 years we need to find a way for about 25% of the waste. Assuming that less than 10% should be deposited, which is the goal of European policy, in the perspective of the Bulgarian; if we assume that around 60 Once again, since 2017, there have been very clear lists of best available technologies within the European Union that must be implemented, and they are prescribed in the complex permits that are given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimov. We are moving on to the final stage of the hearing the parliamentary groups have the right to express their opinion, attitude to the answers within five minutes. This is what we do in the order of the parliamentary groups. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva. You have five minutes to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I thank my colleagues from the BSP for having challenged a hearing on this current topic.... extremely important and exciting all of us and society, because it is about concerns related to the environment in which we live. Environmental issues are becoming increasingly significant and sensitive to society, and there is no way they cannot be, because they are directly related to people's health. Mr. Dimov presented information related to both the specific occasion for the debate and the policies carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Water, and I thank you for your information, Mr. Dimov. I think that a very important focus in this was also the desire to respect legislation in terms of the hierarchy of waste management, the implementation of best practices and best available techniques in order to increase the percentage of waste prevention, recycling and reuse. This is the focus we need to focus on. As far as waste burning is concerned, the risks are associated with potential air pollution. Of course, when we are talking about illegal practices and landfilling, pollution, and soils, in this sense, we must be absolutely irreconcilable to all forms of uncontrolled practices. This also includes the disposal of unregulated landfills, including unregulated introduction and incineration of waste. It has been done very much so far and colleagues very well remember that in July 2009, when the management of the triple coalition ended, there were almost no regional management systems built, facilities that suggest appropriate treatment of waste. Since then, we already have 53 regional waste management systems built up, there are installed separation plants - 11 in number during the first period of the Operational Program, 19 composting plants, currently very hard construction plants for composting green and biodegradable waste. That's the point. As far as burning is concerned, I think that we are all aware of the fact that this is an opportunity that European legislation allows for the possibility of generating electricity and heat, but burning should only be done in compliance with the strictest requirements and the application of the strictest standards. This means: best available techniques, non-compromising controls on the import of waste and on the incineration process, cleaning plants to ensure that emissions are excluded. We've made changes in legislation. Just two months ago, we all introduced the requirement that installations be equipped with video surveillance and that unauthorized waste burning be avoided. We have recently tabled a proposal to amend the Criminal Code again in order to prevent illegal practices and severe penalties for anyone who affords something like this. What is important is not to allow economic interest to prevail over the public and, in this sense, to always be preventive control in the first place, really with respect to the principle of caution and laying down the strictest requirements for all operators. Burning and recovery must mean that it will only be allowed when waste cannot be pre-treated, recycled or re-used, i.e. not at any cost. We need to continue our efforts to transpose and implement the legislation that was adopted at European level last year. In this sense, I believe that all of us Members of the National Assembly can contribute to the setting of the objectives that are part of this legislation. Last but not least, a new national waste management plan is to be developed. All these considerations need to be taken into account for the focus on the practices that are highest in the hierarchy in terms of waste management. I would like to congratulate Minister Dimov, who, together with other institutions, organizes mass checks in interaction with the Ministry of Interior. This is the way to carry out continuous effective control and not to allow waste that does not meet the requirements to be imported into the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. From BSP's parliamentary group come in, Mrs. Nino, you have the floor to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u39	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You thank us for bringing up the topic, what a nice discussion it had become, but if we could summarize the outcome of this discussion. What have we learned from the responses of the Minister of Environment and Water on the specific case of the garbage from Italy, about which the Italian press wrote that it is a scheme of the Italian mafia and that it is intended for Bulgaria? The Bulgarian government's response is: the Ministry of Environment and Water has not given permission and the Italians have not informed us. Mr. Minister, did you not ask the Italian side after reading this disturbing information: is it true that this quantity is meant for Bulgaria; who on the Italian side is behind this; who in Bulgarian is waiting for this trash and what can you do both countries and the services of both countries to obviously cross this channel for burying Bulgaria with the unregulated junk of Italy? No! The Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian ministry have not shown any initiative. Since the Italians haven't informed us, quietly and quietly we'll get away with it, no one will hear it, and it'll be covered up. Second of all, what do we know?! The Bulgarian government and the minister have no information, do not know at this stage how many companies themselves have given permission to import junk, how much they have authorised and where it is located in Bulgaria. We are talking about the official imports, as the Minister informed us that there is a regulation not to exceed a second of Bulgaria's capacity in the import of such waste and that all this goes through his hands and a request to allow how much to be imported. And at the same time, after five minutes of this tribune tells us: "I don't know how many companies I have signed, how much I have authorized, where this trash is located in Bulgaria at the moment and what is happening to it. Dear colleagues, you are going out and saying: "Thank you to the Minister, what a nice job you have done. " - Are you seriously doing this? Thirdly, control is the most important. What did we find out from the Minister? Again full administrative chaos in control: Customs respond to customs, the Ministry of Interior responds inside the country, RIEW responds if it catches him somewhere in a dump, and most importantly: The D.O.D. gives permission only on paper, and obviously this is where the problem is buried. Documents include raw materials for recycling and production, the Ministry is looking at its documents and everything is fine with him signing, launching and no control of what goes in instead of this raw material. It's obvious that waste comes in. Once again, they transfer their responsibility from an institution to an institution of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Interior of RIEW, RIEW to the mayor and so on. Yesterday we were in a place like this with an Italian raw materials factory that needs to be processed to a plastic product. You may already know what this is about, because there's been a lot of noise in society. This Italian investor wants to use the water supply of the village, which is for drinking water, to wash this waste and from this washing to flush the river of the village of Yavorets. How does this work look to you: as a serious investment intention or turning Bulgaria into a dump site for all kinds of junk from around the world, but mostly as a field for playing out economic interests and for a lot of money, a lot of money at the expense of the health of Bulgarian citizens? We want clean water, fresh air, clean land and clean food. We require immediate measures, not such stalling and general talk as we have heard today. Our conclusion is: you have no information or you are hiding what it is about, you have no control over this whole process. Someone is making a lot of money out of it, and the Bulgarian people are being poisoned. This just can't go on like this. We will continue with the topic by submitting debates with the Project for Solutions, not just speaking from one parliamentary group or another, but projects for Parliament's decisions that the government must necessarily implement. They will be aimed at one goal: saving the nature of Bulgaria, preserving the health of the Bulgarians, ensuring from all of us clean water, clean food, clean land for Bulgarian citizens and protecting our beautiful Bulgaria from making it a waste of the world. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Do the other parliamentary groups want the DPS? I can't see. The United Patriarchs? Mr. Veselinov, you have five minutes to express your attitude. [[Heckling]] If there's an agreement between the groups, it's okay to exchange order. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I really didn't intend to speak, but Mrs. Nino's dramatic statement provoked me. We have obviously been present at different releases of information, because what I have learned from both the media and the answers is that an investigation is ongoing in Italy and it is not clear at all whether this waste was aimed at Bulgaria. Our institutions maintain communication with the responsible authorities and there is simply no clarity at the moment, and we have newspaper information that this is meant for Bulgaria. It is normal for institutions that deal with the control of this process to carry out joint checks and this happens. Anyone who's familiar with the practice knows that, which means they have control. In my opinion, all this drama about the attempt on the health of Bulgarians and the environment is unnecessary. There is a benefit to any discussion and I am sure that there will be a benefit from the proposals you will make, but let us not raise the voltage degrees in directions that are not certain. It is a fact that we are part of the European space and with the bad aspects of this membership, and in this respect what should exist as a guarantee is the security that waste, which is actually secondary raw material, is processed, processed or burned in the right way when it comes to burning. I think that if there is any need for additional information, any one of the Bulgarian institutions responsible would respond because this is really important. By the way, there is an awful lot of this information on both the MoEW sites and on the Basel Convention page, and so on, so there is information. There must be interest, but let us not create unnecessary fears.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, on behalf of the DPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! After the hearing, it is clear that the subject is really very sensitive. It will continue to be in the focus of public attention and it is quite resonant in view of the alleged actions that stand before us and the public and, above all, in view of the risks to human health, the environment and all of us. From what we've heard, Mr. Minister, our eyes are pretty much the same, only I'll allow myself to comment. You correctly pointed out that the controls of the entities themselves, which have the relevant permissions, and where it has reached, will be placed cameras and so on. You rightly pointed out that the emphasis must be maximum, to fall at the places where the border crossings are located, the customs posts where the imports will take place. Moreover, not only should the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water be competent, but it would be good to have joint coordinated actions with both the Border Police and customs authorities. Why should there not be mobile teams during transport in view of what colleague Bojankov said to control what and how it is imported, does it really correspond to what is described in the codes? As you have pointed out, the Law is not restrictive, but a number of regulations allow this to happen accordingly. What is allowed should be subject and attention to maximum control. Everything must be done very precisely in view of the extremely serious issue in terms of imports and the burning of waste. Mr. Minister, you have opened another topic, which is very sensitive, and yesterday in the DPS parliamentary group, and the management discussed the issue of pesticides. I would like to say a few words about this because you pointed out that 4,000 tonnes of the Swiss programme have been exported so far. That's good information. It is correct to say to colleagues and to the general public that the scope of the Swiss programme was 4388 tonnes. Yesterday, representatives of municipalities headed by the mayor of Kardzhali presented quite alarming information about pesticides in the different municipalities of Kardzhali district. This is a serious topic. I believe that the necessary efforts must be made, to provide for the necessary financial resources and there to be repackage, storage and transport outside the country, because we do not have such capacities, incinerators, as you have indicated, to be defused and treated accordingly in the buildings that have so far stored these pesticides. I would point out that since the 1970s, there have been highly poisonous substances that must also be addressed in view of the exceptional risk they pose to people, to the public, to the environment, for all environmental components, the necessary measures and actions must be taken there and financial resources must be provided for. From the position of opposition we would even support you to provide this financial resource because it concerns somewhere about 100 municipalities in the country. It is good to have the painting, Mr. Minister, and we will ask you for information on which municipalities the painting is disturbing from now on. With regard to the security and security of those sites or entities responsible, in conjunction with municipalities, maximum measures shall not be taken to bring any incidents with negative consequences. I would like to conclude by concluding that all responsible institutions that could have a bearing on the case that we are debating today must have a complete mobilisation and not allow any risks, no gaps in our work. The teams of the Ministry of Environment and Water have these competences, we are in good coordination and I believe that we could manage and not allow any negative consequences for the country and for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. That concludes this item on the agenda. Thank you for your participation, Mr. Minister. Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TAXAL CODEX. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Who's gonna report it? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u45	Mr. President, I ask for a procedure in the Chamber to be admitted to Mrs. Marinella Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, Mrs. Irena Hristova, Head of the Department of Tax Policy, Mr. Borislav Borisov, Deputy Director of Customs and Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u46	I'm putting the tolerance procedure to the vote. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. Please invite the faces. Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u47	The application for the amendment and supplement of the Tax-Supporting Code of Procedure. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u48	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 by: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143yu, para. 3 the words in the order of............................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 6 after the word "supplied', the comma is deleted; (b) c. 7. (aa) in the letter (s) the word (s) shall be replaced by the word (s) of the Member State (s) concerned; (bb) in point (b) (b) the text before the subpoenaing (s) shall be amended as follows: the applicant shall be resident for tax purposes in a jurisdiction which: (c) c. 11 point (d) shall be the comma after the words "or the assets contained therein'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 143a1 para. 6 is amended as follows: The consultant shall provide information on a cross-border tax scheme known to him, owned or controlled by him, within 30 calendar days of the earliest of the following dates: 1. the day following the day on which the tax scheme is granted for implementation; 2. the day following the day on which the tax scheme is ready to allow its implementation; 3. the date on which the first step in the implementation of the tax scheme took place. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 2, p. 3 the word "from' shall be replaced by "in the application of'; (b) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: Where an obligation to submit information on a cross-border tax scheme arises for the taxable person, it should submit the information within 30 calendar days of the earliest of the following dates: 1. the day following the day on which the tax scheme is granted for implementation; 2. the day following the day on which the tax scheme is ready to allow its implementation; 3. the date on which the first step in the implementation of the tax scheme took place. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43ya3 is created. 7. The taxable persons shall indicate in the annual tax return under art. 92 of the Corporate Income Tax Act, respectively under art. 50 of the Law on personal income taxes, whether they apply a cross-border tax scheme and the unique number of the scheme. The information shall be provided in the declaration for each year in which the cross-border tax scheme has a tax effect for the person.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u49	I shall put to the vote the proposals in the version of the Commission under § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u50	Paragraph 1 by importer with the version of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u51	Paragraph 1 by importer with the version of the Commission. "That is right, Mrs. Stoyanova, in order to make it very clear. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u52	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the supplied securities must be secured by sending a back-up message to the central securities register and at the same time notifying the company. The central securities repository shall immediately notify the relevant central securities depositary in which the securities are registered and the relevant regulated market for the covered bond.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u53	I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 2 in the version of the Commission. 120 MPs voted: 117, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u54	Under § 2 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 3, as in art. 278d, para. 1 and 2 words................................................................................................ 143yysssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 143a1 or Art. 143a1 143 s2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u55	I shall put to the vote the proposal in the version of the Commission under § 2, which shall become § 3. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u56	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, in c. The words "the person' shall be replaced by "the person' and shall be replaced by "the person'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u57	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer by the version of the Commission under § 3, which shall become § 4. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u59	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5, and the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 117 MPs: 115, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u60	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: Paragraph 4a is inserted: ,§ 4a. In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 490 para. 5 words the driver's behaviour in road traffic and/or the driver's behaviour shall be taken out. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 the driver's driving behaviour and/or driving behaviour shall be The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the proposal that we have made with fellow Members concerns a change in the Insurance Code and, in particular, the way in which the insurance premium is determined, in relation to the proposed amendments to the system, which, as of 1 January, envisioned all insurances to increase dramatically. A legitimate debate has arisen in society whether this should happen and how exactly it should happen. We therefore made our proposals regarding how the insurance premium is determined, namely: not to affect the driver's behaviour, but to depend only on the damage done by the owner or driver concerned. In the process of examining this proposal, the Budget Commission found that the Ordinance, which was uploaded to the Financial Supervision Commission's website, was not uploaded properly. It should be uploaded to the websites and to two other ministries. That is to say, we do not have a regulation currently providing for an increase in insurance.................................................................................................. This was committed to happen after March and until then to hold a public discussion and debate in society how this insurance should be determined. I will just say that we continue to stand up for the position that it is unacceptable for us that the number of violations committed by the driver to cost civil liability. About whether a leader violates the Road Traffic Act, he pays his sanctions, pays his fines and bears responsibility under the Road Traffic Act. As you all know, we have repeatedly raised the fines and they have to some extent had their effect. The discussion in the Committee on Budget and Finance concluded that we should make this proposal in due order with the Law amending the Insurance Code. We will make such a proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance for allowing this discussion to happen in the Commission. And thank you to the colleagues who participated. I think that in the coming months together we can make sure that all Bulgarian citizens, the drivers, the insurers, feel the regulation that will be adopted, it is fair and that it really does the work for which it is, namely: to pay off the insurances......................... and not to use it to achieve other objectives, by other laws and other measures. And since, as I said, we agreed in the Commission that this should be dealt with in a separate code, I withdraw the proposal in a separate ZID to be dealt with properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Should I still ask for lines? I can't see. Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u64	Just to thank Mr. Svilensky for the right attitude. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 6, with the addition of the words............................................................... the entry into force of this law..................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u65	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6, in the version of the Commission. Voted 118 MPs: 113, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u66	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 6 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 1. 43a3, para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u67	I shall put to the vote the motion to dismiss § 6 by importer. They voted 114 MPs: 110, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u68	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 and § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u69	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer under § 7 and § 8 supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u70	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 10. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In the Customs Act (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 para. 11 is 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 66c: Art. 66c. On a proposal from the Director of the Customs Agency, the Minister of Finance hereby approves a list of high risk goods for the financial interests of the European Union for which increased customs control is carried out. The order, together with the list, is published on the websites of the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 195a: Art. 195a. (1) When verifying the data in an accepted customs declaration for a customs procedure release for free circulation of goods falling within the list under art. 66c, it is established that the declared prices of the goods are lower than the fair prices valid for them in the European Union, the customs authorities require the provision of security. The security shall be provided at a rate which ensures the payment of the customs debt and other claims which may arise on imports calculated on the basis of fair prices for those goods at the time of the declaration. (2) The customs formalities for the declared customs procedure shall continue after the security under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. In §1 of the additional provision, paragraph 1 is created. 40: 40. For each product, origin and Member State of destination, for a multi-year period, usually four consecutive years, the estimates of monthly aggregated data derived from the Eurostat database for detailed statistics on the international trade in goods are estimated. Fair prices shall be made available to the Member States of the European Union through the system of "Theseus" of the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission (Jont Research Centre).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u71	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal in the version of the Commission to create a new § 9. Vote 108 MPs: 104 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u72	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 44 (b) of the Law on In the case of vehicles which have been acquired prior to their initial registration for movement in the country, the name of the vehicle is not applicable. 2. In Annex 4 to Chapter Two, Section VI, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: "1." Accommodation places with not more than 20 rooms, rating one or two stars or registered under the Tourism Act The tax is determined as a room according to the location of the site: from 25 to 250 BGN Report the next one because it's connected. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... For 2020 for accommodations up to 20 rooms registered under the Tourism Act, the amount of patent tax set out in the range of BGN 25 to 250 shall apply. in the relevant regulation under art. 1, para. 2 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for Accommodation Places with Not More than 20 Rooms, One or Two Stars.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u73	I shall put to the vote the proposal in the version of the Commission for the creation of § 10 and § 11. Vote 108 MPs: 100, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u74	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... For assets acquired free of charge in 2019, except for the cases provided for in art. 49, para. 2 and 4 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees for which no tax has been paid upon their acquisition, taxable persons shall submit a tax return for free acquisition of property and shall pay the tax by 31 March 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u75	I shall put to the vote the proposal to create § 12 in the version of the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 95 against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u76	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law the corporate income tax (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 47 d.o.b. 3 is amended as follows: In determining the tax profit under para. 2, p. 1 tax loss determined in accordance with this law in previous tax periods: 1. shall be deducted consistently until its exhaustion over the next 5 years from its occurrence, subject to the requirements of Chapter 11, only from the tax profits of the same controlled foreign company or from the tax profits of another controlled foreign company in the same foreign country from which it originated; 2. shall not be deducted from the tax profits of the taxable person from a source in the country or other countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u77	Thank you. I shall put to the vote a proposal to establish § 13 in the version of the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 100, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u78	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes the creation of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The order of Art. 47d, para. 3, p. 1 of the Corporate Income Tax Act applies to tax losses incurred after 31 December 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u79	I shall put to the vote the proposal to create § 14 in the version of the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 98, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u80	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) in art. 53, para. 2, p. 2 shall be added at the end by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u81	I shall put to the vote the proposal in the version of the Commission for the creation of § 15. They voted 107 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u82	According to § 9 an importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. It relates to the first proposal Mr. Svilensky withdrew.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u83	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u84	We confirm it's been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u85	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... The Act shall enter into force from 1 January 2020, with the exception of § 1 and § 3. 8 which shall enter into force from 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u86	I shall put to the vote the proposal in the version of the Commission for § 9, which shall become § 16. They voted 118 MPs: 111, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. We are also running out of work on this item on the agenda. Moving on to: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COLLECTION OF THE COLLECTION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE WORK OF THE COLLECTION-INVESTIVES AND OTHER COLLECTION-INVESTATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u87	Colleagues, first, very consolidated for admission in the hall with the green button for: Marinela Petrova
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u88	Please declare a vote under the admission procedure. Vote 116 MPs: 113 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u89	A draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Activities of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment undertakings. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u90	I put to the vote the proposal for the name of the Law. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. Before you continue, Mr. Kanev, let's congratulate you on today's birthday, wish you health and many successes, [[(Applause and cheering:]] And hopefully the law will go smoothly today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u91	At least I can guarantee you that. Thanks for the round of applause. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u92	I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u93	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: A collective investment scheme may include in its name a money market fund, a money market fund, or other designation in Bulgarian or foreign language, suggesting that it is a money market fund only if it meets the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on money market funds (OB, L 169/8 of 30 June 2017).), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 2. In para. 5 the word "Signature' is replaced by "Signature'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u94	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 in the version of the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u95	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u96	I shall put to the vote the proposals of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 112, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u97	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 6 after the words "systemically violates the provisions of this law" is added to the Law on measures against money laundering and the words "in its application" are replaced by "in their application." 2. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the word "taken" is replaced by "can be taken away." 3. The creation of para. 3: The Commission may withdraw the licence issued as a money market fund, respectively the authorisation to organise and manage a money market fund in the cases referred to in para. 1 and 2 and in the cases referred to in art. 41 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1131.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u98	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8 in the version of the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u100	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for § 9 supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u101	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva for the creation of a new § 10. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 para. 1 is amended as The Depository cannot be the same person as the management company of the collective investment scheme.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u102	I put to the vote the proposal, supported by the Commission, to create a new § 10. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u104	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 11. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u105	Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva for the creation of new paragraphs 12 and 13. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 12 and 13: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: the 34th sentence third is deleted; § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35a, para. 4 in the text before t. 1 after the words have been received and the amount of the collective investment scheme's cash is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u106	I shall put to the vote the proposal to create new paragraphs 12 and 13 in the version of the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u107	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u108	I shall put to the vote the proposals of the importer for paragraphs 11 and 12 which become paragraphs 14 and 15 respectively. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u109	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the shares of the same undertaking' shall be replaced by "the shares of the same collective investment scheme or other undertaking'. 2. In para. 3 the words "others' shall be added after the words "of the sale and redemption of the shares of this collective investment scheme' and the words "of the investment collective investment scheme' shall be replaced by "of the investment collective investment scheme' in the sale and redemption of the shares of collective investment schemes or other collective investment undertakings in which it invests'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u110	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission under § 13, which shall become § 16. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u111	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 shall be created: "Significant influence within the meaning of the sentence first exists in the cases of direct or indirect possession of 20 percent or more of the votes in the general assembly of an issuer determined pursuant to art. 145 and 146 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 2. In para. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u112	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission under § 14, which shall become § 17. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u113	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 19. I shall put to the vote the proposals of the importer referred to in paragraphs 15 and 16, which shall become 18 and 19 respectively. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u114	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. 1, t. 1 shall be added at the end as required by the International Accounting Standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u115	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission under § 17, which shall become § 20. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u116	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u117	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer under § 18, which shall become § 21. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u118	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.In para. 2 words. 1 and 3' are replaced by "al'. 1 or 3s and a fourth sentence shall be created:.......................................................................................................................................................... 26 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 as regards management companies. 2.In para. 7 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted 3.Create para. 11: The conditions and procedure for issuing an authorisation under art. 26 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of a management company shall be determined by a decree.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u119	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 19, which shall become § 22 of the Commission Report. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u120	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 1 after the words the year of use is added, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the International Accounting Standards.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u121	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 23, supported by the Commission, and the version of § 21, which shall become § 24 of the Commission Report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u122	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 25 by proposing in paragraph 2. 1 the words................................................... For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 in the text before t. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 words shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27. Under Paragraph 25, we have one technical amendment. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 28, by proposing in the text prior to that. 1 the words "and supplement" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u123	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 25, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 23, which becomes § 26, supported by the Commission; § 24, which becomes § 27, supported by the Commission, and the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 28, supported by the Commission with the corresponding amendment. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u124	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29, and shall propose in point 2. 1 the words................................................................................................. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5 words are placed comma and deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33, by proposing in paragraph 1. 2 words shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u125	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29 respectively, supported by the Commission by the relevant changes; paragraphs 27, 28 and 29 by importer, which shall become respectively paragraphs 30, 31 and 32, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33 with the corresponding amendment and the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 34, respectively, supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u126	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 the following amendments shall be made: 1.In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words which have obtained the right to operate in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under the heading of Chapter 10a 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 37 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u127	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 32, which shall become § 35 of the Commission Report, and the text of the importer for paragraphs 33, 34, 35 and 36, which shall become respectively paragraphs 36, 37, 38 and 39, supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u128	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; b) c. 6 after the words this law is added to the Law on measures against money laundering and the word "moo" is replaced by "moo" is replaced by "moo." 2.In para. 2, in the text before t. 1 the word "taken" is replaced by "can be taken away." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185 after the words "rules" The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 191 the following additions are made: 1.In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: The annual financial statement shall be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of International Accounting Standards. 2.In para. 2, p. 1 after the words the statement is added, prepared according to the requirements of the International Accounting Standards. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u129	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 37, which becomes § 40 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer of § 38, which becomes § 41, supported by the Commission; the version of § 39, which becomes § 42 of the Commission Report, the version of § 40, which becomes § 43 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer of § 41, which becomes § 44, supported by the Commission; paragraphs 42, 43 and 44, which become paragraphs 45, 46 and 47 respectively, supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u130	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 48, by proposing in paragraph 4. 1 the words................................................................................................. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 words shall be placed comma and deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 49. The Commission proposes to create a new § 50: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2 words. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 51, by proposing in paragraph 47. 1 the words................................................................................................. In addition, the Commission notes that it is not possible to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 words shall be placed comma and deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 52, by proposing in point. 3 the word "new" to be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 53. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 226, para. 1 after the words There's a proposal from Mrs. Saveklieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u131	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 45, which becomes § 48 with the corresponding amendments supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 46, which becomes § 49, supported by the Commission; the new § 50, the text of the importer for § 47, which becomes § 51 with the corresponding amendments supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 48, which becomes § 52 with the corresponding deletion of the word 3; the text of the importer for § 49, which becomes § 53, supported by the Commission; the version of § 50, which becomes § 54 of the Commission Report and the newly created § 55. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 51, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u132	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 56 by proposing in para. 8 the words "the European Securities and Markets Authority (Securities) " to be replaced by "Securities and Markets Authority (Securities) '; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 235 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words "in the committee', the competent authority of the home Member State of the relevant alternative investment fund shall be added as appropriate where that authority is different from the home Member State of the relevant alternative investment fund. 2. In para. 3 shall be added to the website of the alternate investment fund manager, up to 4 months from the end of the financial year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 237, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 shall be added at the end as well as upon request. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Point 1 (d) (i) (i) (ii) is replaced by the following: The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 55, which becomes § 60 by proposing that the words........................................................................................ 1.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 62. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 58, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251, para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words "alternative investment fund" The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u133	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 58, which shall be, respectively, § 56 with the corresponding amendments supported by the Commission; the version of § 52, which shall become § 57 by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 58 by the Commission; the version of § 54 by the Commission report; the wording of the importer for § 55, which shall be § 60 by the relevant amendments supported by the Commission; the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 61, the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 62 by the Commission; the version of § 58 by the Commission report; the text of the importer for § 59 and § 60, which shall become respectively § 64 and § 65, supported by the Commission. There is a technical flaw on my part. The text of the importer for § 51, which becomes § 56 with the corresponding changes supported by the Commission, we also vote. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Boychev, paragraph 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u134	Under § 61, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Saveklieva: In § 61, points of 4 are created. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 273 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 words "al." 1, 6 and 13 and shall be replaced by.......................................................................................................... 1, 6 and 14. (b) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." Regulation (EU) 2017/1131 and/or its implementing acts shall be punished with a fine of BGN 10 000 to BGN 20 000.;................................................................. c) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 (d) the so-called t. 8 becomes t. 9 and in it the words "Article 6' shall be replaced by "Article 4'. Art. 5 and 6, Art. 6.................................................................................................. 10, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 10 a.m., after the words "art." 18, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 37, para. 8.................................................................................................. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 1 and 3................................................................................................ 93, para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M2, N2, N2, N2, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N3, N1 and N1 and N1 are replaced by N1. 93, para. One, two, four and five. 98, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 194, para. Art. 4, Art. 197, para. Art. 11, art. 216, para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): (e) the current t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 10 and in it the words......................................................................................... 101, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No (f) the current t. 10 becomes t. 11 and in it the words. 86, para. 6 "8" shall be replaced by "c." 86, para. 6.8 sssssssssssss, 10sssssssss; (g) the current t. 11 is going to be a t. 12. 2. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." for infringements under para. 1, t. 7 - from 20,000 to 40,000 leva.;................................................................. b) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 8 And in it the words speak. The following points are c) the current t. 8 becomes t. 9 and in it the words speak. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) (d) the so-called t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is (e) the current t. 10 becomes t. 11 and in it the words speak. The following points are inserted after point 10 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for the (f) the current t. 11 is going to be a t. 12 and in it the words speak. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 12ss and 12s; 3. In para. 5. (a) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." for infringements under para. 1, t. 7 - from 20,000 to 40,000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement - from 40,000 to 100 000 BGN.;................................................................. b) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 8 And in it the words speak. The following points are c) the current t. 8 becomes t. 9 and in it the words speak. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) (d) the so-called t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 (e) the current t. 10 becomes t. 11 and in it the words speak. The following points are inserted after point 10 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for the (f) the current t. 11 is going to be a t. 12 and in it the words speak. the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 12ss and 12s; (g) the current t. 12 is going to be t. 13. 4. A new para is being created. 6: The Commission and the Vice-President provide or allow false information regarding the activities of a management company, an alternative investment fund manager, a collective investment scheme or another collective investment undertaking to be provided shall be punished by a fine of 1000 to 10 000 BGN and, in case of repeated infringement, from 2000 to 50 000 BGN, if the act does not constitute a crime. 5. The creation of para. 7. For infringement under para. 6 legal persons are subject to a penalty of 2000 to 20 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 100 000 BGN................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u135	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 61, which shall become § 66 of the Commission Report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, half an hour's rest. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u136	Colleagues, let's get back to work. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u137	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 62, which shall become § 67: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 275 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the Vice-President and the Vice-President' shall be replaced by "the Vice-President', respectively, shall be disclosed and after the words "the President's office' shall be added. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Commission, after having carried out an assessment in each specific case of whether the disclosure of personal data for a natural person or identity data for a legal person may cause damage to investors, the person to whom the forced administrative measure has been applied, is accordingly subject to the penalty and/or to the persons concerned who are not involved in the infringement, and whether the publication of the information would jeopardise the stability of the financial markets or affect criminal proceedings, may: 1. delay the disclosure of the information under para. 1; 2. to disclose the information under para. 1 without details of the person to whom the measure is applied, the penalty is imposed accordingly; 3. do not publish the information under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Commission shall, respectively, take a decision under para. 3, p. 3 when the delay of disclosure under para. 3, p. 1 or disclosure of the information under para. 1, t. 2 are not sufficient to ensure that the stability of financial markets will not be compromised or where the effect of the publication of the information would be disproportionate to the gravity of the infringement. 4. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: If the grounds under paragraph 5 of this Article are dropped, the Commission shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of the reasons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 The committee, respectively the Vice-President, shall disclose the information under para. 1 in full volume. (6) The Vice-President shall disclose any information relating to an appeal against forced administrative measures and criminal decrees which have been disclosed. It is also subject to disclosure that the decisions by which forced administrative measures or criminal decrees have been repealed are repealed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u138	Wait, Mr. Boychev. Colleagues, I ask that we reduce the movement in the Chamber and the conversations to a very high voice, because it is not being heard well. Thank you, colleagues, for the silence. Continue, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u139	It's five o'clock. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The Commission shall establish conditions for the information referred to in para. 1 to remain published on its website for a period of not less than 5 years, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8 and in it, after the word "the Vice-President" is added. 7. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u140	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 62, which shall become § 67. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 68.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u142	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for § 63, which shall become § 68. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u143	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 69, together with the tables attached.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u144	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for the name of the division and for § 64, which shall become § 69. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u145	Under § 65, there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva: The following amendments and additions are made in § 65. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 65, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 t. 7 is amended as follows: "7." alternative investment fund managers and alternative investment funds managed by them, including venture capital funds, social entrepreneurship funds or long-term investment funds; 2. In the annex to art. 27, para. 1 in Section I, point I: (a) Row 16 is amended as follows: The following tables are attached.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u146	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 65, which shall become § 70. [[Relations between the rapporteur and the President.]] Excuse me. Cancel the vote. There's something else you need to read.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u147	(b) Row 16 shall be followed by rows 16a to 16. And, respectively, the attached tables.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u148	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 65, which shall become § 70. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u149	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 66, which shall become § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) A new para shall be created. 10: A company providing public electronic communications networks and/or services which has failed to fulfil its obligation under art. 281, para. 5, shall be punished with a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 20 000 to 100 000 BGN. (b) The current para. 10, 11 and 12 become respectively. 11, 12 and 13. 2. In the Law amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act in § 80 of the transitional and final provisions, the word
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u150	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer under § 66, which shall become § 71 in the version of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u151	A proposal by the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva is created § 72 and § 73. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, and the proposal for the creation of § 73 is reflected in its systematic position in § 71, i.e. 2. The Commission proposes to establish § 72: ................. In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 128 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words and persons under art. 131, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 shall be replaced by settled markets, respectively market operators, central securities depositories and institutions of interest. 2. In para. 4 the words of the persons referred to in art. 131, para. 2, p. 4 and 5 shall be replaced by
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u152	I put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 72. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u153	Dear colleagues, let's celebrate the birthday of the esteemed President Mr. Kanev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u154	That's what we're running out of work on this point. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE THE DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING OF 19 SEPTEMBER 2017 WITH REGARD TO THE DISCLOSURES OF THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES LIGHTS AND GEORGI GYOKOV TO THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOOD AND GREEN ROMAN ABOUT THE POLICY OF THE MINISTRY OF EARTH, FOOD AND GORGEES TO ESTABLISH A RENETICS (two, B.B. 77 Since 2017), as amended by Decision of the People's Council of 12 October 2018 (DW, BW. 85 From 2018) AND DECISION OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 27 FEVRUARY 2019 (DW, BW. 19 Since 2019) [[importers: MARIA BEVA AND GROUP OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES ON 6 DECEMBER 2019]] . Here you are, Mrs. Belova, to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, please put to the vote for admission in Mrs. Vergina Krasteva's room.. Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u156	Please vote on the admission procedure. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the room. Mrs. Belova, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u157	♪ I can't believe on a draft decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the establishment of order in the land relations (GW, SG No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018) and decision of the National Assembly of 27 February 2019. (DV, No. 19 from 2019) The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 December 2019 discussing the draft decision cited. The meeting of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry was attended by: Vergenia Krasteva The draft decision was presented by the MP Alexander Matsurev. He explained that the project was submitted in connection with a Report approved at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers, which draws attention to the negative opinions received in the course of the public consultation procedure and the inter-agency coordination procedure. It is also noted that the preparation for the new programming period 2021 requires a revision of national legislation in order to comply with the specific objectives of the new common agricultural policy. In this regard, the report proposes to extend again for at least one year the period within which the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should submit to the Council of Ministers a draft single legislation governing public relations in land use in Bulgaria. In the light of the foregoing, the Project proposes to amend Item II of the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017, providing for the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry after the necessary public consultation to submit to the Council a draft legislation governing public relations in land use in Bulgaria, which will be drawn up on the basis of the already presented Analysis of the regulatory regulation of public relations in land use and Strategy for the Management and Development of Land Property in Bulgaria and which will comply with the requirements of the new Common Agricultural Policy. In the subsequent discussion, MPs from the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" said they would support the Decision Project, as this would allow the existing restrictive regime to be maintained with regard to the sale of agricultural land to foreign citizens, but noted that this is the most important bill in the agriculture sector for the entire management mandate and should its development be postponed, a specific deadline for its submission should be set. From the parliamentary group of the European Parliament, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, pointed out that in the presented public discussion, the bill lacks the overall concept of what agriculture should be developed in our country. They expressed the belief that reaching consensus on the bill would be extremely difficult, given the large number of stakeholders and often conflicting interests of individual entities, but still insisted a deadline for its presentation to be set. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, the bill announced for public discussion does not meet the initial objective of the decision to create a comprehensive regulation of land relations in the country, which will ensure a better balance in relations between the owners and the users of agricultural land. In this sense, they agreed that it was necessary to postpone it, but insisted on a much wider representation of the participants in the forthcoming debate and a specific deadline for the preparation of a new project. The representatives of NGOs presented some of their comments on the bill and their arguments for extending the deadline for its presentation. They recalled that the bill concerns constitutionally established and protected citizens' rights, as is the right of ownership, which is inviolable, and insisted that all interested parties take part in the drafting of the new project. After the debates, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes for the Council, without the opposition of the People's Representatives Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision amending the decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the People's Representatives of Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations (no, SG No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (prom., D.V., No. 85 from 2018) and decision of the National Assembly of 27 February 2019. (prom., D.V., No. 19 from 2019) (Thank you very much.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. I'm opening the debate on the proposed project. Please come in for a statement. [[Heckling]] Please clearly state your wish to speak. I can't see yet. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see that there is some excitement among the rulers that some will take the floor at all. I take the floor, first of all, because I am one of the importers of this question, on which there is a solution, secondly, to remind you a little about the chronology of this decision. On 13 July 2017, I am paying attention to 2017 Professor Bachvarova and I asked the Minister of Agriculture and Food about the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to create order in the land relations. On 8 September 2017, we were also answered with the signatures of 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. On 19 September, once again, I emphasise the 2017 debate in question. Then the decision, which obliges the Minister until 31 December 2017, was adopted, and I stress again that he should present to the National Assembly, an analysis of the regulations and Strategy for the Management and Development of Land Property in Bulgaria, and that he should submit to the National Assembly a draft single legislative act to settle land relations in the Republic of Bulgaria by the end of October 2018. At the end of September 2018, a Law on Land Relations and the Conservation of Agricultural Land was published in implementation of the Decision. This bill has been discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Food and it has been decided that it does not comply with the decision of the National Council and the mandate determined by this decision and an extension of the deadline has been proposed. On 12 October 2018, a decision of the National Assembly on the submission of the new bill was extended until 28 February 2019. In December 2018, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry was again presented for public discussion until 16 January 2019 a new law on ownership, land relations and the conservation of agricultural land. There was a serious public reaction, extreme discontent with the proposed regulations in the ownership and use of agricultural land. There followed a correction of the Draft and a decision of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry through the Council of Ministers to continue the public discussion until 27 February 2019. Thus, in practice, the deadline set by the National Assembly was not respected. Due to the continuing discontent and inability to adopt the Draft Law, a new decision of the National Assembly of 21 February 2019 was followed, which once again extended the deadline for the Minister of Agriculture to submit to the National Assembly after the necessary public discussion a draft of a single legislative act confirming public relations in land use, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. The aim was again to ensure the protection of agricultural land as national wealth and to create a basis for sustainable development of agriculture. The new deadline was set for 31 December 2019. In the implementation of the decision within the framework of the extended once again period, a new law on land relations and the conservation of agricultural land was published for public discussion in September. Again followed sharp and, I would say, justified public reactions to disapproval, again withdrawal of the Bill two or three weeks ago. A new decision, tabled on 6 December 2019 by a group of MPs from GERB, for a change again for the extension of the deadline, but now very clever In connection with the need to comply with the legislative framework with the requirements of the new common agricultural policy, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry after the necessary public discussion to submit to the Council of Ministers a draft legislative act establishing public relations in the use in Bulgaria. I mean, I'm sorry for the comparison, but with one line from a Bulgarian movie: Dad will buy me a bike, but another time. What comes from all this delay? You have seen that since 2017, for the third year, we have been wandering somewhere in the midst of legislation and we cannot resolve the issue. What comes from, what lies, what sees behind this delay? Firstly, the inability and unwillingness of this government to solve ill agricultural problems and, in particular, the use of agricultural land in all its aspects. Secondly, the government's old weakness in drafting legislative acts is not to invite all stakeholders to participate in order to be able to reach consensus in subsequent public discussions. Thirdly, after a full mandate failed the ruling majority to make a qualitative legislative act to regulate public land use relations, the government transferred the hot potato to those who will manage after them. Because in the so-defined decision: a legislative framework with the requirements of the new common agricultural policy..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Small tenants not only small tenants, but all tenants will continue to work under imperfect and confused legislation for at least two more years. Reasoning logically, it is probably better to postpone the adoption of such an extremely important law, which will practically reform public relations, the use of agricultural land, than to adopt a law that does not solve the problems of agriculture, but deepens them. However, there is no way to overlook the fact that you had an entire mandate to do this thing to regulate land relations, and you didn't. I would mention that reforms not only in the social sphere, in the field of agriculture, but also in all public spheres are made under conditions of social tension, discontent and pressure, which does not result in good results. Public consensus is required and participation in the process of reform, preparation, public discussion, adoption and implementation of relevant legislation of all stakeholders under the active involvement and monitoring of the state. Such a bill must not only have the ambitious goal of bringing together the existing Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, including the lease contracts, not only the mechanical unification, but also solving all the problems arising from the implementation of the current legislation, and there are not few. I would say that in the years of the transition in Bulgaria, it has been built and established the rent agriculture, which covers, by expert assessment, more than 75% of the arable land in Bulgaria, and the real owners of agricultural land, which is at least 2 million, without claims of accuracy on my part, are forced by all the land-use relations that exist so far, and which you do not want to change, to become some tenants and thus to enter into a feudal dependence on the tenants, and mostly by the large landowners, which people call among themselves agro-oligars, as they are totally deprived of information, unable to defend their elementary rights and interests and are stricken with long-term lease contracts with cleverly invented clauses that damage them, at this time with the possibility of unlimited continuation. The Arendators dictate all conditions and behave like masters, and the owner of the land obeys only to take some and another lev. I will not continue to motivate why this law was necessary, and as soon as possible. I'll just say that on the back of the landowners, many tenants have become millionaires, slowing down payments or not paying at all. On top of that, the state tolerates them and pays them additional European funds outside the subsidies per unit of area, and now for two more years these people will not receive a fair rent for their land based on its extraction, not on the distorted monopoly market dictated by the agroligar cartels. Therefore, BSP insists on reforming agriculture through the new legislation and in the specific case of the management and use of agricultural land, legislation to ensure that the owner of the land will not be less important than the tenant, legislation to ensure that everyone who has ownership, agricultural land receives economic realization of this property, and this can only be done through fair rent. It is time for the National Assembly to finally draw up and adopt a new law for the settlement of public relations in agriculture, the use of agricultural land, the lease in agriculture. Once again delaying the adoption of adequate legislation, we deprive small landowners of the opportunity to dispose freely of their land and receive a fair share of the harvest as a rent. Why didn't the state strongly intervene in the creation of legal opportunities, intervene and create order and sustainability in land relations? We will refrain from supporting this yet another blurry extension and delaying justice in public relations in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u161	Madam President, honourable Members! The colleague Gokov made a brief retrospective of the path of this act of the National Assembly, to which, if I may quote, his main task is to bring order to the land relations. In this decision and in the debates held in the adoption of the decisions, it has not in any case been said and it was not intended to bring together bills and to have a common law that solves absolutely all problems related to the ownership and management of agricultural land. Rather, serious issues were discussed in the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, such as land management, which is returned to real borders, meadows and pastures, the way and order in which they are provided, especially by municipalities and the distortion of that order sometimes. The Landing Act commented on issues that were mostly related to the commitment that those who manage the land are obliged to pay, and a fair rent, which in fact also raises a number of problems. The lease law itself is quite schematic. It gives opportunities for very broad interpretations and when concluding the lease contracts there are very bad practices, and so on. The idea was not to unite bills, but to really create regulations in all these four laws. The law on the conservation of agricultural property and the law on the conservation of agricultural land to correspond to each other, to protect the owners, and also to ensure that those who use the land have some security in relation to the contracts with which they apply, with which they receive European funds. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests did not understand this task, did not appreciate what should be done and for the second time in a row offered us some pieces of four bills. I am saying the works and the fact that in addition to the mechanical unification, there are quite a lot of arsenals related to the implementation of specific texts, which mostly harm landowners with the assumption that ownership is inviolable, and in practice the last draft, which was proposed in public discussion, had not taken into account at all and this created serious problems. The suspension of the bill is at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers, as one of the objections that has been made for the postponement and the work to start right from point zero is that this bill does not correspond to art. 10 of the Law on Legislative Acts, which basically means that the direction we unite laws and work on them is not correct. It says that if there are to be changes, these changes must be in the laws in force, but, again, I say, in coordination with the texts of these laws in a way to protect landowners. The second objection, which should also not be ignored, and this happens for the second time in terms of the laws of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, is related to the fact that there was an extremely large negative reaction by landowners and not only by them and by those who manage the land. What does that mean? We're practically shutting down the leases. It's a relationship between two countries. How is it that we terminate a lease contract because some new bill comes in.. something almost unheard of and unthinkable from the point of view of law in Bulgaria, from the point of view of protection the interests of two parties who have concluded a contract and who cooperate? Another question is how will the implementation of the contracts and the way in which they are implemented be settled from now on? This collaboration, which is produced in the Law, this mixing of rights, responsibilities and interference of the state in these relations, really provoked extremely serious protests. We are to extend the deadline because in practice we do not have a prepared bill to debate. What is proposed has no way of being fixed, that is, there has to be an extension of the deadline, but we are against the fact that the prospect of this bill becoming a fact is 2022, that is, beyond the limits of this National Assembly. To tell you the truth, with such a prospect, I have never worked since I was in Parliament and it seems a little unthinkable to leave time for the administration for three more years to think, to work, that is, with this deadline they will not work at all. In the reasons, when we were debating, we said that we wanted a strategy for land relations, because land relations are something very conservative. They cannot be changed within a short period of time, nor can ownership or management be re-fassed within such short time limits. However, we did not say that this should be until the adoption of a strategic plan on the common agricultural policy. The strategic plan on the common agricultural policy is irrelevant to land relations. The European Commission has never had any relation to what land relations we have in Bulgaria. It ensures that the land is managed, that there are good practices, that there is stability in the management of this land, but that there is no ownership and how these relationships between owners and users are regulated. It seems absurd to me that we do not have a time limit and that this period is a hypothesis in the adoption of the new regulations of the common agricultural policy. The reasons are set out in January 1, 2022. We are against this deadline. The Council of Ministers says: at least one year. At least one year "Month of January 2021." Is that correct? Please, let us get this administration to work, let them do public discussions with a wide range of specialists, have a discussion about their concept in the Committee on Agriculture and Food and say what they want and how they understand it. Because if there is no framework, a philosophy of what we will do, every attempt to present a new bill will be a complete failure. We've had one failure, now the failure of the second bill is complete. Since I don't want to take the floor anymore, I'm seriously impressed with what should contain the strategic plan that hasn't been discussed at any level? We had questions in the Commission. In addition to the fact that there is a slot analysis, there will be a strategic plan after one year. What it says is that there will be a strategic plan and it will once again confuse with very obscene practices in the ownership and use of agricultural land, it seems absurd to me. To focus the Ministry on the strategic plan of what agriculture we want and how we will manage the funds in a way where we have added value, but the property in the way it is described here is: first, second, third, fourth, fifth... I'm sorry, I can't agree that this will be an element of the strategic plan. We want a Strategy for Land Relations, not a strategic plan to solve the problems of Bulgarian agriculture in the short term, that is, in the time of a programming period under the common agricultural policy. I propose that we have a Bill and we will support the decision as a whole because we understand that there should be, but with a different approach in terms of the Ministry's work and also our commitment and participation to do what is necessary, to present our views on whether they will be accepted, whether not, but there is a debate. It precedes the actual work, which is the smaller question and problem, rather than the philosophy of the changes we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Come in, Mr. Petrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u163	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a reply on the occasion of the time when this law must be adopted and the adoption of the common agricultural policy, respectively the Strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, then the common national strategy. These things are absolutely connected. I disagree with what Professor Piralkova said that they had nothing to do with each other. You know how long we're in. On 31 January, the United Kingdom left the European Union, therefore it was no accident to suspend Macedonia and Albania's accession to the European Union because of the forthcoming amendments in the European Union at all, which, I am convinced, will significantly affect the common agricultural policy. Of course, in their managements, the BSP, which has very strong specialists in the sector, could adopt such a common law. Why didn't they accept it, I don't know. But now, when it is right to adopt this law, it must be well thought out and updated, as Bulgaria, of course, cannot, in a corresponding European assignment, forcefully amend its legislation. No, contrary, Bulgaria must comply with the new conditions that are in the European Union and we do not know what they will be. Perhaps this will become clear in the middle of next year. It is not right for us to adopt a law that the opposition will then start criticising that it does not meet the new conditions of the European Union. Of course, we must postpone and wait for the new conditions for the Law to be written. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Petrov, colleagues! Since July 2017 is the decision of the National Assembly. The result is not what everyone expects, including the representatives of the National Assembly who have done the discussions. The common agricultural policy has no bearing on land relations. The strategic plan is for the development of agriculture, not for land relations. And what are you going to do in the Strategic Plan? The right to use agricultural land will this be the Strategic Plan? Do we not know what the right to use agricultural land is? Everywhere is recorded a way of lasting use of properties, permanent grasslands. Well, they're used as permanent grasslands, public property, and there's nothing to change there, but we're doing a bill on lawns and pastures. Creating agricultural land-use arrays a practice that is controversial requires debate. This says it's going to be part of the Strategic Plan. It has nothing to do with land relations. That's why there has to be a deadline. You have to work and really achieve the philosophy of the development of land relations, which is 20, 30, 40, 50 years. There have been farms in France for 100 years, no change in land relations. What do we do? One year we are 96,000 farmers, next year we become 85,000 farmers. This means that we have land relations that do not allow for stable land processing, stable structures and protection of the owner. I can't make it any clearer than that. There must therefore be a time limit and work on this issue with broad consensus. I must have said that five times. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u167	Madam President, honourable Members! The Negotiators.. colleague Gokov and Professor Bachvarova made an in-depth analysis of the entire chronology of this bill. It dates from four years ago and I quote from memory the then Minister of Agriculture Desislava Taneva: After her, unfortunately, and Rumen Porozhanov ended his mandate... the law still did not. Desislava Taneva is again a minister and there is no law on land. In detail what the Law provides and what the disputed parties have agreed.. I will not enter either, because the topic is complex and specific enough. These details were discussed by the colleague Bachvarova, the chronology was addressed by my colleague Gyokov, and my speech will rather be focused on two topics. Firstly, the way in which this bill is tabled and the time limits. It's clear to everyone that the subject is complicated enough. Colleagues, stakeholders of this law are millions of.2 million and something owners, thousands of users, tenants, environmental organizations, branch organizations. So there is no way to achieve full consensus because interests are diametrically different, opposite. The number of interested parties is huge. So if the importers and the government think they're going to reach a full consensus on this law, that's just not going to happen. Before I get to the point, I'm going to try to ask you a riddle: What is the common thing between the renovation of the Western Park, the toll system and the Land Law? The general thing is that all three things are postponed once again. [[(Laughter) Partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Unfortunately, once again, colleagues, we are delaying the adoption of this very important law. I am now speaking to you seriously because this law is expected by millions of landowners, many users, many tenants, many cooperatives, many people who want to build, many people who have green ideas and do not want to build, but once again we come to another delay. I said I wouldn't stop at the substance, more the way it was imported. After all these years, I say, colleagues, a discussion in different forms, after such a long co-ordination procedure in the Council of Ministers between all ministries, after all last week the Council of Ministers came up with a decision proposing that this bill be postponed by one year. Today, the importers, Members of Parliament, propose that this period should not be bound by an end date but rather be bound by the adoption of the new common agricultural policy. I will return to the common agricultural policy in a moment. The way we import it. Dear importers, do you know if the Prime Minister knows about this idea, does the Council of Ministers know about this idea? Because with this proposal you are kind of blaming the Council of Ministers and offering something different than what he proposed. In our time, the Ministry of Agriculture has not been able to blam the Council of Ministers or its Prime Minister. Imagine this bill - this amendment to the deadline - had been passed in the most natural way, again through the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers itself, I am absolutely certain that it would not have proposed this way to bind the deadline to the new common agricultural policy, but would have fixed a deadline, as they have fixed: a deadline for the Council of Ministers. About the deadline. Colleagues propose that this period be linked to the adoption of the new common agricultural policy. Firstly, colleagues, the new common agricultural policy has nothing to do with land relations. The common agricultural policy has to do with the way it is supported, the way it is financed, the general line, the general position in agriculture, green measures, carbon emissions and so on. The common agricultural policy has nothing to do with the fundamental laws of member states concerning ownership and land relations. Surely no one in this House can convince me that countries such as Germany and France will change their laws on land ownership and use on the basis of some common agricultural policy in some period from 2020 to 2027, provided that these laws are from Napoleon's time. So there is no need to compare the adoption of the property law for agricultural land and their use to the common agricultural policy. These are two incompatible and indivisible concepts. For the deadline. What is proposed is that the time limit is bound by the new common agricultural policy, firstly, it is essentially not true because we are comparing two incompatible things and, secondly, no one is clear when the new common agricultural policy will come into force. Whose decision? A decision from the Commission, the Council or Parliament? Today, there is a dispute in Europe about the transition period to the new common agricultural policy, should it be one year or two? The old member states, the big member states, insist on a two-year transition period. This means that the common agricultural policy in question, which we want to be attached to, will be at the earliest in two years. If it is going to be two years from now, colleagues, we are going outside of this Parliament and beyond this ministry. In a word, our parliament, our ministries, from now on, are refusing to work on the issue of settlement of land relations. Excuse me, but this is translated in just one way. We are signing our complete incompetence that we cannot deal with this problem and, secondly, abdicating the government on the issue of settlement of land relations in the country. The two-year delay means only one thing that again after two years the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will be entrusted with the responsibility to solve the country's important problems of land relations. [[(Radio.) Noise.)]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u168	Thank you, dear Lord Abase. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u169	Madam President, honourable Members! From now on, it has become clear that the Law must be postponed. The disputes about the date, about who will make the Law in the next term, because, agree, even after one year's term: what will come on 20 December next year? Then we go on a Christmas break and then there's an election. Either way, until the elections, this law is so complicated and so extensive that nothing can happen on it within six months. Did the Ministry do its job? We had concerns, our colleagues very well know that on this topic I spoke as far as the mechanical collection of laws in a single law was concerned. Of course, delaying is necessary because the interests in all these laws are different, as the pre-speakers have also said, radically opposite interests. And here is the question: the state, because some of our colleagues say yes, the constitutional right to property, we have to protect the owners, but shouldn't we think a little about the users and those people who produce? So the Ministry and we must, first, give direction about: who is more important in this process, who gives added value in the Bulgarian economy? The one who produces and imports a product, or the one who receives the rent? No one will ever dare from this tribune to say that they will tax the agricultural lands, especially the small ones, right? So the law is needed, even more with this delay, and we are procrastinating something very important. By this law we also postpone the sale of Bulgarian agricultural land to foreigners. I sincerely hope that there will be no change in this view of the Commission and the Ministry. The other option is that each one of the laws in this bill, the mechanically united four, be dealt with and imported texts under each individual law, as this law is not yet in legal peace, it is in public discussion. There is nothing to prevent us, of course, from bringing changes to each of the laws that are included in this bill. Including one law hasn't been touched in the last 30 years, as far as I know. So we have a year to work, not only the Ministry, but we have plenty of time for parliamentary groups, including those MPs who want to make proposals on each of the laws separately. We'll make it easier for the Ministry. Of course, so many people in one place can't collect them. As Mr. Abase said, between a million and two million people are interested in these land relations...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u170	Three million.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u171	Three million, corrects me, Madam President, three million are interested. We cannot lightly decide, without public discussion, detailed discussion, of each group of people with interest in these laws, there is no way we can cut and say these are right, others are wrong or take someone's side. So the Ministry will have plenty of time to make meetings, to make discussions and to find a thin line in which neither one or the other will be much harmed, because never, all of us know, there is no law from which there is no dissatisfied, there will always be dissatisfied, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, there will always be someone who will not be satisfied with what the Law has achieved. However, it is this delay by at least one year or, as they propose, until the adoption of the common agricultural policy, that is the right solution. Because imagine in the next National Assembly, even if we accept the date one year, we for three months or four months cannot accept this law................... all agree on this fact. And we will get somewhere, and there will be a new National Assembly, and the new National Assembly may have a completely different vision and not agree with any of what we have done, including the vision of the Ministry, you understand it yourself. I hope that the new government will not turn back the wheel of history and rule again some people who will make a mark for whom we are going to look for an account of who, when and where he has done, including the colleague Abas, because they wish to govern and decide the next term, that is, to rule it. However, I hope, again, that we do not go back to that time when there were trades with forests and for which the checks are now running, and I hope that the prosecution will soon come to a decision and accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. The line, Mr. Apostle, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u173	Dear Mr. Sabanov, my reply is about your speech, in the sense that the Ministry would continue to work on the issues of land relations with all related in the industry and in the sector. Colleagues, as proposed by the deadline to be bound to the new common agricultural policy, there is nothing clear in time what this date is, when the new CAP enters, no one knows, in this situation, I am absolutely certain that the Ministry will not work in this period because there is no date. This date is rather visible on the horizon outside the mandate of this Parliament and outside the mandate of this ministry. For these reasons, I am sure that the Ministry will not work in this period. We are also procrastinating, but to have a fixed date, as your Council of Ministers has proposed, because within one year with a fixed date, next December next year I am sure that the Ministry will continue gatherings with interested parties and will continue this debate and we will have a result because we have a clear fixed date. With regard to forest replacements, I can ask you why a hundred forest replacements have come out, provided that they have been made according to the same methodology, according to the same law, according to the same rules, according to the same estimates and not the other ones that are above the hundred? You answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Sabanov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Abase, I support your thesis that perhaps the Ministry does not have the full capacity to work on this bill. I will therefore propose that every six months a report be given by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to the Committee on Agriculture at what stage the negotiations with those concerned under the Land Conservation Act have reached.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u176	Any other speeches? Mr. Georgiev was first.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, as Mr Abase said, complex and specific topic, and extremely important. What agrarian reform will we do when land relations, land is concentrated in a small circle of people, have entire villages, municipalities, that and whole areas, one next to the other, what agricultural policy? You know we have a new common agricultural policy ahead of us. I do not agree that it is not relevant, on the contrary, it is relevant, because we must also develop a national strategic plan. If we record there on the basis of slot analysis that we need to revive our vegetable production when in certain areas the land is concentrated in one or two large farmers, the agricultural policy of the Ministry of Agriculture is compromised. However, I would like to emphasise here another issue which, however, is not reflected in the Law, which has been proposed for public discussion and which, of course, we will postpone. The draft and accompanying materials have found no place for important regulations by the European Parliament resolution adopted on 27 April 2017. It refers to the current state of concentration on agricultural land and how it is easier for farmers to access the land. By the way, it has been accepted for several countries - Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania. First of all, European agriculture is based on family land use. We're going the other way. Secondly, the foundation of land relations and the size of the property in our country has taken threatening dimensions. The European Parliament recommends that it limit itself and create an opportunity for more people to have access to the ground. The situation is similar to the size of the land used. There are tenants processing tens and hundreds of thousands of acres of land, whole settlements, others have spread to land in several municipalities, third in several districts. This is one of the reasons for depopulation of many settlements in the regions. The European Parliament resolution pays great attention to small farms and to attracting young men and women into agriculture. Dear colleagues, deception and illusion is written in the Draft Law that with the provision without auction of agricultural land from the State Land Fund to individuals within 40 years a great effect will be achieved for the rejuvenation of workers in the industry. Such lands are few and often in the wrong places. The views and regulations must be directed towards the lands of large users. The Law and its accompanying materials do not affect the real estate funds that purchased millions of decares, united in the Association of Agricultural Land Owners. They're the engines of the earth's commiseration. They bought small pieces of land at a price, now they want to grow them so they can sell them overpriced. Next, the agricultural land is the subject of intense trade, sale of a purchase, but in the Law this activity is not treated. It is left to the market element. Everyone who wants, buys tenants, real estate funds, agricultural cooperatives and foreigners, some with planted persons. We do not want to learn from the experience of many European countries, some of which have created state-public structures for this purpose. I'll give you an example here. As early as 1967, the German Constitutional Court ruled that trade in agricultural land should not be as free as trade in any other capital. The European Parliament is now also pointing out that it should be regulated. In the forthcoming law, this is missing. There is a need for a section "Foreign land trade" and provisions on how to regulate it. The law and accompanying materials do not answer the question how will we use the land more effectively? We are now receiving 80 euros of gross production from decare and we are last in Europe. The first member states, today receive an average of more than 270 euros, the headphones from 300 to 1760 euros, this is the Netherlands, the newly accepted countries with an average of more than 140 euros. Dear colleagues, if we accept the Law in the proposed form, naturally, that we postpone it, now a third option, it will concrete the status quo and ensure the development of agriculture in the same direction. This means large ownership, large users, monocultural farming, grain and seed, imports of animal food, vegetables and fruits. The country will continue to be a crude addition to the European Union and neighbouring countries, a favourable market for imports of food products, exports of agricultural labour. Therefore, a broad public debate is needed, compliance with the resolution of the European Parliament of 27 April 2017, which concerns the concentration of agricultural land and facilitates the access of farmers to land and, most importantly, the National Assembly to take a state-owned decision on the most important issue of mother land! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u178	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I can't see any lines. Mrs. Belova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u179	Madam President, honourable Members, I will try to be very brief. I just want to reassure my colleagues that the Law on Land will be tabled by the government of GERB, by the Minister of GERB, so that, Mr. Abase, you have absolutely no concerns, we will be importers and we hope that you will all support this law. From the speeches to date I have hardly heard from you colleagues, why should there be such a delay? I didn't hear anyone mention the interest of agricultural land owners and farmers. Yes, we are not talking about delaying, we are talking about continuing the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, because, in fulfilling our decision of one year, there is a draft bill. But, unlike you, colleagues, we are not looking for maximum consensus, we are looking to protect the interests of agricultural land owners, farmers, and that is why we have proposed this deadline, because some of you have said that the new agricultural policy has nothing to do with our law. How, fellow Members, should there not be, and at the moment, the draft European regulation explicitly indicates that each Member State should comply with its legislation and pay particular attention to specific environmental and climate objectives? Well, how can it not have anything to do with our law? The Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land is part of this bill. So even with the delay, even with the political speech we from GERB want to adopt this decision, to get together, to make the necessary working groups, to continue the debate on this law and when we have a maximum consensus when we have some legislative framework at European Union level, then to adopt a law that will benefit the Bulgarian citizens. Very often, from this platform, we are accused of changing every three months laws relating to agriculture. Here, we now propose to delay the adoption of a law, but this law, as it has been passed, can really benefit from interested parties without imposing subsequent and very frequent changes to the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u180	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u181	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Belova, we are adjourned because we do not have a bill which has not been adopted at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers. If you will continue to work on this bill, you will not have the common agricultural policy and the next programming period. That is to say, the bill is postponed because it simply does not become a.. neither the owners of the agricultural land protects or the users. Two million or three million owners, one hundred thousand users, neither like this bill nor the other. If you continue to perfect this nonsense that is presented, you will get nowhere and fight who will run the next term of office of the Ministry of Agriculture. In your motives it says that this bill is contrary to the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts. What does that mean? That a mess has been made of the task force which cannot be and does not meet the requirements which the state itself has adopted. And good thing it's stopped, because the discontent... That's why I said there was discontent, except for this text. And this discontent is in any of the structures or relationships that are generated by this bill. The common agricultural policy will not tell you the lease contract to be 10, 20 or 15 years, how to conclude it, but it will say that the lease contract is something like a document to be respected by both sides. Our rent law doesn't have that kind of attitude. The weak country is the landowners. It's rewritten, it's over-trained, and whatever you can't do, whatever you can think of. Finally out of 30 owners one signed, he took the rent, the others didn't hear and didn't understand what it was about. [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u182	The weather, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u183	I apologize. My line is: a reasonable period of time to work. I'm asking you to set up frames where they need to work. They don't understand what the Ministry expects of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u184	Here you go, Mrs. Belova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u185	Yes, Mrs. Bachvarova, this proposal gives the Ministry a reasonable period of time to reach consensus with the stakeholders, to comply with the new programming period and to present us with a bill to be supported by the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u187	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u188	Which line? That was a doppelganger. Any other speeches, colleagues? Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, I'm voting: Project! DECISION amending Decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations (GW, No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018) and decision of the National Assembly of 27 February 2019. (DV, No. 19 from 2019) The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In the decision of the National Assembly of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the asking of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations (GW, No. 77, 2017), as amended by decision of the National Assembly of 12 October 2018. (DV, No. 85 from 2018), and Decision of the National Assembly of 27 February 2019. (DV, No. 19, 2019), item II is amended as follows: 'II. Based on the analysis and the Strategy under item I and on the need to comply with the legislative framework with the requirements of the new common agricultural policy, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, after the necessary public discussion, to submit to the Council of Ministers a draft legislation governing public relations in the use of land in Bulgaria. Please, voting mode. Vote 157 MPs: 106 against 16, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Before we begin, I'm asking for a clearance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please put to the vote the admission in Mrs. Miglena Pavlova's Chamber of Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, Mrs. Galya Manassieva
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u190	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Please vote for admission. They voted 111 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u191	In addition to the provisions of the Act on Public Procurement, the Council of Ministers submitted No 902-01-59 on 6 November 2019 adopted on the first vote of 21 November 2019. The Law on Public Procurement was amended and supplemented by the Law on Public Procurement. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, t. 2 the number..430 000... 418 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5, in c. 1 and 2 the words..... are deleted............................................................................................ Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 letter "b' is replaced by "280 000" by "271 000'. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in point (b) in the letter "in', the number "the number' is replaced by "the number', "the number', "the number', "the number', "the number', "the number', "the number', 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 letter (b) is replaced by 837 000 (b) and 860 000 (b) is replaced by 837 000 (c). 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 everywhere the number.. 860 000... 837 According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words to the prospective contractor of the contract shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The estimated value must be up-to-date at the date of the opening of the contract. The contracting authority may calculate the estimated value as a result of market surveys or consultations. 3. In para. 6 after the word........................................................ and everywhere after the word....................................................... is added............. is added............................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u192	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the name of the importer supported by the Commission; the new § 1; the text of the importer for § 1 and 2 which are respectively § 2 and 3, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 3, which becomes § 4, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5 with the corresponding change; the creation of a new § 6; the version of § 5, which becomes § 7 of the Commission Report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u193	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. establishing a rating system or amending its duration; (b) To be created t. 12: ..12. opening the award of a contract by using a rating system or a dynamic purchasing system. 2. In para. 2 the word "invited" is replaced by "invitation" and a sentence is created second: "In the decision under para. 1, t. 9 The contracting authority shall approve the notice announcing the establishment of a rating system. 3. In para. The second sentence is created: "With the decision under para. 1, t. 12 The contracting entity shall approve the documentation and the invitation to tender or to participate in negotiations. 4. In para. 4 the words "six and nine' are replaced by two, nine and twelve. 5. In para. 5 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. the name and surname, position and signature of the person who issued the certificate. 6. In para. 8 words. 4 "11' are replaced by "the'. 4 - 12 -................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10, in c. 2 after the words................................................................................................ The following shall be added to the list: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36a The following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The suppliers shall provide through the profile of the buyer, which shall be maintained on the platform under art. 39a, para. 1, publicity of: 1. the information under art. 36; 2. the information relating to market consultations carried out; 3. other relevant information regarding the award of public contracts at the discretion of the contracting entity. (2) The documents for each contract shall be specified on the buyer profile in a separate electronic file. 2. Allinei 3, 4 and 5 are canceled. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... A new article shall be created. 37: "Protection of information in the publication of documents Art. 37. Upon publication of the procurement documents, the information protected by law shall be deleted, indicating the basis for that. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19, in which it shall be replaced by the exporter. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 107 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the word.................................................................... is replaced by............................................................................................................... 2. A t is created. 6: It's six. a person who has violated a prohibition under art. 101, para. 9 or 10............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u194	Statements? I can't see. I shall put it to the vote: the version of § 6 which shall become § 8 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 7 which shall become § 9, supported by the Commission; the wording of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 10 with the relevant supplement supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 9 and 10 which shall become § 11 and 12 respectively; the version of § 11 and 12 respectively; the version of the Commission report; the version of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 14 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 13, 14, 15 and 16 which shall become § 15, 16, 17 and 18 respectively, respectively, the text of the importer for § 17, which shall be replaced by the corresponding replacement; the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 20 and § 19, which shall become § 21; the text of the importer for § 20 and 21, respectively, which shall become § 22 and 23, respectively, supported by the Commission; and the wording of § 22, which shall become Paragraph 24 of the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u195	On the basis of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts, the Commission proposes that § 23 be formed in two separate paragraphs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter 13th, the name of Section I is hereby amended as follows: The Commission proposes to create a new § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 the title is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u196	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the division of the two paragraphs; the version of § 23, which becomes § 25 of the Commission Report; the creation of a new § 26 They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u197	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 9. (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end of the contract to the contracting authority that concluded the framework agreement and shall be up-to-date; (b) To be created t. 4. "4." by para. 1, t. 2 When a contract is concluded on the basis of a framework agreement without internal competitive choice. 2. The creation of para. 10: In the cases referred to in para. 9, p. 1 prior to the conclusion of the contract, the designated contractor shall declare in writing that the documents provided are up-to-date. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer becoming § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33, in c. 3 concerning para. 9 words.............................................................................. 35, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): Thirty-five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 35, in which the words...... are The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 33 which becomes § 36 and in it the words in Chapter 19 shall be created art. 154 a.m. is replaced by a.k.a. is created by art. 154 a.m. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 156 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. the second sentence is deleted; 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The notices referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be sent The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 39. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 37 and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179, para. The amendment notice shall be replaced by the amendment notice once, with the amendment announcement. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 191, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "send a call" shall be replaced by an invitation published in the Republic of Bulgaria and sent to the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 193 words by publishing information in the ROC, in which also indicates the reasons for the call and the comma before them are deleted and a sentence is created second: The termination shall be made public in the ROC by means of a notice under art. 36, para. 1, t. 7 which contains motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u198	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 24 which becomes § 27 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 which is respectively 28, 29 and 30, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for paragraphs 28, which becomes § 31 and 29, which becomes § 32, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for Paragraph 30, which becomes § 33 with the corresponding amendments supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 34 supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 35 with the corresponding deletion supported by the Commission; § 33 with the corresponding amendments supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 37 supported by the Commission; the version of § 35, which becomes § 38 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 39; the rejection of § 38; the version of the Commission's report; the version of the Commission's report becomes § 39; They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u199	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 47, and shall finally be added under Article 45. 39a, para. 1.................................................................................. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 48 and 49: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 216 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: After accepting the complaint as a regular, the court shall send a copy of the complaint together with the annexes of the other parties which, within three days of receipt, may submit a reply. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 7" became respectively. 4... 8............................................................... § 49. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 216a, para. 2 words.............................................................................. 216, para. The following points are inserted after point The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 50. Proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. monitor public procurement by generalising and analysing information: (a) from the platform referred to in art. 39a, para. 1; (b) of the activities under point (b) OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (c) contracting entities and competent authorities, including the authorities referred to in Chapter twenty-seven and under art. 238, para. 1; (d) received at the Public Procurement Agency from other sources; (b) point 22 is amended as follows: "22." designate the representatives of the Public Procurement Agency for participation in the activities of the Cooperation Expert Council; (c) c. 24 the words "Monitoring report on the state of the public procurement market' shall be replaced by "the monitoring of public procurement'. 2. In para. 4 Finally added to the report under para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 22, para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 9, notices to be sent to ROC, including under art. 29, para. 2, and the information referred to in Article 2. 36, para. 1, t. Art. 5 and 6 and art. 230, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 22, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 9 and 12, notices to be sent to ROC, including under art. 29, para. Art. 3 and Art. 156, para. 1, t. 3, and the information referred to in Article 3. 36, para. 1, t. Article 7 230, para. Three and four. 4. In para. 9 after the words "al." 1, t. A comma shall be placed and added for carrying out the monitoring under para. 1, t. 14........................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 52. Proposal of the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 232 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words in the order of art. 148 "September 175" shall be replaced by the following in the order of art. 84, 86, 141, 142 and 148 2. In para. 7 words at the same time as publication shall be replaced by the following working day after publication. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u200	I shall put to the vote, colleagues, the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 44, supported by the Commission; paragraphs 43 and 44 respectively, which shall become paragraphs 45 and 46, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 47, which shall become § 47, which shall become § 51 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 52, respectively, supported by the Commission; the wording of § 49, which shall become § 53 of the Commission Report; the text of the importer for paragraphs 50 and 51, which shall become paragraphs 54 and 55, respectively, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Tzipov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure to complete this item on the agenda after 2:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u202	Thank you. Please, a voting regime to extend the time until the vote on this item is completed. Vote 78 MPs: 58, Against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u203	I request a re-voting procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u204	Please re-vote. Vote 88 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u205	The Commission proposes to create a new § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement (prom., SG No. The following amendments and additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In§ 131: (a) in para. 2 the words "date" as defined in the schedule under para. the following points are inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (b) the creation of para. 3 and 4: For public procurement whose award began after 31 December 2019 but until the date set out in the schedule under para. 1 The order of award in force until 1 November 2019 shall apply, such as the provisions of art. 6, para. Art. 1, art. 14, para. 1, t. Art. 5 and 7, Art. 20, para. Art. 1, art. 21, para. Art. 2, Art. 54, para. 1, t. Article 5 (a) (ii) 100, para. Art. 3 and Art. Art. 12, Art. 107, t. Art. 5 and 6, Art. 112, para. Art. 9 and 10, Art. Art. 112a and Art. 112a 149, para. 1, t. 13 shall apply in the version of 1 January 2020. This row shall also apply to the conclusion and implementation of framework agreements and contracts, including the transmission of required information. (4) Alinei 2 and 3 shall also apply to the design contests opened by the date specified in the schedule under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. Paragraph 134 is amended as follows: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Contracting entities shall maintain their buyer profiles outside the platform under art. 39a, para. 1 and publish in them the necessary information for the orders opened by the date set out in the schedule under § 131, para. 1. The profile shall be maintained until one year from: 1. completion of the execution of the contract; 2. termination of the award of contracts; 3. closure of the implementation of the last contract concluded on the basis of a framework agreement or rating system. 3. Paragraph 137 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Until 1 January 2021, the Central Authority for purchases in the sector....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 22, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and the notices referred to in Article 2. Art. 35 and art. 36, para. 1, t. 3 and 6, which is carried out through the platform under art. 39a, para. 1 according to the schedule under § 131, para. 1. (2) In the cases under para. 1 Contracting entities which conduct an internal competitive choice on the basis of framework agreements concluded by the Central Authority for purchases in the sector.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (3) Contract award notices, amendment and conclusion of contracts concluded after an internal competitive choice under para. 2 shall be entered in the central purchasing body's account in the sector....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 39a, para. 1. (4) The Central Authority for purchases in the sector.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 39a, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 4. In § 141, t. 4 after the words. 36a, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the comma which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u206	Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u207	The Commission proposes to create a new § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Annex No 13, the words "Art. 141, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 35, para. 2, p. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. Under § 52, there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 52 and proposes to reject it. Under § 53, there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) (2) The Treaties on the basis of the qualification systems under para. 1 shall be awarded in accordance with the order in which the system was established. In this order, the information required relating to the award and execution of the contracts shall also be sent. Under § 54 there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, contracting entities shall terminate contracts which are not in conformity with the provisions of art. 14, para. 1, t. 5, 6 and 7 and art. 149, para. 1, t. 13. According to § 55 there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 56. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 55 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 56. There is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, but proposes to reject it as it is reflected in its systematic position in a new § 56. According to § 56 there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 56. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 56 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 56. There is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 60: ........................................................ Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Council of Ministers shall align the regulations of the Council of Ministers. There is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In the Law on Electronic Governance (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7pm after the word "supplier" is added and after the word "supplier" is added the "supplier" and finally added the "supplier" activities that ensure the implementation of these services. 2. In § 45 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance (SG, No. 94 from 2019): (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "Search service" is a public entity only when awarding the activities under art. 7c. (b) the creation of para. 3: The provisions of the Public Procurement Act do not apply from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to the award of supplies, services and works necessary for the execution of contracts concluded before 29 November 2019, as well as to contracts concluded after that date, where the award procedures have been opened before 29 November 2019. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Bets (prom., SG No. The following amendments shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In § 50 all over the words 2. In § 52, para. 5 the words '2020' shall be replaced by '2022'. 3. In § 54, the words According to § 57, there is a proposal from the MPs Anna Alexandrova and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 57, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2020, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 61, which shall enter into force on 29 November 2019; 2. paragraph 62, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-18.u208	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the new § 56; the new § 57; the name of the division of the Law supported by the Commission; the rejection of § 52; the version of § 53, which shall become § 58 of the Commission Report; the version of § 54, which shall become § 59 of the Commission Report; The Commission's report; the rejection of § 55; the rejection of § 56; the creation of a new § 60; the creation of a new § 61; the creation of a new § 62 and the editing of § 57; which becomes § 63 of the Commission Report. They voted 99 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, as you know, according to the voted Work Programme of the National Assembly on tomorrow there will be parliamentary control: First will answer the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to 11 questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova to five questions; Anton Kutev; Krum Zarkov; Andon Donchev; Milen Mihov; Georgi Mihailov; and Smilyana Niva-Krusteva. Second will answer the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to eight questions from the MPs Anton Kutev; Christian Vigenin; Mikhail Hristov; Krasimir Yankov to two questions; Krum Zarkov; Boriana Georgieva; and Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev. Third, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva answered a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. The fourth will answer the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Irena Dimova; and Alexander Matsurev. That's why today's plenary day is over. Tomorrow, December 19th, the regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
