ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Procedure, Mr. Nunev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I propose point seven of the adopted program for the working week "A bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents," No 954-01-10, submitted by the National Representative Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019, to drop out, as the Council of Ministers at its meeting yesterday approved the Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act submitted by the Ministry of Interior. The bills will be discussed and voted in plenary according to the order of art. 81 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Are you suggesting that the item be withdrawn from the agenda? [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Nunev.]] Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 132 MPs: 114, against 4, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I see there's some concern about the vote. Mr. Donchev will explain. We have coordination in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. [[Relation from the National Representative Andon Donchev.]] It's all right, isn't it, Mr. Donchev? Okay. Colleagues, I'm gonna read you two messages: On 3 April 2019 he received and sent to the National Representative a general bill of laws amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act adopted at the first vote on 3 April 2019. The project was drawn up by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order, Security and Defence Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through (and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna in the period from 4 to 6 April 2019 including a ship of the composition of the Canadian Navy. The notification was received on 3 April 2019 with the following information: No 903-09-16 and granted to the Defence Committee. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW OF RECOGNITION, ENFORCEMENT AND RECOGNITION OF JUDGE DECISIONS TO PROVIDE DISCLOSURE FROM FREENESS OR MEASURES INCLUDING DISCLOSURE OF FREEDNESS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Ms. Anna Alexandrova. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Before the report, I would like to ask for a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Nikolay Prodanov and Mr. Dimitar Terziivanov an expert in International Legal Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u5	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for admission to this House. They voted 122 MPs: 120, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Please, let's continue with the Legal Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of enforcement acts Punishment of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. At its meeting held on 3 April 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Nikolay Prodanov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Prodanov, who pointed out that it aims to introduce the requirements of Framework Decision 2008/909/Justice and Internal Order of the Council of 27 November 2008 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters requiring imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment for the purposes of their implementation in the European Union. The bill shall designate as a competent authority for the recognition and enforcement of foreign judicial acts the district court of residence or usual residence of the person to whom the penalty or measure has been imposed. If the residence of the person in the country is unknown or does not live in the country competent to recognise the act is the Sofia City Court. Mr. Prodanov noted that a condition for sending a judicial order for execution in the Republic of Bulgaria is the act to which he refers to, to constitute a crime under Bulgarian law. Double penalties shall not be required where the sentence or measure is given on the occasion of terrorism, participation in an organised criminal group, corruption, human trafficking, fraud, including one that affects the financial interests of the European Union, counterfeiting of monetary signs and other specifically referred crimes. The procedure for the recognition of foreign judgments shall include the possibility of consultation with the competent authority of the issuing Member State prior to the submission of the judgment. In accordance with the requirements of the Framework Decision, the Court of Justice shall be given the opportunity to adapt the punishment imposed by the issuing Member State by adapting it to the closest punishment provided for such acts under Bulgarian law. Punishment of imprisonment and of a measure involving imprisonment cannot be replaced by a fine or other form of monetary penalty. The bill regulates the possibility of appeal against the decision on recognition, the time limits of proceedings and the consequences of the recognition of the judgment of another Member State. A provision has been provided for the termination of execution in the event of withdrawal of the certificate or other case as a result of which the penalty ceases to be enforceable, including the granting of amnesty or pardon. The bill is proposed to enter into force from 1 January 2020, as it would have an impact on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, with its adoption creating conditions for a faster procedure for carrying out the transfer of convicted persons, which is expected to increase them by up to 200 persons per year. The draft was adopted by the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov, Simeon Naydenov and Christian Mitev. Members of the National Assembly expressed their support for the bill, noting that there is a need to refine certain provisions between first and second votes. Mr. Naydenov pointed out that it should be extended the catalogue of criminal acts in art. 8, para. 2 with other criminal groups. Mr. Lazarov noted that inaccurate and literal translations are received when introducing the requirements of directives and framework solutions. In response to the questions asked, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice pointed out that the Bulgarian legislation introduces a certain Framework Decision and the Republic of Bulgaria is bound by it, and it is a standard provision among the different legal systems to use common concepts in order to reach a compromise. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill of recognition, enforcement and enforcement of judicial acts for the execution of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. At its regular meeting held on 27 March 2019, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Bill on Recognition, Implementation and Sending of Judgments for Punishment of Prisons or Measures Including Prisons, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. The bill was presented by Evgeni Stoyanov "Deputy Minister of Justice." The meeting was attended by Aleksandar Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and Dimitar Terziivanov, Chief Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs at the same Ministry. The bill aims to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Council Framework Decision 2008/909/JHA of 27 November 2008 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment for the purposes of their implementation in the European Union (OB, L 327/27 of 5 December 2008).), as amended by Council Framework Decision 2009/299/JHA of 26 February 2009. In accordance with the requirements of the Framework Decision, the Court of Justice shall be given the opportunity to adapt the punishment imposed by the issuing Member State by adapting it to the closest punishment provided for such acts under Bulgarian law. Punishment of imprisonment or measure involving imprisonment may not be replaced by a fine or other form of monetary penalty. The bill contains detailed arrangements for the rules for sending Bulgarian judicial acts for the imposition of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill of recognition, enforcement and sending of judicial acts for the imposition of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902 01 12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. I open the debate on the Draft Law on recognition, enforcement and transmission of judicial acts for the imposition of imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? Let's assume there are no requests. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are voting on a bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. At first reading, we adopted a bill of recognition, enforcement and enforcement of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment, No 902-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. Moving on to the next point of our daily program: Therefore, the Commission considers that there is a need for the Commission to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether it is compatible with Who will introduce us to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report? Dr. Ademov, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Social Security Code, No 954-01-17, submitted by Svetlana Angelova, Menda Stoyanova, Rumen Genov, Claudia Gancheva, Julian Papasimov, Dimitar Gechev, Nikolay Sirakov, Galya Zhelyazkova, Ralitsa Dobreva and Lilyana Pavlova on 27 March 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 3 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 954-01-17, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute. The bill was presented by the MP Svetlana Angelova. At the beginning of the presentation, she recalled that since 1 January 2019 changes in the Code of Social Security related to the method of determining the individual coefficient in the formula for calculating the amount of pensions for employment are in force. The insurance income from which employment pensions are calculated does not include the insurance income for a period of three consecutive years, selected by the person from the last 15 years of insurance service until 1 January 1997, as well as the insurance income for the period 1997-1999, which was possible by the end of 2018. This is essentially a new methodology for calculating the individual coefficient when determining the amount of employment pensions that is fundamentally different from that applied to this point of time. The importers of the Bill take into account the fact that still with many people who are retiring at the moment, the prevailing insurance service and the corresponding insurance income were acquired before 2000. Some of them during this period received high wages on which they were actually provided, and subsequently, at the end of their career, for various reasons, including being able to accumulate the necessary insurance service for retirement, have undergone lower paid work. Thus, the application of the new provisions for the calculation of pensions starting from 31 December 2018 is less favourable to those persons who, irrespective of their actual contribution, cannot draw on the relevant social security rights. The main objective set by the importers of the bill is by § 22w of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code to enable persons to choose the amount of their pension to be determined by an individual coefficient calculated according to the old order, i.e. by including the income for the three most favourable years before 1997 and the entire period from 1 January 1997 until their retirement. In order to prevent inequalities in respect of persons who have already submitted applications for an employment pension starting after 31 December 2018 or who have had one before the entry into force of the proposed change, Paragraph 2 in § 22w is proposed. On the basis of that paragraph 2, they may, within six months of the entry into force of this Law, exercise their single right of choice, in which case the pension shall be granted at the new amount of the same starting date. It is proposed that the possibility for individuals to choose the amount of their pension to be determined by an individual coefficient calculated according to the old rate to be applied by 2023 when the share of people expected to be significantly reduced by the calculation of the individual rate of the old order is more favourable. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria. Minister Biser Petkov defended the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, stressing that he supported the proposed by the Law the possibility for individuals to choose the amount of their pension to be determined by an individual coefficient calculated according to the "Old."................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The manager of NOI Ivaylo Ivanov also stated his support for the Bill and stressed that an organization was established in the NSI to facilitate and assist the rapid functioning of the new legal norm. A preliminary assessment of the impact of the bill has been applied to the Bill. It states that the effect on pension expenditure on the State social security budget for 2019 will be 13 million. 673 thousand. £600. (trust of 0,1%) additional cost. The adoption of the Bill will ensure maximum protection of the rights of persons, therefore the benefits of its adoption are greater than the necessary additional costs. In the discussion held the President of the Commission Hasan Ademov asked the importers questions which essentially relate to the ability of the people to make this choice, which offered them the Bill.................................................................................. Mr. Ademov expressed concern that the information about the new bill will not reach the stakeholders who are about to retire, especially those who live in smaller municipalities and settlements. In addition, it is an interesting case for individuals who have chosen to receive a pension under art. 68a of the Social Security Code. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 15 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill for supplementing the Social Security Code, No 954-01-17, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 27 March 2019. Just one remark, Mr. Chairman, a mistake has been made. The sitting was not held on 3 March but on 3 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u11	Thank you. Technical error, we correct it with the knowledge and agreement of the plenary. There are no reports from other committees. Opportunity to present the bill by the importer Mrs. Angelova. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order to create maximum protection of the social security rights of persons and to take account of their importance of the right of choice with this bill, it is proposed that a change in the transitional provisions of the Social Security Code be proposed by allowing persons to apply for an early retirement pension from 31 December 2018 to choose the amount of their pension to be determined by an individual coefficient calculated according to the old methodology, i.e. by including the income for the three most favourable years before 1997 and the entire income from 1 January 1997 until their retirement or in the new order in force from 1 January 2019. I would just like to remind you that since 1 January 2019 changes in the Code of Social Security relating to the method of determining the individual coefficient in the formula for calculating the amount of the pension for employment are in force. On the basis of the current provision of art. 70, para. 8 of the Social Security Code for pensions granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from the insurance income of the person for periods after 31 December 1999 until the date of granting the pensions but for a period of not less than 36 months. Where the insurance income of the person after 31 December 1999 is less than 36 months, its last insurance income before 1 January 2000 shall also be taken into account in order laid down by the Pension and Insurance Internship Ordinance. The insurance income from which employment pensions are calculated does not include the insurance income for the period of three consecutive years from the last 15 years of insurance service until 1 January 1997 and the insurance income for the period from 1 January 1997 to 31 December 1999, which was possible until the end of 2018. This change was made for the purpose of closer binding the amount of pension to the social contribution of the person during his work life. The majority of the persons who are currently retiring are acquired internship and insurance income before 2000. Some of them received high wages that they were actually provided for during that period and, at the end of their career, for various reasons, performed a lower paid activity. Therefore, the new provisions for calculating the individual coefficient in the retirement formula starting from 31 December 2018 are less favourable for those persons. In this respect, it is necessary to create a legal opportunity for them to be able to track down by which of the two methodologies their individual coefficient is to be determined when calculating the amount of the pension. In order to prevent inequalities in respect of persons who have already submitted an application for an employment pension with a starting date after 31 December 2018, or who have one, before the entry into force of the proposed change, been offered within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, to be able to exercise their right of choice on a one-off basis. In these cases, pensions shall be allocated at the new amount from the same starting date. It is proposed that the possibility for individuals to choose the amount of their pension to be determined by the individual coefficient calculated according to the old methodology should apply until 1 January 2023 when the proportion of people for whom the calculation of the individual old order coefficient is more favourable is expected to decrease significantly. The adoption of additions to the Social Security Code will have a positive effect on all interested groups. Persons will have the right to choose which will guarantee maximum protection of their social security rights. The impact on pension expenditure on the state social security budget for 2019 will be 13.6 million. lv. additional cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. This was a presentation of the bill on behalf of an importer. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Papasimov. You are one of the importers. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From 1 January 2019, changes to the Social Security Code relating to how to determine the individual coefficient in the formula for calculating the amount of pensions for employment are in force. On the basis of the current provision of art. 80, para. 8 of the Social Security Code for pensions granted with a starting date after 31 December 2018, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from the insurance income of the person for periods after 31 December 1999 until the date of granting the pension but for a period of no less than 36 months. On the basis of art. 70, para. 9 of the Social Security Code the individual coefficient in the above case shall be calculated as the sum of the monthly ratios between the insurance income of the person for the month and the national average income for the same month shall be divided by the sum of the ratios between the number of working days to which the insurance income of the person relates for the month concerned and the number of working days of the month concerned. The hours worked by the person shall be calculated in proportion to the statutory working hours. It is shown here that the insurance income from which the new employment pensions are calculated does not include the insurance income for a period of three consecutive years chosen by the person from the last 15 years of insurance service until 1 January 1997, as calculated by the individual coefficient until 31 December 2018. This change eases both the persons applying for retirement and the administration of the National Insurance Institute. The first will not have to collect documents for insurance income, and the second will use the available information on the insurance income of the persons in the register of insured persons. The calculation of pensions thus significantly reduces the possibility of abuse. Here I would like to mention that only in the period 2016 - 2018 the pension insurance authorities have submitted................................................................................................................................................................... Despite the fact that the Law was adopted at the end of 2017 and a grace period was given by the beginning of 2019, it turned out that many people were wronged by the new legislation and their pensions, calculated in the new way, were smaller than they would have been if they were calculated by the old one. The reason for this is that they had higher incomes before 2000 and for various reasons these incomes after 2000 were smaller. The bill we are currently looking at enables every citizen to determine how to calculate his pension in the new or the old way. That way there will be maximum protection of their insurance rights and no harm done. In order to prevent inequalities in respect of persons who have already submitted retirement papers or already received a pension after 31 December 2018, by the time the proposed bill enters into force, shall be offered on the basis of para. 2 of § 22 of this provision within 6 months of the entry into force of this Law, they may exercise their single right of choice, in which case the pension will be granted in the new amount from the same starting date of retirement. The right of choice will apply until 2023, and we believe that then the number of people for whom the calculation of the individual coefficient in the old order is more favourable will significantly decrease. This bill in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy was adopted with full consensus. Colleagues, I call on you from this platform also to support the Bill so that there are no injustices and differences in the retirement of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u15	Thanks for the speech. Are there any lines? No requests. Here you are, Mr. Popovski, for a statement under the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The group of the United Patriarchs.I hope it will monolithicly support the amendment.Svetlana Angelova in the Social Security Code, because indeed last year we admitted a coliseum with a vote in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Big Budget and some of the Bulgarian citizens were really wronged by the new formula. Now, having the right to choose, no Bulgarian citizen should be harmed. However, I hope that this amendment will come the time to replace it when the Second Pillar comes in the near future and people will indeed receive some real pensions according to their insurance contributions in the last 20 years, as is happening in normal countries. I just remind you that at present, about 30% of the state social security budget is being taken over by the state budget. There are countries that are one to one.. as much money is imported there, as much is distributed. We're bringing in 8 billion and something, giving away over 11 billion, so the big budget continues to re-finance the state social security budget in a small percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u17	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Angelova to speak, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the floor not to present the bill, I did this a moment ago. I also support what my colleague Papasimov said in his speech. This bill is undoubtedly adopted by all Members of the National Assembly and is in support of all interested parties with the aim of maximum protection of social security rights. Rather, I would like to present a proposal which arose in the course of a debate on the Draft Law and was presented yesterday to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, which was also discussed with the National Insurance Institute manager, with the NSI experts as to how the calculation of the individual coefficient of the old and new methodology will be done. If a person is not informed, if he is insecure, when submitting the retirement application, he must submit documents which will certify the three most favourable consecutive years before 1997, chosen by him as automatic with the calculation of the individual coefficient of the old methodology after the submission of these documents for three most favourable years chosen by the person, the NSI on the basis of changes in the programme product will automatically calculate the amount of the individual coefficient of the new methodology. Thus, the professional NSI will be able to present and choose whether the more favourable amount of the pension is based on the old methodology or on the new methodology of calculating the individual coefficient. If those persons who are due to retire are pre-convinced and do not wish to be calculated the amount of pension based on the old methodology, they do not need to submit documents for three most favourable years from the last 15 years before 1997, they will receive a pension amount calculated on the basis of the new methodology that operates from 1 January 2019. The aim is not to create tensions, not to create uncertainty in those persons who are due to retire after 31 December 2018. As you know, there is an electronic register from 1997 in the database of the National Insurance Institute for the insured persons, so that Bulgarian citizens can be reassured that the NSI based on the calculation of the size according to the old and new methodology will choose the professionally more favourable amount. There are people who don't know and can't handle the calculator. I mean, both calculators are currently working on the website of the National Insurance Institute, and any person can calculate in advance the amount of the pension both on the basis of the old methodology and on the basis of the new methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches? Mr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I begin by saying that our parliamentary group will support the proposed project. Before that, I want to say what this is really about, why we came to this situation, because this is very important, because we are currently making changes to the changes that we made at the end of last year. I am genuinely glad that colleagues from GERB adopted the thesis that we proposed when this case came to light "The National Insurance Institute on an administrative basis can determine the size of the pension." Because I am not at all convinced that all Bulgarian citizens - about 90 thousand - who are due to retire this year - can have a personal identification code and, together with the CNN with the calculators at the National Insurance Institute, can determine the future amount of the pension. That's what this is about. The idea was, wasn't we all fighting in the chest and saying that we're reducing the administrative burden here's the real way, and I thank my colleagues at GERB for accepting the idea of reducing the administrative burden. What do we need to know? Firstly, in 2015, we adopted a large-scale reform called the Kalfin Reform. With the adopted texts then we postponed by a four-year period the dropping of the so-called three golden years from the 15 years before 1997, or in other words, the years with the highest social security income. Then why was this done? It was made with the argument that before 1997 there was no maximum insurance income, until 2000 there was no maximum insurance income, before 1997 there was no register of insured persons. This gives the opportunity, without saying that this is a mass practice, to manipulate job biography and insurance internship. The practice and actions of the prosecution, the Ministry of Interior and the National Insurance Institute have shown that such cases, unfortunately, have. Therefore, it was accepted that after 2000 the insurance income should be respected in the calculation of the individual coefficient. There's no new formula, there's no new methodology, the formula is the same. There is only a new way to calculate the individual pension coefficient. What does that mean? If three consecutive years were taken in the calculation of the individual coefficient before the end of last year, from the years 15 years before 1997 plus all the rest after 1997, the individual pension ratio was calculated on average monthly insurance income. After New Year's Eve, things are a little different. There are new parameters. The new parameters are calculated with the individual pension coefficient based on all years after 2000. It's the only one and only them. Something new about the individual pension ratio is calculated on the average daily insurance income. What does that mean? It's different to have worked every month and 10 days on high incomes, it's different to have worked the whole month and to have provided for yourself. Therefore, the new formula, namely the new way to calculate the individual pension coefficient, gives a slightly more direct link between the insurance contribution and the amount of the individual pension coefficient. And now what happened? It was based on a simulation of the National Insurance Institute that if the individual pension ratio is calculated in the new way, then what happens? One large part of the people who worked in state enterprises before 1997 or after 1997 until 2000 worked in banks, in large industrial enterprises, in serious high income companies, because they did not have the maximum insurance income, they provided themselves on the real income they received. But if, after 2000, they had episodes of their work biography when they were insured on minimum social security benefits, their pension rate dropped sharply. And these are the people who join the group of these 37%. I would like to emphasise that the public discussion on this issue has been distorted. What happened? The reduction of pensions to 37% of future pensioners is not such a thing. The first thing that is important to note is that the reduction in the individual pension coefficient does not in any case mean a 100% reduction in the amount of the future pension. Why? Because the formula for calculating the amount of the pension other than an individual coefficient has other components, one of them being extremely demanding... the country's claim for insurance income 12 months before the date of retirement. So in the formula, by putting these new elements, it turns out that over 60% are the ones that will have a higher individual coefficient, i.e. a higher amount of pension. But for those 37%, for which the individual pension ratio is reduced, we still cannot say for sure how many of them will have a reduced pension amount. The National Insurance Institute said 0.1% was the cumulative effect. Therefore, they claim the nine million that are envisaged in the state social security budget. I wanted to tell you this thing because a variety of information appeared and in the media space the discussion somehow became pseudo-expert. That's why I wanted to say these things that are very important. Otherwise, it is very important that what Mrs. Angelova said a moment ago we make it so that we can make it easier for those 90 thousand people to be able to avoid difficulties. I am convinced that the National Insurance Institute will make such an organisation that will allow all who are candidates to be informed in advance. But agree that this will immediately open a service market for people who will provide their services for payment so that they can provide information. I don't want this to happen. I want Bulgarian citizens to be assisted if possible. Because I open a big clamp and say: the calculation of two individual pension ratios with a social security income before 1997, with three years, and then it's a labor-intensive procedure. It's the NSI experts who have to say if that's possible. I guarantee this will extend the retirement period. What does that mean? Within these four months, which are by law, experts from the NSI could hardly cope. That is why we agreed yesterday at the Commission meeting to make it possible to propose the possible option. The possible option is that there are no people who are in any way harmed by what has been obtained as factology. I know there are opponents to what we're doing right now. They have their arguments because we are putting off another four years and it is not clear whether in 2023 we will not postpone this period again. Because the work biography of those who will then retire in practice will include the years after 2000, that is 23 years. This is about a relevant period, because the average age for a person's pension is about 17 years and a few months, so it is believed that this will be an adequate period. I can tell you the practice from European countries. In Germany, for example, the entire insurance service, which is most objective and most real, enters when determining the amount of the pension. In France, it is a completely different way to do 20 most favorable years of work biography are those involved in the formation of the size of the pension. We can hardly afford such an approach, so the European social model is controlled in a way in which each Member State sets the retirement rules and there is nothing wrong with that. But this whole discussion is situated in the field of the search for justice, because there can be no 100% justice in this system, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. My desire has always been to make it so that there is less injustice. That's why I'm saying and finishing that you have to look for opportunities to restore justice. In the field of justice is also the whole discussion, that is, the search for adequacy between the insurance contribution and the amount of the pension you receive. If we achieve this, it will mean that we have taken a step forward in pension production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u21	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? If there are no other speeches, I shall close the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs to vote. We are voting at first reading Draft for Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 954-01-17, tabled by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Menda Stoyanova, Rumen Genov, Claudia Gancheva, Julian Papasimov, Dimitar Gechev, Nikolay Sirakov, Galya Zhelyazkova, Ralitsa Dobreva and Lilyana Pavlova on 27 March 2019. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposal for the adoption of the first vote of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 954-01-17, submitted by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 27 March 2019, was adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u22	Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW Importers supplied representatives Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 22 March 2019 Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe of the Energy Commission on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 954-01-16, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 22 March 2019. At its regular meeting held on 27 March 2019, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 954-01-16, submitted by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 22 March 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Zhecho Stankov from the Ministry of Energy; Deputy Minister from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mr. Ivanov from the Bulgarian Energy Holding Mr. Petyo Ivanov from Executive Director. On the part of the importers, the reasons for the bill were presented by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. He pointed out that after the successful integration of some of the electricity producers receiving preferential prices on the free electricity market in 2018, it is necessary to extend the electricity market liberalisation process. Higher competition will lead to the supply of a large number of and more diverse stock products. With the proposed changes, power generators with installed power between one megawatt hour and four megawatt hours from 1 July 2019 will switch from preferential prices to a market price and premium compensation contract, and there is no provision for a transitional period for the public supplier to buy at a preferential price from these producers and sell it on the electricity market for which to be compensated by the Fund. The changes will affect 12 high-efficiency cogeneration plants with a total installed power of 27,6 megawatt hours and 360 plants with renewable energy sources with a total installed capacity of 723 megawatts. Annually, these 372 power plants produce about 1 million. Five hundred thousand. Megawatt hours of electricity. The units covered by the changes should sign a premium compensation contract with the Fund by 30 June 2019. The premium will represent the expected difference between the preferential price and the estimated market price set by the regulator. For RES producers, the premium will be granted until the end of the relevant long-term purchase contract and the amount of electricity to be compensated by a premium is determined net specific production. Other changes to the legislation provide for the introduction of the competitive start for the provision of a preferential price or premium for newly joined power generators through high-efficiency cogeneration. These contests are in line with European Union legislation regarding the granting of State aid. The order for parallel procedures to be carried out in order to confirm the new and amended prices in force shall be laid down. The provision aims to specify the power of the KEWRC to validate the prices of heat and electricity, the prices for transmission and distribution of electricity, the price or the component price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 of the Energy Act and to determine premiums under art. 33a of the Energy Act, and amend them in case of necessity. The administrative burden in the operation of electricity producers under art. 30, para. 2 of the Renewable Energy Act with the Energy Security Fund and the Sustainable Energy Development Agency. A line is proposed in which small plants will declare information once a year and will contribute corresponding contributions for the previous year to the Power System Security Fund. It also removes the current ambiguity regarding persons who owe access and transport prices to/through the relevant network and ensures that the exported electricity originating in Bulgaria will not be treated differently from that realised on the internal market in accordance with European legislation. The possibility of placing smart measurement systems with free access to data in real time is provided, which would help for better energy management by end customers and electricity traders. The benefit would be to achieve lower balancing costs. This change attempts to integrate the market and customers with such means of commercial measurement. The costs of installing the system will be borne by the final customer and the commercial measuring instrument itself remains owned by the operator concerned. A change in the power of the energy regulator is proposed to determine monthly availability from the new price period. The allocation of the quantities by month will allow for more accurate planning of the required amount of electricity for the needs of the regulated market, and therefore producers will have a clearer idea of the free quantities to be offered on the free market. A new market mechanism is being established to encourage investments in green projects and the construction of new renewable capacities. The mechanism does not provide for a commitment by the State to provide a contract for compulsory buying-in of energy, a preferential price, a contract for difference, a corporate guarantee and/or other non-market mechanisms for guaranteeing investment, or a priority dispatch. The proposed provision provides that final customers are to be exempted from the payment of a public obligation fee for supplied electricity from a RES power plant through direct power lines. On behalf of KEWRC, Mr. Ivan Ivanov supported the proposed bill. In his opinion, he expressed a position on the need for its adoption as a next step in the process of liberalization of the electricity market in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the part of the Ministry of Energy Mr. Zhecho Stankov expressed principle support on the proposed bill, and the Ministry will submit in writing proposals for editorial changes in separate texts between the first and second votes. Mr. Diane Cherven Condev, Chairman of the Fund, said that the Fund was fully prepared by 30 June 2019 to process the relevant documentation and to sign compensation contracts with a premium of the producers provided for the integration of the free electricity market. On the part of the guests, comments were said: Mr. Vasil Velev from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and Mr. Konstantin Stamenov. The position of employers' organisations has always been for greater competition and stability in the electricity market, wishing this to happen as soon as possible. Ms. Meglena Rusinova Chairman of the Bulgarian Photovoltaic Association. The Bulgarian Photovoltaic Association supports the Bill and believes that there are no problems for signing premium contracts and the relevant legal procedures for changing the coordinators of balancing groups by producers to come out of a regulated free market and to take place by 30 June 2019. Ms. Gabriela Todorova Administrative Director of the Bulgarian Wind Energy Association supported the Bill in principle, but expressed the need to introduce a transitional period during which producers have sufficient time to sign a premium compensation contract and the relevant legal procedures for exiting a regulated free market. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 12 votes for the Energy Committee, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt, at first reading, a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 954-01-16, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 22 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Mr. Nikolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I think that we continue with this law the good tradition and the obligation to liberalise the market. Last year, we made such big steps - producers with more than four megawatt hours - obliged them to go to the Bulgarian independent electricity market, gave them a grace period by the end of the year to sign compensation contracts with the Energy Security Fund, giving the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission the opportunity to provide forecast prices for the market to be made. Thus, we have given more entities and more liquidity to this exchange, created an opportunity for the exchange to work and generate competitive prices. At present, all producers who are in this range will be equal or larger than one megawatt hour and up to four megawatt hours respectively, will walk exactly the same path, will go, will sign these compensation contracts, will come out on the Bulgarian market, will be able to compete with the other electricity producers and sell and increase these competitive entities accordingly. We are talking about 12 high-efficiency combined producers and 360 RES power plants respectively, their total power is 750 megawatts or annually that makes about 1 million. Five hundred thousand. megawatt hour. At present, they are participating in the regulated market through the National Electricity Company. Now this regulated market will deprive itself of this energy and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will have the opportunity to bring other actors into it. This enables us to give sufficient liquidity because you know that there were times during the winter months when the price was rising unwarrantedly very upward. Employers rightly asked to have more entities and more energy on this auction so that they really have confidence in it so that the price that is achieved can have a balance between demand and supply and find the equilibrium point. So I think this step is good for liberalising this market. Subsequently, due to the release of entities from the compensation contracts they have with the Electricity System Security Fund, an opportunity to be compensated with new highly efficient combined productions that can be invested and created in Bulgaria. This will create an opportunity for a competition start and apply for preferential prices from this fund. In this way, we will be able to provide an opportunity for really good investments with good efficiency, to be able to apply for compensation and to participate in the market without having certainty from this particular price that the law will allow. We also allow them, by reducing the administrative burden of small plants that are on rooftops, to be built, to reduce their administrative burden and not to be obliged to submit data to the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development every month and to contribute to the Fund, and thus to pay accounts, to pay to another administration, provided that their revenues are quite small and do not have that possibility. We give them the opportunity to make this contribution and submit the necessary documents to the Sustainable Energy Development Agency once a year. As a country, we have an obligation to remove the fees of those entities that export energy to neighbouring countries. So far they have paid a fee to the electricity system operator and thus there was a difference, differentiation between consumers in Bulgaria's internal and external markets. We are now leveling this out because we already have a European market and we are actually removing this fee. This has also been done in this law and we have fulfilled this obligation towards our European partners. We allow the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to make monthly forecasts in relation to the regulated market. So far they have been annual and, in fact, there was no forecast of what energy would be needed by the National Electricity Company in order to be able to fulfil its obligation as an electricity supplier for consumers on a regulated market. Thus, we create a forecast of the market and of the relevant producers involved in the regulated market so that it does not create imbalances in the electricity offered on both the market and the security of the National Electricity Company. This will, of course, be assessed in both directions of positive and negative. Positive from the point of view that everyone will be able to make appropriate calculations, but negative in relation to the fact that some of the producers wanted to meet some of their quotas in this part of the day when they didn't have enough buyers of electricity and tried to provide everything to the National Electricity Company. The new package, which will be adopted in the European Union in connection with the promotion of renewable sources, should reach around 33% of final consumption by 2030. Either way, we'll go in the direction of encouraging them. Part of this promotion we do in this law by providing the opportunity for industrialists and companies that have production and need electricity, to build their own or to invite such investors to make renewables that, with direct cable to be connected to these enterprises, not to pay the corresponding obligations to the society, the transfer fee and delivery fee. In this way they will have a sufficiently competitive price compared to the market. On the other hand, we will encourage the development of this sector, we will increase, of course, and efficiency, and we will increase our commitments, respectively, which we will have by 2030. To increase renewables in Bulgaria. Of course, there are more things, but I think we can answer them in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, dear Mr. Atalay. I see you're preparing for a speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Firstly, I would like to point out that we are considering an amendment to the Energy Act and the main importer is not in the Chamber. In fact, I was going to suggest that we postpone the review of this bill, but Mr. Nikolov is here. I believe that during the review of the Bill at first reading, we noted some important things. Of course, there are positive things in this bill, but there are many paragraphs and articles that should mainly undergo a change between first and second readings. The main motive for liberalising the market sounds very good because whoever hears today about energy and liberalization of the market, then lights up immediately to reduce the price of the end consumer and everyone agrees, as we do, of course. The liberalisation of the market should happen. This time our experience with the removal of renewable energy sources over one megawatt on the market will give clarity when a year goes by, since we have made market liberalisation with renewable energy sources with more than four megawatts. Then we will also have the analysis from the Fund, of course, and from the Exchange how, in what way and whether the modification of the payment of preferential prices with the estimated price has not led to payment of more funds to electricity producers than if we have paid only the preferential price because such views are being concealed. However, the liberalisation of the market at the moment with RES alone with power over one megawatt will not reflect the lack of energy that took place during the winter periods, colleagues. That's why I wanted Mr. Dobrev to be here. The lack of energy happened just when there was no sun. Now we say we're going to deliver more energy to the stock exchange, and then we're going to increase liquidity, knowing that the sun isn't the energy that will contribute to more quantities on the stock exchange. Mr. Nikolov, I believe you agree with this? On this basis, however, some proposals and amendments are already being made, which make a very serious impression that there is interference with the Bill and it is not prepared by the Ministry of Energy. Obviously, the energy in Bulgaria is managed from some other places as well. I stand by my words, colleagues, because neither the State and the nuclear power plant in the opinion that they submitted in writing to the Ministry of Energy and Mr. Dobrev agree with any amendment and proposal that has been made in this law. However, the merchants are satisfied, and the industrialists are satisfied. Suddenly the question arises: have we found that balance needed for energy? For me, to put it a little softer, the changes to the smart measurement systems that need to be made between first and second readings must be very serious if we are going to please traders and make 10 kilos up to put smart meters. Before putting these smart meters, to make those internet and cable systems to any meter that will enter each apartment and subsequently reporting and giving data back from the user to the distributor, all of this, colleagues, if you consider costs, will enter into the price of the electricity that the end user will pay so you have recorded it. We give traders some way to navigate, to see who is the best customer they can sell electricity to, and at the same time we make each client take out of his pocket and pay for those costs that should be incurred. Colleagues, a very serious problem! I believe that those who have offered you this text should think not only about their own income. The other question, fellow Members, is about the condition in which you will leave the electrosystem operator. Of course, by means of the directives, we cannot fail to remove the relevant export charges, but at the same time we remain for imports, which is within about 5% to preserve the total energy from internal consumption, internal production to be used, but 84 million is the shortage of the electricity system operator. Where's that money coming from? How can the electricity system operator find the means to develop its network? Suddenly we come to the conclusion that the proposed text is again: producers and end users will have to find out how and how to participate in the repayment of the 84 million deficit. That's why I told you that I had doubts that there was serious interference, and not from the Ministry of Energy. Next problem. I will stress only these problems, which are obvious, and there are many others. The next problem, colleagues, is in relation to the co-generations. "Toplofication Sofia" provides half, or at least two thirds, of the heat output of Sofia and one part of the power output. I think Mrs. Fandakova should have paid very serious attention to Sofia's investment programme for co-generations that are currently looking for investors within about 300 megawatts. I believe that after we adopt this bill, "Toplofication Sofia" will remain with the old rusty pipes, "Toplofication Sofia" will remain with its old cogeneration power, which is not so highly efficient, which we are talking about, and we want the heat efficiencys to install the highly efficient ones. I understand that the competition beginning is in connection with the European Commission Directive, but there they say: the competition beginning is over one megawatt to one megawatt is not necessary. You have found an opportunity that there is almost a pile of money in Bulgaria. This money for other cogenerations, except for those built at the moment, is used as a cold reserve and will be included, as Mr. Nikolov said, with the direct cable to connect to their own productions, and the remaining power sells it as a cold reserve. They are the main opponents to further develop our cogeneration power. We gotta find the balance, guys! I am not about raising the price of electricity by giving preferential prices to any, but when it is a new power, with greater efficiency, which is useful for society. Such laws should be made. Otherwise, I can tell you that from this bill, when we looked at it at first reading, the industrialists were most pleased because with the changes that are being made here, they will receive electricity at a lower price. I welcome them for their attempt to do so. These changes pleased traders to see with what voice, but they were not satisfied producers were neither TPP-2 nor NPP. During the speech they drank a cold water. I'm done, guys. There are also positive things, of course, access with the direct cable, connection without passing through the electricity system operator, to drop certain charges to these manufacturers, I understand, but everything else to refine, colleagues, to find the balance, so that we have safe and stable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atalay, thank you for the constructive criticism you've made. Of course, you, as an experienced politician, are manipulating some essential things from time to time from the Law, but I still have to say some things about the so-called, as you said, smart meters, i.e. measuring instruments. They will in no way burden consumers, because this also confirmed the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. Realistically, we have the following paradox - a discotheque, for example, that we know works logically at night, its profile being daily. Usually, eight to ten days of electricity distribution companies delay schedules to traders, regardless of what they are. This gives them the opportunity to make their schedules pretty much close to their desires, not to the real realities. When you are a consumer of electricity and you believe that your schedule, which has been submitted to you, is not real, in this case you can invest in such a measuring device. The owner will be the electricity distribution company, but you will invest, knowing then that by detecting online you can, first of all, monitor and achieve the necessary efficiency. That is to manipulate, in the good sense of the word, your production in such a way as to achieve a level of electricity consumption in the desired time range and therefore reduce your electricity price. And you will pay for what you used, not what you were written as a schedule. I think this is a good change that does not affect electricity producers in any way. It may affect electricity distribution companies, it may affect traders, but not consumers of electricity, they will not pay for this thing. As for producers, you are referring to TPP-2, Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant. It is no secret to anyone that Kozloduy is the main backbone of our electricity generation. In fact, he pays all the mistakes, he pays all the problems. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These changes will also affect the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and will affect TPP-2, but will affect all producers as well. The alternative to what you said about the hole that happens at the Electrosystem Operator is that users pay. I don't think your constituents would want that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nikolov, we can draw from all my speeches so far, since you are in this National Assembly, and show me a place where I have manipulated and that what I have told you has not happened in connection with energy. Don't take me for Vanga, I don't see it, but in energy, the things that are recorded remain. You remember from the first days when you reduced the number of KEWRC, what I told you, and I keep telling you. But you give me one argument. I don't know what discotheque is, I don't go to discotheques. Obviously, GERB attends this disco very much. Tell me, is this disco 10 kilos of electricity? And each apartment starts at 10 kilos. Colleagues, if it's just this discotheque that you're having a problem with?! The problem in your Law I told you, let's do it from 100 kilos. Once and for all, let's do the trial period, no one's against it. You know, 2020 is the time limit where smart systems should start to be installed under the European directives, but you want within a month to happen up to 10 kilos that is the problem. Otherwise, I'm going to this disco. First reading was this disco, and now this disco. As for the nuclear power plant. Who took the money from the nuclear power plant to pay the low price you set with the KEWRC to the power plant? Three hundred and sixty million this year alone. Next year, you said you'd get another 460 million from the nuclear power plant. You're decapitalizing both the nuclear power plant and the power plant. Colleagues, you're putting the energy back in that state where, in the previous term here, we sat down, made some laws, and had zeroed energy losses. You know that. Now, in your quest to remain in power, you have brought energy into collapse. I'm telling you again, it's not just the Ministry's fault. The interference in this system outside, in this debalanced system, in order to benefit only one part of society, does not lead to good, colleagues. That's what my appeal is for. Otherwise you are in power as you wish, so do you. In a month, in two months we'll talk about how many smarts or smart meters you've installed in the apartments. Who paid for the part where inside his house he would put in and watch every day how much electricity he spent, whether to turn off his washing machine, whether to turn on his stove, where and how to watch him iron. If the costs he's going to make for all this, he can't pay them, not to say how much he pays. That's my question, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches? Here you are, dear Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because I couldn't finish the line, so I'll use it as a speech. Not to be impressed by our colleagues and viewers who are interested in it being an obligation. No, it's optional. Anyone who wants can invest in these measuring instruments. It is not necessary and it does not have to happen in every single home. Even I would not advise anyone with low consumption to invest in such measuring instruments, because there will be no return. This will make it undertakings eventually, will make it large producers who do not have them. So much for these measuring instruments. I think we're going in the right direction with liberalisation, step by step. At some point Bulgaria, thank God, will find itself in an absolute competitive market. Any household with a computer click will be able to buy electricity from anyone who wants, at a price offered to it by various traders. So it will come, and it is not very far away, and this issue will not have a regulated market, but will only have a free market. There will be enough producers due to the fact that the European Union is going to encourage producers from renewable sources, it will encourage the storage of electricity through batteries, whether through other means of storing electricity. We will have as electricity-producing entities enough that will accordingly offer this electricity on the free market, so that's where we are going. This step was mandatory, I would even say that we are late with market liberalisation. As for other changes in relation to the deficit caused by the electricity system operator, yes, it is, but it is our obligation. We have slowed it down long enough, so there is no way we will have the opportunity to extend the deadline for the elimination of charges in relation to the export of electricity. After all, the market is no longer just Bulgarian. The market is a common, European market, and for this reason we must take into account precisely this common European market. This brings in some times negatives for certain producers, but as a general consumer they benefit from this common European market. Of course, between first and second readings, it is good to iron out the texts. There are two readings in this Parliament for a reason, but as a philosophy I think the Law is good. There was not a single representative of an association, not a single representative of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, who said he did not agree with this law. There were criticisms, of course, but on specific texts. We'll sit down and look at them together. We have to be precise because we can do harm. But rest assured that this law will not be a reason to create an imbalance in energy. This law will not be a reason that at some point a problem may arise, especially in NPP-2, because it does not normally concern it directly and directly. If there is such a thing, it will be generated by the carbon market, on which the price will either way increase and create great pressure and problem in the production of electricity from coal. This is clear to everyone, so measures and strategy must be identified. By next year we have to adopt Bulgaria's energy strategy by 2030. In the short term, and until 2050, A longer period. It is there together that we must identify measures in energy if we do not really want to get a big problem that we already see. We see the deficits that are created in some companies, and the others, unfortunately, are saving them. Together we need to think about this issue, but this is not the subject of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u35	Mr. Nikolov, I see your inconvenience, even in your entire parliamentary group, to support this bill. The very sentence that it is desirable to do, for example, you said about measuring instruments, how will you write it in the text in the Law? A law is written precisely and clearly. You have said that within a month, or up to three months thereafter, up to 10 kilos, this is what the Law says. Otherwise, colleagues, I say again: support at first reading if you want. I won't support it. But between first and second readings, if the lobbying texts are not removed, if the balance is not found, this bill will contribute to very large whites in energy. That's what my concern is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Is there another line? I won't. Dear Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Atalay, so that it doesn't come up on the front page that we're obliged to have the honorable users change their devices, I'll read it just in case: In § 15, Article 15 of the Law on the Law on the A client with a 10 kW power supply and more than 10 kW may request a request from the transmission or distribution system operator to replace a measuring instrument with an intelligent measurement system under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 of the Energy Efficiency Act. The replacement shall be carried out within 30 days and after he has stated, and not that all must change their measuring instruments and so on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is to say, anyone can ask for and, in order not to prove endless, the period within which they will replace the measuring instrument, gives the relevant network operator a time limit to replace the measuring instrument. That's absolutely wishful thinking, as I said. Just clean it up as a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-04.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone else. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the plenary. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 954-01-16, tabled by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. They voted 105 MPs: 97, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We continue with parliamentary control announcements on 5 April 2019: 1. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer three questions from the MPs Krastina Taskova two questions; Krasen Krastev. 2. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer three questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev; Alexander Matsurev; Sergey Kichikov. 3. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer four questions from the MPs Boriana Georgieva; Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; Tanya Petrova and Emilia Staneva-Milkova; Alexander Sabanov. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer four questions from the MPs Galya Zhelyazkova; Alexander Matsurev. 5. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Emilia Staneva-Milkova "two questions; Radoslava Chekanska. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer six questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov, Daniela Dimitrova, two questions, Nikolay Alexandrov; Evgenia Alexieva; Hristo Grudev. 7. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova. 8. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Alexander Matsurev; Daniela Saveklieva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Elena Axieva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to two questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev; Stanislav Stanilov; and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Milena Damyanova, Galya Zaharieva, Svetlana Angelova and Venka Stoyanova. Due to the absence of the MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Sabev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova is postponed. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Affairs Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. The next regular meeting of 9:00 p.m., 5 April 2019, according to the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
