ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the Work Programme of the National Assembly for today's meeting the following additional point: Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with an importer the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 December 2019 and propose to become the first point for today's plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u2	How do we vote? [[Noise and lines.]] There are proposals on the agenda!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u3	I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u4	There are suggestions! First, the proposals are being discussed!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u5	Isn't it one by one that we vote on the proposals, Mr. Karadayi?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u6	First, the proposals are being discussed! [[Noise and lines.]] The proposals are discussed and then voted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u7	Stand by, guys. 200 MPs voted: 122 against 27, abstention 51. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, there is a decision No 1694-NS to announce Rosen Malinov Malinov as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia. An entry No. NS-02-25 from 27 November 2019 in the Central Election Commission was received a letter from the National Assembly informing that on 27 November 2019 the People's Representative Stefan Lambov Danailov, elected from the list of Coalition BSP to Bulgaria, died in the Twenty-fourth Election Region of Sofia, at the elections for MPs in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In relation to art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is the subject of a request in the Central Election Commission to announce as a representative the next candidate from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria. In view of the above: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Announcing Rosen Malinov Malinov, EGN..., as MP from the Forty-fourth National Assembly from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria Please invite the candidate for the MP. Here you go, Mr. Malinov, repeat after me. [[All MPs become.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u8	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u9	Congratulations! Welcome! Thanks, guys! Procedure, Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professor Lyuben Andonov Kornezov left us on November 30, 2019. We were left by a centurion of parliamentaryism, one of the creators of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, a worthy and respected political personality. Lyuben Kornezov was a MP at the Seventh Grand National Assembly and at the Forty-First National Assembly. He was Vice-President of the Thirty-eighth, Thirty-nineth and Fortyth Parliament, was judge and chair of the Yambol and Targovishte District Court, lecturer in Civil Process, Deputy Minister of Justice, constitutional judge. He was one of the parents and founder of tri-instant civil production in democratic Bulgaria. More than once, Professor Kornezov has brightened this tribune with his unique oratory style. He had a brilliant legal thought, which he was trying very hard to legislate, which gave him great authority as a highly qualified lawyer and principled MP. Professor Kornezov is gone, but we believe that his behavior will forever remain a role model for us and for those who follow us. So, Madam President, I ask you, with a moment of silence, to honor Professor Kornezov's memory.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u11	Please, colleagues, let's stand up and pay our respects to our colleague Professor Kornezov. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] Bow to his memory! Thank you. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the airspace and the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of an aircraft with its crew of the Air-space Forces of the Russian Federation for the transport of military production from Russia to Serbia. The permit is valid for flying from Russia to Serbia and back from 1 to 8 December 2019. The competent state authorities have been notified in accordance with the provisions of the Law. The notification was received on 29 November 2019. No 903 09-78 and granted to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, 3 December 2019. First, I ask for a procedure for admission in the Chamber of the proposed Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ms. Denitsa Sacheva. Vote 206 MPs: 151, against 25, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Sacheva to the hall. I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev to introduce us to Mrs. Sacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov and for the election of Ms. Denitsa Sacheva as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Denitsa Sacheva has a Bachelor's degree in social pedagogy and two Master's degrees in health management and public relations respectively. He began his career at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, where he took different positions from a specialist to a Head of Sector at the National Centre for Social Assistance. She is one of the first ten employees of the National Health Insurance Fund, where she works as head of the International Cooperation, European Integration and Projects Directorate. In 1999 he was head of the cabinet of the Minister of Health, where he was responsible for relations with international institutions, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission. From 2016 to 2017 she was Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. As Deputy Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Sacheva was directly responsible for one of the most successful policies in the government's activities, namely returning to the class of over 40 thousand children. He speaks fluent English, uses German and Russian. On the basis of the above and the fact that in the years Ms. Denitsa Sacheva has established herself as an expert and head of social policy, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft decision on the election of Ms. Denitsa Sacheva as Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go. First of all, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable ministers! I now understand that this morning there was some so-called Coalition Council, which gathered GERB and the United Patriarchs, where Ms. Sacheva's candidacy was discussed. Whether she was here in the parliament room or not. That's the kind of thing I heard. What I saw last night in the information stream is that there is already a press release: at 12:00 Mrs. Sacheva will accept the post at the Social Ministry. Such butaphorical advice is good to do, of course, to see people, but only Nokia connects them to something else. Such a coalition council, for example, was not made when the Chairman of the group of the United Patriarchs was replaced. After all, let's talk about Mrs. Sacheva's candidacy. This presentation, which was made by the Deputy Prime Minister, was biographical, but here we are choosing a person who needs to know what he stands for, what he is fighting for. We have not heard what Mrs. Sacheva's attitude will be for the annulment of the Social Services Act; what will Mrs. Sacheva's attitude as a social minister in relation to the Istanbul Convention be like - does she accept it, does she reject it?! You know, since last week is the issue that was raised by the European Parliament, towards Bulgaria. The position of "Attack" is clear: we demand that the Social Services Act be rejected. Whoever has the time to devote a few minutes of his life just to read the arguments against the Social Services Act will give himself a clear account that this is a Law that should not be changed. Here, with this law, unfortunately, adopted by our National Assembly, we are turning the social sphere into another auction deal. And we shouldn't let that happen, we should fight this. Social services should be social services. With this law, which was passed at the beginning of this year, things have changed in a very radical and incorrect way. Therefore, as you know, we have informed you that we have done what is necessary and that the journalists should reflect it two weeks ago we have submitted a request for this Social Services Act to be repealed, to sit back as people, to tell the tale, to discuss things, but not to rush this extremely sensitive sphere. You know people are very sensitive about that. This is the position of the Ataka under the Social Services Act we want its annulment. I want to hear Mrs. Sacheva's position. The same for the Istanbul Convention. It cannot in such a wrong way impose on our country:..take this convention..as Minister Zaharieva said....because if we do not accept it, you see, it will not be accepted in Europe. Well, well, people, we have a ruling of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court says that this is contrary to our Constitution. I want to know what Mrs. Sacheva's opinion is clearly and categorically. That's what I'm sending to the Council of Ministers and to Mrs. Sacheva, come out and say yes/no! In view of your biography, I read it, I also heard the minister who introduced you, and the only thing that impressed me is that you were born in the town of Dobrich. What you have as a background, what we think and analyze that your position is rather: no! We don't speak about it here, and you know that there are also these pictures on the Internet with Syrian citizens that Syrian citizens are then expelled from the DANS. If we must, we will also open the question: will you be a social minister for the refugees or a social minister for the Bulgarians? Please step out on the stand and tell us about the Istanbul Convention and the annulment of the Social Services Act. We at Ataka will vote against. If you say you're going to abolish these laws, then we'll change our minds. Smart people can think and they can change their minds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? [[Heckling]] Procedure? Please come in as per procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u16	Dear President, honourable ministers, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! My speech is in the procedure and in the course of the procedure in which we are present. The Deputy Prime Minister reported that Minister Petkov was asked to be dismissed from the team and resigned. According to the official information we have, the Prime Minister requested Mr. Petkov's resignation, he submitted it and this time it was accepted. In this sense, we need not only the motives, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, so why are you proposing a new minister, but we would like to hear why the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, has requested Mr. Petkov's resignation. This is in the course of the procedure we are in, and it is different from what you have told us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Stoinev, come in. Then Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u18	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Today we are discussing the removal of one and the appointment of another social minister. Another rockade in power for you is a tradition, but for us it is a very serious symptom of blocking management systems. The Minister's change is a recognition of failure in the sector; a sign of an impasse in dealing with a particular problem or a series of problems; we all know what the problems in the social sphere are: a broken system of social assistance; huge social inequalities; a million and a half pensions below the poverty line; the artificially created problem with the hospital of the workers and the failure of deinstitutionalization. The minister's shift suggests a crisis in each prime minister's management team and holds the door open to a political crisis. The change of a social minister is categorical proof that the state does not work much more than one system. Social policy is that neural point that brings together financial stability, economic vitality, demographic policy, the state of education and health, minority problems, the level of poverty, social and pension insurance in one country. The Minister's change now means recognition that all these topics in Bulgaria are hanging. We have, colleagues, a systemic problem for three mandates, true and incomplete, GERB has carried out no successful reform! Moreover, you from GERB broke whole systems. The administrative system, of course, filled it with party loyal incompetents, but you also failed in the e-government. You've spent nearly $2 billion. lv. and there is no e-government yet. After this did not work out, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev transferred the hot potato to Mariana Nikolova. The education system. We give birth to functional illiterate children, non-competitive higher education [[noise and lines]] He's got a penchant for charity science. Moreover, we have reached this point, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that we have also begun to translate under the yoke. After all, here we will elect a minister, dear Patriots, and I address you, for whom there has been no Turkish slavery. For him there was, I quote, an Ottoman presence. That is, you agree with such a characteristic, dear Patriots. Our health system. The lack of footage is already a fact and it was no accident because of a ward, how was it, Mr. Minister, with four beds, we could not provide the necessary footage.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u19	Mr. Stoynev, we're discussing the social minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u20	Yes, but this concerns the entire government.. a change affects the whole government. I will not go back to these stolen funds by the Bulgarian citizens, whom you from GERB in your first term diverted from the Health Insurance Fund because they were intended for reform, but it is obviously more important to drain the Cashier's money.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u21	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u22	"Standart & Poor's" raised our rating, but why are we last in terms of gross domestic product and per capita consumption?! [[Noise and lines.]] Even Croatia, the new member state, has surpassed us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u23	Mr. Stoinev, this is a political declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u25	On behalf of the group, I see?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u26	But wait! Here, of course, we talk.. when one post is changed, the whole government depends.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u27	We are debating the change of a minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u28	If this post is not accepted, the government may fall, so let me finish my speech. [[Noise and lines.]] Since we are at the last place on this so important economic indicator that the finance minister and prime minister boast, despite Croatia's new membership, perhaps that is why we are so keen on Northern Macedonia and Albania quickly becoming members of the European Union, so that we are not last on this so important indicator for our country. [[Noise.]] For three terms, it has not changed the outdated and fruitless understanding that everything good comes from the outside that we need to take ready democratic models in quotes that will fix us that the photos with the strong external factors will bring us prosperity. We have lost character, lost authority, lost our Bulgarian potential to implement reforms that we need; we have become territory for imported experiments and ready money. Unfortunately, the social system is among the most affected by this. Biser Petkov was one of GERB's most diagnostic individuals, trying to do something even with their hands tied. He was more diagnostic with people than with the factors in the system. Probably, colleagues, it was his system error. We do not deny that Denitsa Sacheva has a rich expert, civil, consultant, pianist, party and administrative career. We see it from its official biography beginning with the dark blue of Ivan Kostov and reaching the European blue of GERB. Her career, however, is marked by several scandalous cases of spending so-called genders in secondary school. I won't go into details. Would he not now, as a social minister, continue to do so through the instruments of social inclusion, backed up with a great deal of money?! And who will control this when the majority in parliament has no character and courage?! Jender's ideology is returning to the political field again, and I am very interested in how fellow Patriots will vote for this particular minister?! I will end with this: the lack of a management strategy for reforms, a dying state, the disappearing political figures lead to crises and poverty, but they open up multiple loopholes for experiments, interests and samples that are harmful to us and to our children. How long will you continue to agree with this, Members of the majority, depends solely on you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First I wanted to refute a number of inaccuracies or frank delusions in Mr. Stoinev's statement in this wide perimeter, because we only missed the subject of Harry Potter's illustrations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u31	Please, regarding the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u32	In fact, I would like to say something else, not as much politics as life has taught me that someone speaks loudly or screams when there is nothing to say. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u33	Thank you, dear Minister. It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u34	Of course, I have the right to a personal explanation and, of course, when a politician experiences injustice; when he is seen as helpless to change his mind or try to explain to his colleagues that what is being done is in the wrong direction, sometimes he resorts to raising his tone. Of course, there were many passions in this room, but this is part of democracy. There were those when Bulgarian democracy was created, and there were great speakers on this platform. At the same time, it annoys me most in politics to be a talker when you're dealing with problems and you can't bring them to the end; when you spend 2 billion. BGN, without accomplishing absolutely nothing, and then escape from these obligations. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u36	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I'll speak quietly. [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u37	Quiet, please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u38	The Prime Minister requested and accepted the resignation of the social minister Biser Petkov with arguments, accumulated in time grounds, slowing down the pace in the social sphere, whatever that means, and so on. By the way, for the resignation of the social minister there are always occasions and enough critical mass dissatisfied, so I am not surprised by the resignation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I am surprised that the entire government does not resign because the economic and especially social policy of this government is disastrous for the state. The economy is in crisis and is conquered by fewer but close to power people. The social policy of the cabinet is unstable, inequalities reach higher thresholds, poverty increases and knocks on the threshold of more and more Bulgarian families and they fall below the official poverty threshold. Biser Petkov is a professional. Another question is that the policy that is being conducted in the social sphere is not drawn from it as a minister, but depends on an agreement in the ruling coalition, which is not particularly stable, is formed by the finance minister, who gives money for everything but social policy and, above all, on the Prime Minister's moods, whether what he sees from the jeep window, likes it or not. At the moment, the ruling majority has no vision of the social sphere and not only cannot solve social problems, but also deepens them. This is why there are protests of social workers, of health workers, of non-acceptable policies for children, pensioners, trade unions, employers and others. I have no sentiments for former Minister Petkov because, although he is a professional, he has agreed to become a minister in a government that has no clear vision for social policy development. As a country in Europe, Bulgaria is expected to have a high level of social protection and offer a good standard of living. However, this is not the case. We are far from European standards, and this leads to Euroscepticism, something that we absolutely do not need in the general context of the development of a united Europe. For some ten years the management of GERB has accumulated many problems in the social sphere related to gigantic inequalities, with the lack of prospects for much of the Bulgarians, including some of the young people, related to the isolation of people in a difficult material situation, doomed to deprivation and hunger. The Bulgarian has many problems, but above all they stand out: unacceptable high levels of poverty and inequality; low incomes; demographic problem with the rapidly ageing population; commercialized health care; banged pension insurance system; inadequate education; unfair social system; serious regional differences; lack of integration in the Bulgarian society of ethnic minorities; especially of Roma; lack of labour and whatnot. Do you notice that most of these are social problems and there is no vision for solving them? This is because at the moment social policy is, delicately put, the stepchild of this government is not efficient, it is inertial and ineffective, connected with increasing costs, but not with achieving sustainable results. Social policies are not sufficiently oriented towards those who really need support and therefore fail to lead to efficiency and results. According to Eurostat, Bulgaria is the country that gives the least money for pensions and benefits, and we rank among the seven countries of the European Union with the lowest social costs. These costs in Bulgaria are only 17% of gross domestic product. In comparison, the European Union average share is 27.9%. In Bulgaria, in practice, if we look from the perspective of the allocated funds, we can safely state that there is no social policy. After this resignation it becomes clear that Biser Petkov had no real support either from the prime minister or from the finance minister, and without such support from any labor minister it would be impossible for him to solve serious social problems. He seems to have misunderstood his task at the Social Ministry. He shouldn't have been conducting, he should have been imitating social policy. Now the prime minister expects the new minister to be a more experienced manipulator and to regularly take serious social success into account. Thus we come to this: who will we choose today as Minister of Labour and Social Policy? I want to address Mrs. Sacheva that these are facts and nothing personal, Mrs. Sacheva. It is not for the first time that a minister will be appointed a person whose vision and competence for the sphere that will lead and form a policy are unclear. The Prime Minister says: "It is only my right to appoint ministers. So Mrs. Sacheva's appointment becomes his problem. However, its failures will not only be the Prime Minister and the government, but for all Bulgarians and most of all for those in need of support from the state. Although she was briefly in the recent past Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I doubt Mrs. Sacheva fully knows the problems in the social sphere and has a vision for solving them. This makes me think that the government does not intend to reform the social sphere, but only patch up the situation somehow by the end of the term. In Mrs. Sacheva's impressive biography there are also some curious details. I remember the scandal with the poll organized by the NGO Foundation, Jender Education, Research and Technology, which developed a large-scale activity in Bulgarian education and which blew up the society. The scandal developed with the serious participation of Mrs. Sacheva as Deputy Minister of Education. I should also mention the fact that she has been a defender of the Istanbul Convention, even though she has already been rejected by the Bulgarian Constitutional Court. All of this, along with other details of her career, makes people suspect that through it a new attempt will be made to push through all the gender ideologies in Bulgaria. Here, I pay special attention to the MPs from the small partner in the coalition. Keep in mind that if you vote for Mrs. Sacheva's choice, you will not have the right to represent yourself as fighters for Bulgarianism and as fighters against gender ideology because you support one of her most jealous supporters. Ms. Denitsa Sacheva's proposal for a social minister is not surprising, but this clear neoliberal policy that you are leading, including in the social sphere, will not be of much use to her to solve or at least mitigate social problems. The problem is hardly the minister's personality. Rather, it is entirely in the policy that you are leading because Biser Petkov is the sixth minister, who since 2017 for one reason or another is leaving this cabinet, and things instead of improving are going towards deterioration. If you remain in power, this minister will have to solve a number of problems and, in order to be aware of everyone who will support it today, what policies does it stand for, must clearly, categorically and unambiguously answer a few questions: should we expect the thawing of social payments? The 2020 budget is on the agenda and there are many proposals in this direction, and not only from BSP. Should we expect a change in the vision of pensioners' incomes and their long-awaited recalculation of pensions as the only opportunity to overcome the differences between old and new pensions and in general to raise miserablely low pensions? What concrete action will you take to address the demographic crisis? What policies will he make regarding the payment of pensions to the people of the Second Pillar of the pension system, the additional compulsory pension insurance? What will be the actions to reduce structural unemployment and increase people's incomes? What will be its position on the ever increasing attacks on the withdrawal of trade union and labour rights by the workers, an example is the payment of temporary disability benefits? What will be the decisions on labour expertise in favour of people with disabilities or in the direction of cutting their rights? What will be the decisions to improve working conditions and pay for social workers? And something very important: what will she do to bring down public tensions and protests against the Social Services Act? These are very pressing questions and, of course, not only that. We, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, had provided for a hearing on these issues, especially under the Social Services Act, of already former Minister Petkov. Now from this tribune again I invite Mrs. Sacheva to be elected Minister of Labour and Social Policy, to make such a discussion about these issues raised by us. Refusal from a meeting will be an abdication from her duties as social minister. We will not support, it is clear, the change is not because of the proposed person, but because of our conviction that even the biggest expert to put for a social minister, under this policy that you are leading, there is no future for the Bulgarian people. We will not support change because we are principled and we are for another type of genuine social policy. We will not support the change because with every day of your government, honourable gentlemen, Bulgaria is sinking and fatally moving away from the notions of a modern social and rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u40	Can we extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u41	Extend group time. I can't see. Mr. Ademov, come in. Then there's Mrs. Anastasova. Then Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try, unlike colleagues, to speak more quietly in the hope of saying something more essential. The first thing I would like to say is that we in our parliamentary group strongly disagree with the procedure for including the item on the agenda. Why? Because in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly..................................................................................... 48, para. 3, it is said that the agenda shall be voted in advance for extraordinary sittings. The agenda for today's sitting was voted on last week and it includes two points. Nothing extraordinary, nothing sober, as recorded in our Rules, requires the inclusion of other points. The current Minister of Labour and Social Policy is fulfilling its duties until the election of a new minister. So there is no reason for this item to be included on the agenda of today's sitting. Therefore, our parliamentary group strongly disagrees with the procedure for including this item on the agenda of today's sitting. And now a few words to the substance of the change of one minister to another. Which of the problems in social policy solves this personnel change? There are two things that have been absolutely undisputed in the public discussion since Friday. The first thing is that it is the Prime Minister who is entitled to request and receive the resignation of each of the ministers in the cabinet. Second undoubtedly, it is that Biser Petkov is a person with extremely serious expertise and no one contests the expert and professional qualities of the minister, who is proposed to be released. These are the two that have been absolutely indisputable in the discussion since Friday. Now a few words about the motives proposed by the change of Minister of Labour and Social Policy: slow pace rhythm of reforms in the social sphere. I will give you a few examples to show you that this is not because of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. First of all, at the beginning of the term of office Biser Petkov and his team proposed a concept of reform in TELK, and their proposal was to separate the expertise of workability from medical expertise. This was a proposal from Minister Biser Petkov's team. This concept was rejected on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, was frozen by law. If this reform had been adopted if all that was written in this concept had been implemented, we would not be talking now about the TELK reform being preserved. Secondly, as regards the settlement of the payment phase by private pension pillars. Last year, in August, a working group of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy announced and proposed the final texts to solve this problem. In addition, in 2015 the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2016/849 [2] appointing the members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 for the period from 1 January for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 January for the period from 1 January for the period from 1 January for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2020 for the period from 1 January for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2020. Since the beginning of 2016, it has been possible for all insured persons to be able to transfer funds from their individual accounts to the National Insurance Institute, a large-scale campaign has been launched This concept, these amendments to the bill in the Social Security Code were adopted last year by the working group, only that colleagues from the Ministry of Finance had objections to these texts. In any case, these texts did not see the light of day, so it was necessary two or three weeks ago, because the sacred year 2021, when the payment of the first cohort of pensions from the second pillar began, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy presented the draft against which there were certain objections. There can be no full agreement on these projects; consent must be sought. Minister Petkov is the man who was absolutely dialogue with NGOs, with the Mothers Association, with the social partners. Unfortunately, he did not find support from his colleagues in the Council of Ministers. Why am I saying this? Because the policies that any Minister of Labour and Social Policy implement are multidisciplinary policies. A minister, whoever he is, cannot solve all these problems, if he does not have the support of the Minister of Health, of the Minister of Education, I open a clamp to the relations with the labour market, of the other ministers, not to miss the Minister of Finance. This is extremely important so that social problems can be solved. If the new minister does not have the support of his colleagues, if the new minister does not have the support of the parliamentary group and the majority, whatever measures he proposes, they will hang in the air and will be implemented in the way Minister Petkov tried to implement them. Unfortunately, a minister, when elected, must have several qualities in his profile. He must have expertise in the work for which a minister has been elected. Why did I say that I was very sorry? Because very rarely are such people to seal their expertise with communicative capabilities. This is extremely important, even mandatory, in order for policies in the individual sector to be an explanation. I say this because I am convinced that Minister Petkov spoke in a different language. Minister Petkov spoke in expert language and not accidentally, as the Prime Minister said, his colleagues did not want to work with him. They probably didn't understand his language. That's my guess. [[(Radio.) Replices.)]] This is extremely important in order to further communicate between the different ministers, communication within the cabinet, communication between the Council of Ministers, the individual ministers, the ruling majority, the National Assembly, society as a whole, so that social problems can be resolved. Otherwise, the change of the Minister of the Principle "Get up and sit down" will not solve any of the issues in the social sphere. It will not solve any of the issues in the social sphere, because Minister Sacheva will find the same problems that are in the Ministry. Moreover, very soon more serious problems will be added to these problems in this area, because the social dissension in society is what irritates all Bulgarian citizens, what weighs on all Bulgarian citizens. Soon Eurostat came up with an announcement that Bulgaria is in the top seven countries that spend at least the funds for social security, support and care in the European Union. While in the European Union an average of gross domestic product is allocated 27.9%, in Bulgaria this percentage is 17. Our hope is not to pour more money into this system. God forbid such an offer! My hope is that the money they have on the social sphere will be spent effectively. With these arguments our parliamentary will not support the proposed draft decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ademov, in my presentations so far you have been a person who passes as a specialist, for a person who always places emphasis on the essentials, on professionalism, I would say. In this case, you made a statement that was purely political. I can call it shallow and petty. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I can do that evaluation. That's right! Because there were a lot of false claims in it, there were references, there were suggestions, and eventually all this was about the election of a new minister, the change of one minister from the government to another. I think you shouldn't put so much energy, hysteria, so much importance in giving one very natural change of one minister to another. Perhaps the only thing I can accept from your statement is a few good words for Mr. Biser Petkov. I, too, would support such a good assessment of the efforts that this man has made. On the other hand, I am surprised by your lack of knowledge regarding the movement of bills, of regulations in the Council of Ministers and in the executive, if you claim to be a specialist in social affairs not only to deal with documents in the National Assembly, but to look at what is really going on in the executive. You said some nonsense that I don't know where you heard from that the government almost stopped and froze the movement of the preparation of medical expertise documents, on the one hand, and labor expertise. Well, there's no such thing! There's no such thing! Second, this was almost an initiative by Biser Petkov. That's not true either. Here is Minister Ananiev, whom we have worked with. This was the result of a joint, long work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u45	The weather, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u46	He just doesn't answer the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u47	Thank you. Mr. Petrov gave up a line. You won't have a hole, Mr. Ademov. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! Outside the statement, I expected in Mr. Donchev's short line, after Mr. Stoinev's speech, to try to disprove him, rather than simply make remarks as a class leader. Leave that to me. After all, I've had some professional distortions for so many years at school. It's more important with arguments. Mrs. Sacheva's biography is really impressive. I can share impressions of her work as Deputy Minister of Education, but really, when a person, somewhere I read that reading the biography, starts to gasp. This is really impressive in 20 years of professional travel. As Deputy Minister of Education Mrs. Sacheva answered, in her portfolio were the problems of inclusive education. This is a very difficult problem for the Bulgarian school. It is a problem that is well developed in the new secondary education law. Despite my remarks to the Law, this part has been developed well in my opinion. The bad news is that in three years of the Law, we have virtually no results. I don't have time to justify myself here, but teachers best know how much weight they have on their backs and how, in fact, what at least had to be put at first, because this is a reform, it really is a reform in education, and at first there had to be a basis for this reform to start, it's actually gone. And that's why the assistant minister is directly responsible. We have a lack of resource teachers, we have a lack of psychologists, we don't have proper offices in schools, we don't have such offices in many places at all, we don't have proper equipment where there are such offices. Apart from that, in the framework of inclusive education and inclusive education policies, the mechanism for the coverage of children and their detention at school was developed, for which Mrs. Sacheva was also responsible. Apart from the Ministry's PR shares, we understand from the biography that she is also very aware of the PR primos, so except for them, in this mechanism we will see that teachers and schools were again left in 90% of the cases alone. If Mrs. Sacheva is now elected Social Minister, perhaps she will cause social services to be activated so that they can really help teachers and really solve this problem. The issue of the survey of 9-year-olds in 2018 is also minor, these are second-graders, to make it clearer to you, on a topic we call with the common words "gender problem." I'm not saying that to make smokes right now. I say this because this poll in Bulgarian schools was spread after the ratification of the Istanbul Convention was suspended, not before. That is, when a person is a deputy minister and is responsible for a problem, he should be aware of the legal basis, should be aware of his actions as a person who should respect this base and not allow such phenomena in the Bulgarian school. You know, at the time, parents' concerns were on a national scale. Then, of course, there were other similar surveys, otherwise leaked from the Ministry of Health and so on. I say all this because when one person decides that he can take on this very serious post, really in confirmation of the words of Mr. Ademov, he should be divisive with all the other ministries and ministers. And not only dialogueal, it must protect the country's legal norms and realize that it works primarily with people. I personally will not vote for Mrs. Sacheva as Minister of Social Services. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. - What's the line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I feel like we're not here to choose a minister, but to choose a pope! [[Radio.]] Why, again, is this hysteria? Why the negativity? Why the denial? After all, the minister is a representative, in this case he is a representative of one of the ruling parties and he is obliged to implement the Management Program. Nothing more, nothing less! Don't give him too much opportunity to commit large-scale universe misdeeds like Darth Vader. Not like that! [[Noise and lines.]] Get down on the ground! After all, what's the situation? Currently, Bulgaria is governed by coalition government, by two political forces, GERB and United Patriarchs. This position of Minister of Labour and Social Policy is of the Political Party GERB. It is normal for them to offer a representative, it is normal for him to be approved. For this reason, we have approved it after we have done appropriate consultations and talks with it. I don't see why we have to be so convinced in advance that this man, this lady, is not going to do her job. Why, I don't understand. You focus on certain moments in her biography, her speeches, which I have not checked, because I have not followed her speeches, statements and so on, but she will be a minister and will comply with the mandatory requirements laid down in the Programme of this Ministry. Nothing more, nothing less! It will implement the decisions made by this particular political coalition, which we represent. And from this point of view, I want to reassure both BSP colleagues and DPS colleagues that there will be no gaps! You can be sure of that. [[Relations from the National Representative Hamid Hamid.]] At the very least, because of this history of the United Patriots, in which there are two parties, one with history over a hundred years, but we, as a coalition, are changing reality because, as the Bulgarians are a state-owned people, Mr Hamid, so the Patriots are a state-owned political force. I'm holding a volvo! First of all, the interest of the state! When in the late 1990s no one was talking about patriotism, no one was talking about the value system of the Bulgarian people, traditions, folklore, we were at the same time constantly fighting our difficult, ungrateful battle and at the present time, as far as I can see, all parties here in this Parliament are patriots, including DPS. That's what we've lived to do! Is that right? That's right! Therefore, the Patriots change reality in Bulgaria! They can impose what they have to impose! The same applies naturally to my respect for our larger partner GERB. There were talk of all kinds of stupidity, for example, about other members of the government. Can anyone now, at this moment, deny that Mr. Tomislav Donchev is a true patriot? Can anyone deny it? You can't! [[Noise and lines.]] This applies to all ministers. So will Mrs. Sacheva. All the more so, I would like to draw your attention to a small detail of her biography. She has grown up in the family of a true patriot who has made an immense effort to gather all historical information from the deepest ancient times and to write this book. [[Shows the book.]] Read it! A father like that can't help but raise his children in patriotism! Thank you. Let's give the new minister a little more credit and a chance!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u52	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Simeonov, first of all, I begin by saying that you twice take the floor and twice talk about nonsense, stupidity and all sorts of other things that are not worthy of this debate. Secondly, I would like to point out to you that you have completely misunderstood the institution in which you are located and which elects the members of the Council of Ministers. It doesn't matter what the coalition partners agreed, what they were thinking or what they were thinking. Here parliament, the National Assembly says: this can be a minister, this can not be, and explains why. This is the idea of parliamentaryism and our higher institution. And if you're saying it doesn't matter who's the minister and who isn't, then why are these people sitting here? Why don't we switch it with some of the others? Why don't you pick someone at random and say, "Here, it doesn't matter who it is." Of course it matters who it is. I'd like to make you a line for something else. In this room, no one has a monopoly on patriotism. Just because you put it in the title of the coalition or the party or something doesn't mean you're a bigger patriot than me or them or anyone else here or the people outside. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are all Bulgarians and work for Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Having different views on how to work does not make us less or more Bulgarians. I want to tell you, because you say you're changing reality, you're really changing reality. Unfortunately, in our opinion, not for good, because of the sector we are talking about, we are talking to the people in which a million and a half people live below the poverty line, the people in which a huge part looks at the Social Ministry as the only source of hope, and it does not matter who heads this ministry, and it does not matter what the policy is in it. I will personally vote against Minister Sacheva for no other...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u53	Time, Mr. Zarkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u54	...and for the simple reason that this Ministry has no idea what should happen tomorrow. Next item, Madam President, you will have to vote on the State Security Act, and there you will see that whatever you are talking about, it is just another pawn move. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? Mr. Mirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u56	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, here we are talking about the election of the protege of Ivan Kostov, who had launched a so-called gender survey about the behavior of nine-year-old children in Bulgarian schools, which led to a scandal. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] A survey funded by a non-governmental organization called "Gender Education, Research and Technology." This is happening in January 2018. We are talking about a candidate for a minister who denies Ottoman slavery and talks about an Ottoman presence, which draws passages from Bulgarian history, who found a way to bring refugees into Bulgaria by bypassing the guards along the Bulgarian border. This is a minister of ideologies, denied by the Constitutional Court, we are talking about the Istanbul Convention, and this is a minister who denies the Bulgarian one. The fact that you're using the word "patriots" from your lips that you're calling for a patriot is only insulting patriotism. Because you're no patriot, and Botev said so. You, under your patriotism, are ready to sell everything Bulgarian, and this will prove it by voting and supporting this candidate for minister. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. I can't see a third line. Hole, Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! According to Mr. Zarkov's lines, there is still some misunderstanding that it doesn't matter who he is or what he is. The only thing I stressed is that this minister is implementing the government's program, and if he doesn't do it, he will be replaced. The program is in front of you, you can meet it and look for any underwater stones you take out here for no reason. I know Mrs. Sacheva as a person of character, with very good knowledge in the field she is responsible for and with her consistency. These are qualities that I think are positive. The only thing I've appealed to all of you is to give Mrs. Sacheva the opportunity to start and work as a minister, and in 100 days, if you'd like, give me one more analysis. Otherwise, this hysteria is inexplicable, purely political. There aren't even any figures behind this hysteria, there's no personality. In fact, you are not protesting against Mrs. Sacheva, but in general. That's what I don't approve of in this case. Whether I'm a bigger patriot than others or not, this is a matter we can discuss in private. I'm just going to ask you: what of your personal resources have you given for Bulgaria, for anything? A penny?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can tell you, though... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, I can give you, I can give you examples...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u59	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u60	...of personal sponsorship, of consistent behavior for decades at the same time while your party was wandering between internationalism, liberalism and I don't know what else. I can remind you of the different stages of the development of the BCP and the BSP, including the Macedonian nation in the territory of Bulgaria, which the predecessors of your party have been passing, so on this issue so much. Give the person the opportunity to realize, then you can again want and resign, and analysis, and review his behavior. As for Mr. Mirchev, about the protégé of Ivan Kostov not to mention, because the colleagues correctly called, Mrs. Cornelia Ninova can also be designated. [[Private applause from GERB.]] I couldn't figure out what you were talking about bypassing the fence, and how is it related to Mrs. Sacheva?! I couldn't figure out what you were talking about promoting migration?! I just don't know what information or how. And yet in the end strong words, insulting words, I will not comment on them, it is humiliating. I would never blame you for selling Bulgaria. I don't think you have any reason to talk about any sale by a man who hasn't done so much harm to the state and hasn't benefited. If you have facts, come out and say them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u61	The weather, Mr. Simeonov. Thank you. Mr. Sirakov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the press, ladies and gentlemen of the press, ladies and gentlemen of the press! We've obviously spent the last hour warming up for the budget debate. Of course, it is an extremely responsible choice of who will be a minister, especially a portfolio such as the social portfolio. But I think that during this hour we have expanded the rounds of debate and touched on topics that will find their discussion in the coming days. Firstly, as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, I would like to express my gratitude and respect for the work Minister Petkov has put into it so far. Indeed, an outstanding professional and expert. I have had the opportunity to be part of the process we have been through until the adoption of the three laws, which have been extremely important for disabled people, for disabled children and their families, the negotiations he has been conducting in recent months in connection with the supplementary pension, and a number of other cases that I will not stop at right now. I think Mr. Petkov has done enough, which I personally thank him for. At the same time, we can see that several different topics have opened up, which are part of the policies being pursued by the Social Ministry. Unfortunately, these topics are solved emotionally and are expressed emotionally on the street. That's what I personally don't like. When we talk about a minister as a position, as a position, he really must combine, apart from expertise, and the possibility of being able to hear the voices on the street, the different opinions and explain the policies that the government intends to implement so that they are the best intersection between people's wishes and the implementation of the government's Programme. In this case, I believe that we are in a new situation and we need a minister to work with a team, having the opportunity, firstly, to hear well enough, to be able to make decisions soberly and to be in constant dialogue and communication with all those affected countries that are currently emotionally expressing their problems. When the mind is blinded by emotion, it very often accepts the coiled rope on the ground as a snake, and vice versa, we often fail to appreciate the risk, and some snakes simply accept them as coiled ropes. Therefore, we need to be extremely emotionally stable, have a stable mind and have good communication between stakeholders. I personally believe that Mrs. Sacheva could cope with this challenge in the new situation, and I do not in any way denigrate what has been done so far, but, on the contrary, I consider it to be an upgrade with other skills. Not better, not worse, but other skills in the situation we are in now, because if I recall, we had a problem that was emotionally stated on the street until the three laws were passed. After the three laws were passed, no one said anything about the Social Services Act. Then the emotional problem shifted to the strategy for the child. When the Strategy for the Child withdrew, this same emotional problem was transferred to the Social Services Act, which no one said had any problems. We are currently trying to transfer an emotional problem to this room to a man who has not yet taken office and we do not know what he will do. So I will personally give my trust, I suppose, that much of this House will give Mrs. Sacheva their trust and we will support her in what is to come. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u63	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u64	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, honourable Members! Although a specialist as Dr. Ademov, chairman of the Parliament board, the Ministry's portfolio, whose owner is changing today, said everything on the topic that we would like to say from our parliamentary group, I take the floor to distract from this tribune of things about the debate today. I'm not gonna say who said them because it doesn't make any sense. The BSP colleagues have already spoken on this topic. The debate on changing ministers is like the debate on election and overthrow of the cabinet to tell those who are not at all in class and cannot get into class. The debate is political, above all is the political debate on the replacement of ministers, and it is not just about personalities, not even personalities. It is about politics, it is about a programme, it is about reforms, it is about accumulated problems in the sector concerned. This is the debate. He has been in the Bulgarian Parliament for 30 years, he has been in all parliaments, so I hope he will continue to be if we reduce the misunderstandings in this Parliament. [[Heckling]] Because when, if not on this subject, should policies be discussed?! And what do we have here, and why do all our colleagues insist on discussing politics in this sector? Does it strike you that in this term most of all are protests on different topics in this sector? It does, but you're not telling me. Why? Why are there so many problems there? It's not that there's no problem in other sectors. Firstly, because it is most socially sensitive, along with healthcare and education, secondly, because there is no focus on reforms, honourable Members. There's no focus! Reforms are on the principle: there is a protest we accept when it becomes inevitable, and we do something. The reforms are like....there is..there is no one game, street. And he had to have a clear idea of what to do; what to do with children with disabilities - mothers, what to do with hospitals, what to do with... There are so many things, there is no point in me professionally listing them, all the more so that I am speaking more politically about the debate about what it should be, and why it is political. We choose a person here, says the man before that, and you now, what? Well, give her a chance at this person. Well, let's say two three words why we have to choose another person. Why do you have to? [[The National Representative Valeri Simeonov enters the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u65	This isn't a coffee shop!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u66	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u67	He's coming in with coffee and water! This isn't a coffee shop! [[Noise in the hall, speech exchange.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u68	Stay calm, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Tsonev, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u69	Thank you, Madam President. However, I think that the issue is important for the Bulgarian society and should therefore be very important for Parliament, so we also protested from our parliamentary group, Madam President, according to the procedure. Now do you understand why this point can't be an emergency point in an emergency meeting? It's extremely important. It affects the social fabric of the Bulgarian society, affects the political fabric of this parliament. Do we have the clear awareness that this debate should be held? Do the governors have the awareness that when changing ministers in two of the sectors with the highest turnover there the problems are accumulated, it is good to hear the opposition in these two sectors at least....................................................................................................... Or he'll become the little coalition partner here and he'll tell us not to use the terminology we've heard from their mouths that it doesn't suit us to say such things. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are once again focusing on: what are the reforms? What will this sector look like at the end of the term, what will it look like after two mandates according to the vision of the government, according to the opposition's vision? What happened to ask for the replacement of this minister? There are, I'm sure. I'm sure the Prime Minister didn't ask for this resignation just like that. So, where besides here, is this place to hear and debate? On behalf of our parliamentary group, I ask you to be more serious about these policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause from DPS.]] - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u71	Madam President, ministers, ladies ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Mr. Simeonov, just to say that for such a line for Ivan Kostov I condemned Boyko Borisov and I have a judgment. Please consider that I have never, for any reason, been there, near this person and in the UDF! Now get to the point. Dear colleagues, what happened from yesterday until today, since the cabinet shift was announced? First of all, yesterday there was a press release that today at 12:00 the new minister will accept. It's past 12:00. Change your press release. But that's a little detail for the big one. What does this arrogance of Borisov's cabinet show? That once again the government tells us to make it uncomfortable for you, but also for the Bulgarian citizens: Parliament is nothing. I decide, I appoint, I introduce at 12:00. It does not matter that there is no such item on the agenda of Parliament and that this minister has not yet been voted on. Systemically, in three governments in a row Mr. Borisov destroys the institutions in Bulgaria, humiliates parliament in a parliamentary republic. That's our first conclusion. Secondly, colleagues, have you read the decision on the change of ministers? Have you seen any motives? There's not a single word in here about why this is being done. The only words the Prime Minister said about the change are that no minister in the cabinet wants to work with Biser Petkov. Dear Mr. Donchev, more frightening than the high tone of politics is the silence in politics. Your group has been silent for an hour and a half, and so have you. Madam President, we want each of the ministers present to brief us on his motives why he cannot and does not want to work with Biser Petkov. [[Noise and lines from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I quote Mr. Borisov that these are the only motives. Please invite them one by one and say, to illuminate the National Assembly and society what is happening and why this change is needed? Our third conclusion. Dear colleagues, have you counted how many changes you have in the Council of Ministers since the beginning of this cabinet, can anyone from GERB say? I don't think so. Eighth! 19 ministers, eight. Almost half the office in three years has gone crazy. Eight changes. In the former there were motives for either corruption or for incompetence. What does that mean? Half the Council of Ministers has been replaced for three years due to suspicion of corruption or due to incompetence means one thing: the incompetence of this team, which causes instability in the state. You're replacing these ministers as handkerchiefs. Why, we're asking ourselves? Because that's how you try to unwind the tension, burn the fuses so it doesn't get to the first one. The first, however, is always responsible for the team he chooses and changes constantly when it gets hot in society to pull the ball over and calm the passions. It's not the footage. The problem is systemic, it is that whole systems are in collapse in Bulgaria. I ask you, honourable rulers: as Kiril Ananiev replaced Nikolai Petrov, what changed in health care for the better, except that in the last month they started closing hospitals? Health reform is gone, it is becoming more expensive to heal, health care is increasingly unavailable. What changed? It gets worse. What happened when Rosen Zhelyazkov replaced Mr. Moskovsky? The Tol system is in complete failure and you are constantly delaying it, and these days we have learned that in order to build a highway, you are digging the Vit River illegally. What happened when Mrs. Avramova replaced Mr. Nankov? Well, 320 thousand Bulgarians stayed on a water regime. What difference does it make when the control model is wrong when the systems fail? What do you decide with that? You think you're just blowing off another tension. And now for the new minister. You say the ruling coalition partners Patriots that she will implement the government's agenda. Then it is unnecessary to ask: will there be a recalculation of pensions? There will not be, because the government of Borisov is not in its program. Will the minimum pension of 300 leva be done as the Patriots want to protect it? No, you won't, because there's no such thing in the program. Will social assistance change? No, you won't. However, I ask you: does GERB's program say that you will introduce the unconstitutional gender ideology? No, right?! But she introduced her as Deputy Minister of Education. Does it say in GERB's program that you will replace the history of Bulgaria in the textbooks? No, it doesn't, but that's what happens at the Ministry of Education. Does the GERB program say that you will transfer some of the care for our children to NGOs for a fat pay? No, it doesn't! The Constitution says it's the state's concern. And your program didn't say it, but she did. Well, I'm asking you, which program is he running? It's a rhetorical question, you'll give it to yourself. For us, another personnel change does not solve a single problem for the systems that are in collapse. Cadre change is made only to finish the term crooked to the left. Cadre change is agony for the government, but worse it is uncertainty for the country, collapse of whole systems, agony of the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My line is to Mrs. Ninova. Since we have heard her criticism, I would like to ask her the following question: when in 2013 you were Chairman of the Social Committee, what suggestions did you make, and what did you actually leave a trail with after you were Chairman of the Social Commission? That's my first question. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My second question: because you talked about corruption and explanation, I want to ask you this question: when you were suspended in 2007, no one came out to explain why you were suspended for corruption. So, I think you're the one who's asking these questions today to the people we remember and know the story is incorrect. In 2007, Mr. Stanishev did not come to explain why he requested your removal for corruption and then we did not understand exactly what happened. One more question I have for you: because in today's day you have turned this resignation into a political campaign, as a social party somehow does not suit you, because during all these three mandates in which the political party GERB manages, with every passing day improves its social policy and today the citizens of Bulgaria have much greater social benefits, and the mothers don't want to list everything, as there are specialists here who can reflect this thing. In conclusion, I would like to say one more thing. The government of GERB party and Mr. Borisov strives with personnel who change, with the setting of new ministers, to improve their governance so that we can have a fourth term, Mrs. Ninova. So the refreshment and revival of the intensity of all these changes is extremely important. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I am graduating, Madam President, give me another 30 seconds to turn to the political party GERB [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And wish her birthday happy! Today we are doing 13 years of party rule and, I would like to say, [[Applause from GERB]] from this tribune so many years ago I was the first MP to announce a political party GERB, and I said we would rule. And not only four mandates, many more mandates, Mrs. Ninova, until you can create bridges, there will be dialogue. Modern policy is built on bridges and dialogue. Remember that! Personally, in your capacity, I respect you very much, but turning around and giving advice, provided that you have contributed nothing and you yourself have been removed, is at least wrong. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u75	I apologize for the overdue time, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second line, here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you are right that Parliament is choosing the ministers, but the Prime Minister is proposing them and this is written in the Constitution. I see nothing wrong with this because the Prime Minister is responsible for the executive power. The Deputy Prime Minister is here. The proposal is Mr. Borisov's and there is nothing strange about it. This is how changes are made in the government. About the personnel question. Two months ago, we voted here at least 30, 40 changes to the committees that were made by you. We supported them because you are responsible for your footage. What changed the work of the Committee on Civil Society when Mr. Kutev is no longer in charge, but Mr. Gokov? I can ask you. Maybe she started working a lot better?! But at least I haven't noticed any big change, because Mr. Gokov is probably also implementing BSP's program. That's what Mr. Simeonov just told you. It's the government's responsibility. Of course, you have the right to vote against it, as we have the right to vote for it, and we will. And there's nothing weird about that either. About the gender ideology. At a captivity of twelve hours, you argued whether to be Mrs. Yoncheva or Mr. Stanishev in terms of gender ideology because Mr. Stanishev was a supporter of gender ideology and Mrs. Yoncheva was an opponent. Finally, both of them went to the European Parliament and voted in the same way for the Istanbul Convention with abstention, but there it is not like in our Parliament there. So, when you so zealously defend one thesis or another, realize that you are not always consistent as a party. Yeah, you're consistent. [[turns to MP Cornelia Ninova]] in their relations on certain matters, but when some of your people go in different directions, you can't understand who's fighting for what.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u78	The weather, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u79	With us it is clear who is fighting for what we are fighting for Bulgaria to move forward. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u80	Thank you. Mrs. Damyanova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, once again today, from this tribune, we witness how you manipulate or try to manipulate Bulgarian citizens, and on extremely sensitive topics concerning education, children and other issues that you have also repeatedly taken into account. I would remind you that the GERB parliamentary group did not ask questions to Ms. Tsacheva as Minister for the Istanbul Convention and we did not collect signatures for the signing and ratification of this convention. Now on the subject of education, because you mentioned the curriculum. Mr. Ivanov asked you a few questions and I will ask you one question: do you know how to make and how to accept a curriculum on a particular subject? I will immediately answer that question, because I know that you will find it difficult, and colleagues who are in the sphere are on the back lines so that they can give you a hint. The curriculum, Mrs. Ninova, is made by teachers from higher schools, teachers, experts from the working groups. After that, this curriculum is published for public discussion... is published on the Ministry's website, is discussed again at discussions in the country with many teachers. In this sense, there is no way Mrs. Sacheva herself has changed some curriculum quietly, in the dark, without taking the attention of the teachers in the process and they without participating in it. I don't know, Mrs. Nino, if you know, I'm sure someone has misled you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u83	To Mr. Lachezar Ivanov I will say the same thing to Mr. Simeonov: read these judgments was, colleagues, I also have such that I have not been fired for corruption. I will give it to you personally to stop repeating these mantras constantly. I have a court decision that I didn't commit any crime and I'm innocent of that case. [[noise and lines]] So that's why I'm closing the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u84	That's what Stanishev said when he fired you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u85	As far as the serious question is concerned, however, what have we done as governors as well as I as Chairman of the Social Committee. It's a very short memory! I don't remember if you were in that parliament. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria: "Was! "]] , but: in a very short time we increased the minimum wage; the number of families receiving energy aid; the compensation for raising a child between one and two years; the funds for students from first grade and upward [[speaking indistinctly]] ; benefit funds for mothers' children; unemployment benefits; and I can continue. That's what we did! We have frozen the internship and retirement age back to your policy, where now young people cannot retire and so on, but I will not continue. I'm just telling you, we did our job the way we understood it. Not only did you not collect signatures for the Istanbul Convention, you simply accepted it in the Council of Ministers. [[Reply from GERB: "You collected them. "]] There is a decision by the Council of Ministers that you accepted it and submitted it to parliament. This is not a clear enough act that the government of Borisov adopted the Istanbul Convention? And when you saw the public response, that's when you withdrew it. I didn't say the programs were made in the dark. I said that the content of Bulgarian history was replaced in the textbooks. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Instead of explaining to me the procedure, how this happened with public discussion and so on, go to those parents who protest, go to those school principals who you very well know came here and provided us with the gender polls in the schools, provided us with the textbooks in which Bulgarian classics, authors, big names drop out. Tell these people! And understand the dispute in this room is not just between you and us. It's a response to public relations, it must be an answer to those people outside watching us here. Now tell those people who are protesting what you're telling me here to see how they understand you and whether they understand you!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u86	Who brought these people?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u87	Nobody brought them! Go and tell them that someone brought them and organized them! People, stop insulting the intelligent Bulgarian people. If someone's against the government, then someone brought them?! If someone has a different opinion, they have to go to jail?! But this moving, complete dictatorship in the country has come to us so far. No one has the right to protest because someone had organized it. You take people's right to express their opinions freely. As long as we're not afraid here, they're afraid of it! Just stop smashing them. Let them be free and express an opinion other than your opinion, especially during elections, because Bulgaria's big problem is the honesty of elections, if the elections were fair, it would not be this political configuration in this Parliament. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. I give the floor to Mr. Vesselinoff. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u89	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! It is difficult to speak after such apocalyptic rhetoric, and the ghost of this apocalyptic thinking is a bad thing when playing in this room. Speaking of destroying institutions, in fact everyone should look at themselves and think through their political behaviour whether or not it contributes to this. Since the beginning of the term, we have listened to the same record, no matter what question it is put on. In this case, only the point of reference of Bulgaria is lost, disappears....................... and so on. The same is said, no matter what it is about in this Chamber. I think it's a pretty simple question, let's say. It is about replacing a member of the Council of Ministers after resigning from his predecessor. Everyone has the right to ask questions and to seek answers about the reasons for this resignation. I suppose the journalists outside this room will do their job better than the colleagues here to play investigative journalists. With regard to the position of the group of the United patriots, which has been repeatedly involved in the speeches, I can say that it is absolutely conscious and taken after verification of certain circumstances and facts, and after meeting the candidate for a minister, which has been faced with the main problems that interest us, which I think most of them also excite the Bulgarian society. These questions were raised perhaps without this pathos, which is being played out when it comes to the House, but in any case sufficiently responsible and uncompromising enough, let us say it. The fact is that in the social system there are accumulated tensions and these tensions continue to smolder for over a year. Solving some problems does not lead to solving all problems as a whole. Perhaps the main problem in this regard is the lack of active dialogue with civil society and the clear sense of direction for the purpose of the policies that are being proposed. Undoubtedly, at the moment a major problem is the Social Services Act, which creates ambiguities. These ambiguities can lead to interpretations, and, God forbid, to practices that are against Bulgarian family traditions, against the values that we all confess. In this regard, we, the United Patriarchs, keep expressing our concern. I must say that Mrs. Sacheva has listened to our concerns. Our view is that the entry into force of this law must be postponed. This debate must happen with the opposers of the Law, it must be clarified the texts and, after all, this law, before it begins to function, must be repaired. I suppose it is a matter of days to submit proposals to postpone the entry into force of the Law, and in this respect we will also rely on the support of colleagues from all other parliamentary groups, especially colleagues from GERB. In this regard, I think we had an understanding with the future minister because there is no doubt that she will be elected. [[Noise and lines.]] Unfortunately, another extremely important topic is this confused pyramid of social assistance, which leads to ethnic privileges, to the privileges of marginalization and to future social risks for our society. The concept against gypsy must be accepted. That is what I say, and I believe that in this regard, perhaps in the coming months, the real debate will begin. Although we need to note that we have the first positive steps in this respect with the support of colleagues from GERB, I must make it clear in the Social Assistance Act and in order of other laws, where we have reduced the intensity of support or in general remove it when there is a school failure and a number of other cases, an example of lack of socialization, lack of participation in employment programmes, education and literacy programmes and so on. We don't need solutions per piece. We need an overall policy change because this policy gives birth to marginality, gives birth to gypsy, and this gypsy is dangerous to the state. The law on elderly people and above all the care for elderly people is the third pillar on which we insist in the policy of the Ministry that there are serious changes and hearing of our ones. We also hope that dialogue will be useful in this direction, not for us as the United Patriarchs, but for all those Bulgarian citizens who rely on a more adequate state policy. Here, once again, the gum for the Istanbul Convention, which, I would like to point out, has been exposed by us - the Patriots of IMRO, and many political forces have joined this battle, and it has already been brought to a successful conclusion. I cannot imagine, and I cannot explain in any other way, except as political illiteracy, the attempt to predict that someone will change the decision of the Constitutional Court or will insist, despite this decision, that the Istanbul Convention be adopted, no, categorically we, the Patriots in this Chamber, are a guarantee that this thing will not happen. There is talk in pictures on the topic "Study content in the history books". Let me remind you that just over a year ago, thanks to our initiative, our colleagues in the Committee on Education have been created working groups that are clearing, unfortunately, the ten-year-old sorosoid ideology with which the textbooks are clogged. I think that the Ottoman presence has already overcome a problem, at least in the new textbooks and study programs, and if there are any similar dogmas left somewhere that have been confessed to precisely by these gender circles, we should keep cleaning them. And for the gender ideology, excuse me, but now, after all, the main, the flagship of gender ideology, is European social democracy. The mother party, as the European Socialists say, is the one who, in and out of the way, drives this ideology. Unfortunately, this is not just their territory, there are too many infected by this type of behavior, but, colleagues, let us all oppose this ideology together. It is not about making more fireworks, but about protecting what really is valuable to family Christian values. In this regard, I think that there should be no less anti-gender MPs, we should all stand in the positions of Bulgarianity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u91	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! Mr. Veselinov, I have two questions for you. One is: is it right, since we are a state of separation of powers, the chief of executive power, in the face of the Prime Minister, to appoint his team? That's my first question. The second question: is it right, since we are a parliamentary republic, look at constitutional obligations, that we, when we are not satisfied with a minister or the whole government, ask for a vote of no confidence? I'm asking you purely rhetorical questions. Since at the moment this Istanbul Convention is being chewed like gum and it is amazing to me why we mention it, given that we are voting Minister of Social Policy, I will tell you that there should be no debate in this direction at all, as it is already in the nothingness, it is already dust. The Constitutional Court categorically rejected it. Just to remind you that the first to declare against this gender ideology, the so-called Istanbul Convention, was Georgi Markov from GERB, was Slavcho Atanasov from the United Patriarchs. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Take and read the interviews, folks. The third was Angel Dzhambazki of the European Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] At the same time, under the influence of Mr. Simeonov in the Council of Ministers convinced half of the ministers to change their minds on the issue of the Istanbul Convention and this is a fact. So much for the Istanbul Convention. Stop talking about her because she's in the nothingness. You are talking about something that no longer exists in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Second line? [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Mr. Simeonov, you don't have time. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u93	Undoubtedly, Mr. Atanasov, the Prime Minister's right to propose changes to his team. That's what he does. The debate that has taken place is why I said that too bleak, too comprehensive are the faucets of this debate is as a vote of mistrust for the government's overall policy. Of course, the opposition has the right to submit such a vote, and we will hear about what we have heard now, although the subject is different. With regard to the Istanbul Convention. Yes, there is no one who can argue that the United Patriarchs started this explanatory campaign. BSP has joined them, which we are grateful for, other political forces have joined them, but we are the ones who... [[Noise and lines.]] To recall the statement, if you will, of Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov in the Chamber of the Council of Ministers. I think six of the ministers then abstained from adopting this convention, but it is a done deal. Following the Constitutional Court's decision, not only the European Parliament but also the Pope of Rome cannot oblige us to change our attitude towards this convention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u95	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen Ministers! Madam President, as the candidate minister, Mrs. Sacheva, is here in the Chamber, please invite her here to come to this stand to answer the questions we have also asked from the parliamentary group, as well as a few more questions. She claimed in 2013 the following: "GERB rules with fear and repression. The directors of municipal state companies are forced to become members of GERB in order to keep their jobs. Companies have been squashed and racketed like never before. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The so-called support for GERB is based on fear of repression. There was a picture of Boyko Borisov in a man's office, and he told me...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u96	Mr. Popov, this is not a procedure. You're inviting. Perhaps you should take a statement to ask Mrs. Sacheva questions. [[National Representative Philip Popov spoke with microphones off.]] That's a statement. Write it down, statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u97	There was a picture of Boyko Borisov in a man's office, and he said to me: "I will help. I'm helping you with everything I can do. I asked, in this case, the Prime Minister. For camouflage to leave me alone. An old man said to me, "I don't want to lose my son, my daughter is an immigrant now. Dear Mrs. Sacheva, do you still hold on to those words, and if not, why the metamorphosis? Dear Mr. Donchev, how will you talk to Mrs. Sacheva as future minister? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u98	Thank you, Mr. Popov. To inform the Chamber that long before Mr. Popov requested this procedure, Mrs. Sacheva asked to make a speech and answer all questions. Let us continue with the speeches so that all questions can be gathered and then I will give the floor to Mrs. Sacheva. Here you are, Mr. Donchev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u99	Honourable President, Vice Prime Minister, Ministers, Ministers! Dear colleagues, I am expressing the position of the Volya on the occasion of the nomination of Ms. Denitsa Sacheva as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We will not support this application. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u100	Quiet, please! Wait, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u101	Our decision is the result of our consistent, responsible position on the attempts to impose gender ideology in Bulgarian schools by well-funded NGOs and key government officials. A year ago we raised the issue of the signed order from the Deputy Minister of Education Sacheva to the schools in Stara Zagora district. In this order, instruction was dropped to conduct a survey among the students in which they were to determine whether they were boys or girls. In response to a parliamentary inquiry, we were explained that this was an initiative of NGOs and almost the Ministry played only the role of a mailbox without being responsible for what insane surveys and what ideologies they were passing among the Bulgarian children. We believe that similar polls have been distributed in other areas of the country. VOLLA has always been against the Istanbul Convention, for the preservation of family and family values. WALK is against the forced imposition of the already failed liberal ideas. We believe that Ms. Sacheva has shown with her work so far that she supports this policy and there is no way to vote for it. I will continue my speech by saying that I do not fully agree with Mrs Ninova's statement on social tensions and that the change of one minister in social policy with another will be an outlet. Personally, I do not feel much tension directed at the current Minister of Social Policy. The denomination of the post of Deputy Minister of Ms. Sacheva from her position as Deputy Minister of Education, I fully support, but I do not think that we should raise her higher, appointing her to the post of Minister of Education, even more Minister of Social Services with her views and ideas that we are witnessing. I also did not see any motives in her position of appointment. Since we do not see motives, the question arises for me: why is this change taking place? Binding this change to the Law that we expect to enter into force, namely the Social Services Act of 1 January 2020, I have serious concerns that a sufficiently socially oriented minister is changing with enough antisocially oriented minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Colleagues, I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I give the floor to Mrs. Sacheva. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u103	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, ministers and ministers! Thank you, first of all, for the trust and thanks to the people who supported me today. Of course, I also thank you for the criticism I received. They are also valuable and useful to me. I am very well aware of the scale, responsibility and difficulties associated with social policy. As has already been mentioned in the speeches of the MPs, this is a complex policy which includes and must commit knowledge both in the field of health and in the field of education and in the field of finance. In a significant part of these sectors, I have personal experience - practical, management and administrative. So I think that in this respect I could be really useful in seeking balanced solutions. Although the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is often referred to as the Social Ministry, this is the ministry that deals with both the labour market and industrial relations, which also have a direct link with the Ministry of Education. So, both so far and in the future, the relationship between the two ministries must be sought both in terms of bringing the children back to school and in terms of the personnel who need to find their realization in the labour market. As for the policies that I will carry out, because being a minister of labour and social policy means being part of the executive power, and the executive is therefore implementing, it is clear that the management priorities of this coalition government are already scheduled, are clear and are a fact in the Management Programme, so there should be no surprises in this regard. I will respond specifically to the criticisms I have received and to the large-scale disinformation campaign, which, I admit, surprised me that it is organised in my unit. I'm surprised at the in-depth knowledge of my biography, but, of course, the information we have here is mainly collected on Internet search engines. The poll mentioned so widely is a poll that was introduced five years before I was Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The poll was introduced during the time of a BSP minister who was also a candidate for mayor. In fact, the truth is that the GERB government canceled this poll while this poll was introduced during the time of Professor Anelia Klisarova. Since you are using Internet search engines, I suggest that you now take your mobile phones, write a "Sexual education" and write a "Sexual education," and then you will see the name of another candidate for mayor, supported by the Bulgarian Socialist Party. So please don't mention what hasn't happened to people who had nothing to do with it. Jender ideology has not been introduced into the Bulgarian education, has not been supported by any member of the political team of the Ministry of Education and this is clearly stated. Because you asked me for definite answers, I firmly believe that sex is biologically determined. Because I would like to point out that besides the Deputy Minister of Education, I am also of science, right? So there's nothing to worry about in this area. With regard to the Istanbul Convention. It has already been decided by the Constitutional Court, so there is nothing to comment on. Again, the executive is implementing a decision. Of course, it is important to stress that I am against violence, especially violence against women and children, and I am about the traditional family between a man and a woman. If these are the answers you want to hear, I'm giving them today clearly and categorically. Regarding the interview you mentioned, and for which I am also impressed by your archive activity that you have developed. The interview is part of an election campaign in which I participated in 2013, refers to specific cases that arose during the election campaign and have no bearing on what is happening today. [[Laughter in "BSP for Bulgaria" and DPS.]] The very fact...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u104	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u105	The very fact that today I work together with the Political Party GERB means that I accept the policies that the party makes and conducts and means that everyone has the right to an opinion that can develop over time. If you deny the ability of a person to develop, I would not be surprised because you even deny the possibility of making a policy based on facts. So in this respect, I have no concerns. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u106	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u107	With regard to the Social Services Act, I guarantee that I will have a dialogue with all stakeholders, because social policy must unite and not divide. That is why I think it is important to listen to all points of view, to take into account people's concerns, but at the same time I take the opportunity, as today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, to note that I will not give up on what has already been achieved in terms of services and commitments made to people with disabilities. So in conclusion, I can say that the words that characterize me are: dialogue, balance and well-meaning, and I can promise that. Of course, false news, let's challenge them with facts. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u108	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sacheva. Colleagues, we're voting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I will present to your attention: Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 May 2017, decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017, decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018, decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018, decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 December 2018, decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 5 April 2019 and decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 15 May 2019. HAS DECIDED 1. He released Bisser Hristov Petkov as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. 2. He elected Denitsa Evgenyeva Sacheva-Atanasova as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Please, voting mode. Vote 223 MPs: 114, against 106, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Negative vote by group. First negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov, second vote, Mr. Yankov, third vote, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you go. Colleagues, wait, Minister Sacheva will take an oath after the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u109	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because today, on 3 December, the International Day of People with Disabilities, I expected a discussion to be held here in the Chamber to find out if the old minister has failed in his social policies, including for people with disabilities, and how the new minister will do it. But we didn't understand that thing! We didn't understand because this dialogue here didn't take place. There was no dialogue on what happened in the field of social policy. And because we are accused here that we are politicizing things, I will read you one more reason why I voted against the Council of Ministers, and it is expressed by Mrs Vera Ivanova of the System killing us, which, when she found out that shifts will be made in the Council of Ministers, said: "This is a hit on children with disabilities. Yes, colleagues, today, on December 3rd "The International Day of People with Disabilities, you gave them this gift. And it also went on: "We do not accept the motive that something has slowed down, on the contrary, the delay is from ten years ago. " I remind you: from ten years ago you are ruling you and you will continue to rule in the same way and I very much hope that the mandate of your new minister will be very short! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u111	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Council of Ministers, Members of Parliament! I am voting against the proposed change in the Council of Ministers, as I voted against the first proposal of the cabinet Borisov, I am voting against the proposals of Boyko Borisov, I am voting against Boyko Borisov! I'm not surprised. The first change in the Council of Ministers, even in the construction of the cabinet 2009, is only seven months after the election of the Council of Ministers. Borisov changes ministers constantly, he has no team, there are people who listen. He has superiors and wants to be surrounded by people who listen to the chief. The reasons that were put into the public domain through the communication in the Council of Ministers are indicative: the prime minister's personnel decision based on a time-consuming basis. Is this the only ministry and this minister with the accumulated grounds Mr. Prime Minister Borisov? Rhetorical question. I heard during the debate that the change is to improve the government's work and that ministers change when they fail to implement the government's agenda. That is, you have admitted that the government's work needs improvement and that up to now, in your words, the government's programme has not been implemented. The Minister's shift is not enough, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority. Yes, it is clear to everyone that in the social sphere in the management of Borisov is gloomy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u112	Time, Mr. Yankoff!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u113	And it gets darker and darker. But do you know when the darkest night is? Just before dawn and I believe that there is a bright future for the Bulgarian people, but after the reign of Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u114	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Nedyalkov, please come in for a third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u115	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna be a little more emotional and hopefully not extreme. I would like to tell you that today with this debate, and also with the behavior of the future, of the already elected minister, it was once again proven that the anniversary of the transformation of GERB is more important than the International Day of People with Disabilities. And she forgot, and you forgot. As they once said, today was another day when progressive forces defeated common sense and this happened today. Pressed by the circumstances, the government could not make another decision. How much or how the tension will be dropped is a question of the future, but the future is such that each of the members of the Council of Ministers, who are on the right of you, on the left of me, can have such a fate. That's the sad thing about today's debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u116	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Colleagues, please stand up. Mrs. Sacheva, please take an oath, repeat after me. [[All MPs become.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u117	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]] Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u118	You can take your place with the ministers now. Thank you, dear ministers. Colleagues, take your seats. We continue with the second item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2020 The Council of Ministers was introduced on 31 October 2019. It was adopted on the first vote on 12 November 2019. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u119	Honourable President, I ask for a procedure of admission under point one in this Chamber to allow Mrs. Zheny Nacheva to be admitted to the House to the Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u120	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. Invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u121	Report on the Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020, No 902-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2019. The contribution to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020 is to be made in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u122	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u123	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Several times in the Chamber have already sounded the views which I consider serious and responsible that, in principle, the discussions in the Bulgarian Parliament, especially with regard to the Budget and Budget Laws, which are the most important instruments for the management of the state in the next calendar year, are one of the brightest political debates. So we must point out in this debate our attitude to the instrument offered by the Council of Ministers, respectively the Minister of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund for managing more than 90% of the public health resources next year. In this regard, I would like to address you, Minister, and ask you: after...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u124	The one on the title?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u125	Yeah, by the title, and I'll finally tell you why on it. After two years ago you appeared before us and quite frankly stated that the system is not functioning normally.. I want to quote you precisely, it was that the system is sick, and in these two years, Mr. Minister, every next budget that we adopt with the National Health Insurance Fund Act, there is no significant change in my structure.. I do not want to go into the details, I will go into the details, and my colleagues too, and certainly colleagues from other political forces, when considering the points of the budget. There is no significant change in the structure of this budget! Since one of your colleagues here has allowed himself, in my opinion, completely inappropriately to say that there should not be a loud voice, because, you see, who speaks loudly, there is nothing to say, I will be forced to whisper to you that this policy, which is being conducted by the Council of Ministers in the field of health, has not been approved in general, drasticly by the European Commission report, which came out just a few days ago. In this sense, rather the title of this law, I would not allow myself to suggest it, but in practice it could sound like this: a law for copying the costs of the National Health Insurance Fund and pouring new funds without changing the philosophy of health management in the Republic of Bulgaria! Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u126	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov, this isn't an editorial amendment, is it just a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u127	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u128	Thank you. Colleagues, lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 74 against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u129	Art. 1. (1) Accepts the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund (HIF) for 2020 by revenue and transfers "all" at total amount 4 744 704,9 thousand. BGN as follows: according to table. (2) It shall adopt the budget of the NHIF for 2020 on expenditures and transfers at a total amount of 4 744,704,9 thousand. BGN as follows: according to table. (3) It shall adopt the budget of the NHIF for 2020 with a balanced budget balance. There is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye, Nigiar Jaffer and Dzhevdet Chakarov: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.1 Health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care the number 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.2 Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) monitoring) the number 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.4 Health insurance payments for medical and diagnostic activity the number 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, row 1.3 reserve, including for unforeseen and urgent expenses, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments and additions shall be made to the table: - on line I. "Accounts and transfers" is replaced by "Access and Transfers" by "Access and Transfers" and "Access" is replaced by "Access and Transfers" by "Access" and "Access" is replaced by "Access and Transfers" and "Access" is replaced by "Accession" and "Access" is - in row 1 "Healthy incomes', the number..4 640 - in row 1.1 "Health contributions', the number "s3 107 134,2' is replaced by "s3 321 734,2'. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - in line II. The number of the amount of the financial contribution referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial - on line I. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - in row 1.1 - in row 1.1.3, the number of the health claims is replaced by 4 453 976,8 is replaced by 4 668 576,8 is replaced by 4 668 576,8 is replaced by 4 668 576,8 is replaced by the following: - in row 1.1.3.1, health insurance payments for the primary outpatient medical care; - in row 1.1.3.2, health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ambulatory) surveillance) the number - in row 1.1.3.3, the number "179 800,0" is replaced by "189 800,0" is replaced by "189 800,0" is replaced by "189 800,0" - in row 1.1 "Health insurance payments for medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country ", for medicinal products for the treatment of malignancies and medicinal products for life-threatening bleedings and emergency operational and invasive interventions in patients with congenital coagulopathy, under the conditions of hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided: - after the word 'initiate', added 'initiated'; - the number..1 243 800,0.... 1 410 - in row 1.1.5.1 "In the case of medicinal products, medical devices and diet food for special medical purposes for home treatment in the territory of the country, the number - in row 1.1.3.5.1.1, including medicinal products appointed by a protocol for which the number Row 1.1.3.5.1.3 shall be created: "1.1.5.1.3 including medicines for children up to 14 years of age 130,000.0. In row 1.1.3.5.3, including for medicinal products listed for basic therapy of oncological and onco-hematic diseases, coagulopathy and other rare diseases of various characteristics. - the words "inborn and acquired" shall be placed before the word "coagulopathies." - the number - in row 1.1.3.6 the health insurance payments for medical devices applied in hospital medical care - in row 1.1.3.8 - the number of the social security systems is replaced by the number of the medical assistance provided in accordance with the rules for coordination of the social security systems. The Commission generally supports the proposal under para. 2, row 1.1.3.1 and row 1.1.3.2 and does not support it in the remainder. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1, as in para. 2: "1." In row 1.1.3.5.3, the words "by list' are deleted. 2. Row 1.3 shall be followed by rows 1.3.1, 1.3.2 and 1.3.3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u130	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Mihailov, then Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u131	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! There are too many questions that could be commented on in the so read points. My idea and desire is to address the problems that concern drug policy. Since you have come to me personally to ask me why we also propose an increase in funds in a system that is unreformed, I will answer you here in front of the entire Chamber: because, in general, Mr. Minister, the public funds that are being allocated to healthcare in Bulgaria are giving significantly to those who are being separated throughout the European Union. That was said yesterday by your manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, that it is one thing to say that money is given and another is to say that money is given. Now, specifically, to our proposals, they refer to this. 1.1.3, it's for.H.I.E.L.D. You very well remember how many times we discussed in the Health Commission the short reimbursement list of Bulgarian citizens, on which they can be compensated by the funds taken by the state to carry out their treatment. Our general proposal in this case and that is why we propose this figure of 130 million, it is included in this large figure that we have proposed that all Bulgarian children under the age of 14 be exempt from paying the medicines that apply to them in the outpatient aid, as it is assumed that in hospital aid they are paid by the state. This is not only a social proposal, but a proposal that also relates to the big demographic problem in Bulgaria and we very much insist that it be discussed in the Chamber, discussed and accepted by honourable Members from all parliamentary groups. Next, here I took the liberty to share with you, I shared with Dr. Daritkova, although she argues that this has not entered the Health Insurance Act, a technical, spelling error has been made. There are no oncohematological coagulopathys and they are not the essential ones, the essential ones are congenital and acquired coagulopathys. And even if this isn't somehow protected in the Health Insurance Act, maybe this thing is now in the process of checking, then going out of the acquired coagulopathy will put this group of patients. It is limited by enormous costs. You don't have to know this, but these are patients who are in critical condition and their expenses amount to millions. I got a call from the chairman of the coagulopathy patients' association and asked me to change this most hotly, and that's why we brought it in as a change in the text. Next, this is about, and I shared it with you, in point. 1.1.5.3 "Basic therapy, oncology, onco-hematological therapy" with the error made................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here our proposal for an increase, Minister, is that I shared with you at first reading in the three-stage committee, which was on Health, Finance and Social Committee. It is not possible for funds that are so different in volume, so different in importance to be combined into one group. The means for treating rare diseases are extremely financiers. We are committed to this cohort of patients - 75% of them are children, Mr. Minister, they do not live the adult period of their lives. So our request is: turn to them. We have made commitments under the Lisbon Treaty, from which five or ten years have passed, and this figure must be changed. In addition, our general proposal, which we told you in a private conversation, is that the means for treating rare diseases should return to the Ministry of Health. This is a socially significant direction in healthcare, as is tuberculosis, as is the syndrome of acquired immune deficiency, in this sense our proposals are motivated. Finally, as many more colleagues will be speaking on all these points, regarding the rules for coordination of social security systems, and there the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is reduced dramatically. All explanations that this has been done, see, in order to ensure the payments that have so far occurred to foreign health insurance institutions do not withstand criticism, as it is seen in the years that these payments are increasing. Now this reduction, this removal of this budget will lead to a tension that makes no sense to be taken over by the National Health Insurance Fund and to create continuous conflicts between the relatives of those patients who really need such treatment outside the country's territory and the institutions of the National Health Insurance Fund. So far, I'm going to stop and let my colleagues continue on the other issues at point 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u132	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! At the first reading of the National Health Insurance Fund Budget Act, we united around the opinion that more means should be allocated to prevention, screening, early diagnosis, because this is European practice because this is what modern health systems do, because it is too expensive to treat at a late stage diseases that cost a lot of money and have no significant effect. In this sense, you exceeded our expectations, I admit, because we proposed on t. 1.1.3.1. more funds for primary outpatient care.. We have offered to have five million more, and what you are proposing is to vote six million. However, I will try to argue our proposals relating to our proposal for more funds for specialized outpatient assistance, as well as for medical-diagnostic activities in outpatient assistance. Dear Minister, the tendency for Bulgarian patients to be able to enter hospitals much easier to treat, which increases the number of hospitalizations, and difficult to find directions and difficult to carry out their research in outpatient care. In this sense, we offer and will support all the efforts of your team and the ruling majority aimed at taking out activities in outpatient assistance, not for performing social function in hospitals. We believe that prevention has many activities of social and economic life, because the cleanliness of air, food, lifestyle, affect prevention in particular of socially significant diseases, but there are activities related to prevention, such as screening, which are directly within the reach of the Ministry of Health. In this sense, if there is not enough allocated funds under this Article concerning the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we will look for funds for screening then in the state budget. Bulgaria remains the only country in the European Union that does not have a national screening programme. More and more specialists insist on the National Cancer Programme. Here we hold weekly round tables, we promise national programs for everything, about diabetes, we have a relation to the rare diseases that Professor Mihailov spoke about just now because they are worth more and more expensive to society. That is why we believe that screening should be an emphasis in the ministry's work, and that is logical. In this sense, we thank you for giving a signal that you are focusing your attention in this direction, but there is much more to be done. We believe that there is a need for more resources, for example for specialists in outpatient care to overcome this problem with regulatory standards, and for patients to be able to do their research in outpatient care to avoid hospitalization. Those are our considerations. Thank you for your support and for the stated thesis that you support these efforts at first reading, and we expect more efforts from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jaffer. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u135	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! With one subparagraph, we are actually exhausting the entire numerical part of the budget for the Health Insurance Fund, and perhaps we should have done as in the other parts of this budget. GERB's parliamentary group has proposed to cover three years because, indeed, with the latest changes, we are actually making a budget that, in its main part, will concern the next three years and not just the next 2020. I want to motivate myself for some of our proposals. First of all, still in para. 1 We offer an increase of 214 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. Why? We believe that the collection of health insurance contributions and tax revenues are underestimated and there will in fact be more funds that are not reflected as an allocation. With this, I think that we also agree with the contributors of the budget from the Supervisory Board, and here is our difference with them. As early as § 1 of the Transitional provisions they propose those funds which are in plus, which are collected above those mentioned in para. 1, be distributed by a decision of the Supervisory Board. We believe that these funds must be distributed in this House, that is, they must be reflected in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund and become a law. Because this is money that the legislator said in the Health Insurance Act that should be included in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. By our calculations, again, it's 214 million. Six hundred thousand. BGN, the distribution of which we have reflected it in the next columns of the budget. I think you'll agree in your capacity as MPs. Secondly, something that is very important in light of the recent discussions in society. Dear colleagues, we are indebted to the children in Bulgaria. We suggest that children under the age of 14 who are in school are entitled to free medicine supply. The money that concerns this thing isn't much, and that's only 130 million. lv. At one budget of the Cashier, you know, about 4 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. and more money from the Ministry over 5 billion. lv. We must take the first step and show that we really take care of the children, the future of Bulgaria, to overcome the demographic crisis and, once again, money is not so much, but the step is important. It will show our attitude that we are really interested in children's problems, and those who are lucky to have children at this age know that lately the prices of children's medicines have started to increase for various reasons that are not here to discuss them, because we will take all the time. The simple cough syrup, antibiotics, vitamins, etc. [[Reply from GERB: "They are not paid by the Health Insurance Fund. "]] Our proposal, which I urge you to support, is to make free medicine for children up to 14 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u136	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Come in, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u137	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In view of the proposals made by us during the first reading, sharing fully what Dr. Jeffer said, and what Dr. Ademov said as our position, I would add that it is really good that we take into account what we did as a proposal for prevention and for hospital care. I will just add that in the United States of America recently it has been estimated that for every dollar that is staked in hospital care and prevention, hospital care is saved, stressed, 10 dollars, that is, the proportion is one in ten. Mr. Minister, you are a very good financier and we can make some estimates of what this could lead to and how many more funds can be redirected both to hospital care and to specialized hospital care. In this regard, however, we must be correct and say that everything we say has not happened in recent years and during your term, Mr. Minister, but has been accumulated. Although we are at second reading, Madam President, I will allow myself to say that a major majority must propose serious steps, as you Mr Minister, during the first reading you said, that serious legislative changes are envisaged in this year, with which to finally start and speed up this reform, because all politicians are obliged, and naturally the main responsibility is the government. In this regard, I can say that we have repeatedly pointed out from the DPS that we would have had an extremely constructive position in view of what must be realised in the health system and its functioning, with a view to having greater efficiency and better quality. This is a very important, sensitive sphere. Professor Mihailov, you say that there is an increase of 4.5% of gross domestic product, but really the costs that are being realised are around the average European Unfortunately, in our country there is the highest percentage of additional payment. This should not bother us, in this regard there is really something to think about and what needs to be improved. But what worries us is once again the proportion between hospital and hospital care. In the normal countries of the European Union, hospital care moves from 18 to 27%, and we are about 50%, and given the extremely high rate that is allocated to medicines, and it is about 30%, that is 50% for hospital care plus 30% for medicines and makes 80% of the current resource, which we are currently discussing and debating, for all other feathers, remains only 20%, and these proportions should indeed be improved. There's a lot to think about. Our position is constructive and we are aware of our responsibilities. In addition, you need to see the information system a number of things you are ready for, Mr. Minister, but you must have the support of all managers and in dialogue and consensus all these processes must be implemented, I repeat, with a view to improving the functioning of the healthcare system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Today we are putting to the vote the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Again, nearly half a billion for health for a third year already, that is, in three years the funds have increased by more than 50% of those built in 2017. At the same time, do I request the number of closed hospitals and the endangered district hospitals, should we even talk about quality and affordable health care, which has become like a simple phrase released from the National Assembly's stands? At the same time, an inadequate treatment of patients and even the death of children. Do we need to be told from Europe what is the state and level of healthcare in Bulgaria to remember that we need to take measures?! The latest report by the European Commission is devastating for Bulgaria: money heads that patients have to pay out of their pocket; additional money to give to their doctor in gratitude. They are found: the lowest life expectancy, low prevention, a strong risk of stroke, ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, extremely low prevention and a high proportion of preventable deaths. We, as opposition, have argued and commented on these findings for years. We have had countless debates in this House, but perhaps we and the European Commission have commented on some other country and some other health care. And as the Bulgarian people say: when you are my grandmother, who listens to me? The lack of reform and control of public spending are the main reason why we will not support this budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. A system that generates constant tension and divides the word, Satanized doctors cannot be supported. Do you know what people are saying on the streets: I hope I don't get sick in this country?! And do you know what doctors comment on when an accident happens that happened to this child: I hope it doesn't happen to me because there's no one to protect me?! With regard to the outpatient care point. Yeah, you kind of agree with our proposal. We offer six million more than your original offer. I am very interested to hear from you, Mr. Minister, what are you going to set aside these three million dollars from this budget for if you are going to get the general practitioners to make groups to provide emergency assistance, will you direct them to children's healthcare only? If at all the term of office of your government is under the motto of child health, point them there, but ask for control over the spending of these funds. What are you going to give more money to specialized help for more directions, more research, what are you going to give it to them for? Give the public an answer! These things are not spoken of by this tribune. So basically, I would like to say again that we are not going to support this unreformed budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Taskov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u141	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We are beginning to discuss, but first, we must not forget that this is the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and more precisely this is the money of the well-equipped Bulgarian citizens. In view of the report from a few days ago, which demonstrates mainly the large levels of additional payments in the sector and the large number of hospitalizations, any opportunity to correct precisely some of these feathers, I think it should be at least that I don't say admired, but when it is well-founded, why shouldn't it be accepted? I am referring to the following: our proposal on this point. 1.1.3.6. Health insurance payments for medical devices implemented in hospital medical care are of 110 million. lv. the amount to be 120 million. lv. I base myself on the simplest point of view that is the main burden. Medical supplies that are required in hospital care are the main burden on people, which falls as additional and extraordinary additional payments. This is something that can really be thought of, because usually, apart from planned surgical interventions, these are mainly traumatism, especially in traffic accidents, where the amounts then in neurosurgical manipulation are the greatest. It's nice that you put in extra titanium derivatives, nails and so on, but I think you still can, because there really is a resonant in that questioning. Secondly, when we talk about reducing the number of hospitalizations, I think that any increase in health insurance payments for specialized outpatient care is correct. Our proposal is to turn 270 out of 264. A proposal that really has the opportunity to remove some of the hospitalizations in the outpatient sector. Separately, my question is: does this mean increasing the number of directions or increasing mostly the price of the direction, because the strong demotiation for work in the hospitalized specialized medical care is precisely the price of the direction. You know very well that most of the doctors are cabinet tenants and more than half of their income at the cost of the direction does not really go to them. So we have the paradox for the medical examination to be about BGN 7 which is really not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Taskov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Popovski, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u143	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The group will support the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund not only from coalition culture, but also from seeing a good increase in absolute values and the main points at which payment is increased for next year. In summary, a few things. Of those over 400 million increases around 200 and over 200 will go to hospital care. Members of the opposition comment that indeed the percentage that goes there is very high, but I can boldly say that there are several years to increase the percentage again to reach the real values of the clinical pathways, which I openly wish to continue in the dialogue between the Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Union and to ever reach these levels of real values, especially in surgical clinical pathways. I say this, perhaps for the second or third time in the National Assembly stands, because there is the big problem. The big problem is that of super-hospitalization is done in internal wards because we took this specialty of internal diseases, five under specialities and one patient is coming out of endocrinology today, and after 30 days he is hospitalized in cardiology, in nephrology, in pulmonary science and everywhere else. This is the big problem and is one of the World Health Organization's signals that we are really overdoing the big problem of hospitalization that we have seen in recent years. The example is sufficiently clear in 2000, when the system started, in eight million Bulgaria has one million hospitalizations. Last year in seven million Bulgaria and in the past year there are about three million hospitalizations. I mean, at least half of them are unnecessary. From draining the Health Insurance Fund in this direction, you cannot actually value the prices of surgical clinical pathways, where no hospital in Bulgaria will write that colleagues have done a Caesarean section without the woman giving birth, or that they have removed the patient's appendix without it being operated. I mean, we know where the fraud is, but it's not the minister's fault, it's not us here, it's not the budget. The conversation continues at another level between the Medical Union and the National Health Insurance Fund. On these feathers, as we see them, the distribution is mainly done decently both in the hospitalized specialized medical care, both in the jeeps and in dental medicine, and in the medicines the amounts are increased as are the opportunities of this money, which we also collect from 8% health contribution. So listening to speculation about how it is in Germany... I'm just reminding you that in Germany, drugs are not paid, but the contribution is 15%. That is, if we decide to make a German model of health care, we should start there first........................................................................................ Of course he wouldn't agree. We are working on another model of organisation of health care and payment, so at the moment and the current amounts that we are distributing today with this vote, I think they are adequate and will give better health next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. First line, Mr. Mihailov, then Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u145	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues, honourable colleague Popovski! I deeply respect your position as a specialist in health care, I would like to say as a doctor, but let me tell you that the dispute here is not about how well the current budget is balanced according to our political power in terms of hospital and hospital care. Dr. Popovski, is it not clear to you that whatever we are talking about, we are now opposing the surgical pathways of the interior and other paths... The paths are an algorithm for work, Dr. Popovski. That is what the specialists in all areas of healthcare have told you: they are not payment algorithms. We've been sitting in a strange position for years now pouring money into a system that we don't know how much it costs, Dr. Popovski. These paths, however much we comment on how we will make greater control of the internal pathways, the endocrine pathways will not end the problem. The problem will be resolved when this model of financing of the health system is terminated, through clinical pathways and trading companies. Therefore, from the very constitution of the 44th National Assembly, BSP has stood firm against this model. We believe that this model is ineffective for Bulgaria. We don't need to talk about Germany. Tell me, except in Germany, where in Europe, where in the European Union is the payment structured through clinical pathways? It's paid for activities. Since you mentioned that there was no talking about surgical pathways, because a woman gave birth with a secio or not, don't you remember the discussion in the Health Commission about the number of secios as a percentage in Bulgaria in one or another hospitals [[the President signals that time has run out]] And how serious is this question?! Thus, this is the main issue of how the health system is financed. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u146	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Taskov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u147	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, dear colleague Popovski and as a surgeon! For the evaluation of clinical surgical pathways. In general, until both the doctor's work and the surgeon's and the team's work is valued, we are not talking. I support what Professor Mihailov said earlier. As we continue to comment on funding on clinical pathways, things are obtained in this way without full evaluation of the activity. We know very well that the clinical pathways have degenerated into lobbying, pressure and development of individual sectors, and we should not oppose the interns of surgical specialties, because we can also talk a lot about invasive manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u148	Thank you, Mr. Taskov. Next line? I won't. Mr. Popovski, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u149	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I think I was very well understood by setting this example. The rest of the examples we are giving really go beyond the budget agenda of the National Health Insurance Fund. If we switch to diagnostically related groups, as Professor Mihailov quoted just now, and move from diagnostic pathways to diagnostically related groups, this is a problem of another conversation that is not on the agenda today. For the prices of the trails I can specifically say that really in surgical pathways there is no way to miss the number, while at boarding school, you very well know what I said just now is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Mr. Ibrishimov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u151	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues, Mr Minister! The increase in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, or the public health resource, is over 400 million this year. lv. Over 400 million. lv. on the basis of an increase in income from health insurance and taxes. However, compared with other budgetary expenditure, this increase remains at the same levels of increases as in the years back. This reminds me that this increase will not affect the high levels of additional payments by Bulgarian patients. We all know to obtain a quality medical service, pay solid money from the pocket of the Bulgarian patient. Unfortunately, this service is not always quality. The cost of the NHIF budget is also a problem. Once again, over 50% of this increase goes to hospital care around 230 million. lv. All of us in this room and in the media talk that hospitals in Bulgaria are many, that money for hospitals is many, that more means are needed for prevention, for early diagnosis of diseases. We are all convinced that the sooner a disease is caught and money is put into prevention not to come to this disease, the cheaper it is for both the patient and the health system. Unfortunately, this year's hospital aid money, early diagnosis and prevention is too low compared to the money that is being allocated to hospital care. About 50% of the increase in our budget is in favor of hospitals compared to the developed health systems in Europe. Moreover, there is no indication that these funds, which will increase hospital revenues, will increase the salary income of medical professionals working in hospitals. What do we offer in the dental sector? As a dentist, I mean, yes, it's commendable, there's an increase in money for the sector. And this money is mostly for paying the prosthetics to the elderly, because with a judgment of the court the age limit fell to 69 years and needed more funds. The question here is: okay, but why did the court have to solve it again? Why didn't this thing come out here last year in this room? What do we suggest? Since this age group is over 65 years old, there is still slight discrimination because children and middle-aged people will not feel this increase. That's why we're offering another 10 million. lv. increase the money in dental aid sector to go for orthodontic devices for children. You know that more and more frequent are dental and maxillofacial deformities in children. Many parents take accurate care of them, take them early to a specialist, get diagnosed early, but often these families do not have money to pay for the treatment. Again on this principle, the earlier, the better and lighter for the pocket of both the Bulgarian patient and the health system in general. Since I've taken the floor, Mr. Minister, they should finally be paid to hospitals the overliminal means made in the years back. It's not true you can't. Everything is in our hands in your hands, in the supervision of the Health Insurance Fund. By decision of the supervision of the Health Insurance Fund, a proposal can be made to update the budget and in our hands it is in the hands of the Members of the National Assembly to solve this problem. It's the hospital's most expensive money because it's made money. It's money for which expenses have been made. Costs because they were not entitled and had no right to return a patient who was health-insured. Under the Constitution, they have no right to return it, and they treated it, they cost these patients. Therefore, please take these suggestions into account and support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u153	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, fellow Members of the National Assembly! The budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for the year 2020 is Who runs this huge financial resource? So far, and for 2020, the Council of Ministers, which is setting out health policies, has left modest powers to the Minister of Health to manage in person only 11.5% of the total financial resource of the function.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, this principle of governance is also maintained in budget 2020 and I think that next year we will often hear from the Minister of Health that some things do not depend on it. Secondly, the staff costs of the National Health Insurance Fund are worryingly maintained. Both in 2019 and in the 2020 budget, the number is the same. You'll say I was wrong. No! It's 45 million. 430,000. £900. Against the background of its award of new functions, which means additional burden, its staff to have a standstill in wages, a reduction in the competence of the Cashier. These and other things lead to bankruptcy of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thirdly, in terms of specialization and specialized outpatient medical care. Here we propose an increase in costs by 5 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which the Commission adopts. There are certain diseases, treatment and dispensation of which are carried out at home, such as mental illness. There is no doubt that more financial resources are needed in order for some of it to go and for better dispensary monitoring of patients with such diseases, something which is an extremely state policy. And here we as MPs do our job, but the problems arise later because we cannot, by decree, Mr. Minister, or by national framework contract of two mentally ill people, make three reviews of the year. Therefore, such redistribution of expenditure is necessary after the adoption of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, excluding any lobbying and based on the principles of professionalism and the needs of patients. Notice the needs of patients!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Slavova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u155	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am glad that between first and second reading you have been able to hear at least one of our suggestions. You have been able to agree that hospital care is something to be addressed because, as the European Commission said in its Report, which all colleagues have quoted, approximately one fifth of hospital procedures could be carried out within the framework of outpatient care, and one tenth of hospitalizations could be avoided completely if there is better outpatient care. Unfortunately, however, for the rest of our suggestions, you remain deaf. After these same statements leave specialists who are pediatricians and as anesthesiologists; after risking the work of the only emergency children's hospital in Bulgaria; after, Mr. Minister, not a new screening program for children with the current budget; after you refused to provide me with the technical examination report and with procedural kits even the conclusions you have provided me, I will open up in one clamp that we will come to the children's hospital and the decision of the court in the last few days; after you have given me this opportunity because you obviously do not wish to see this report widely public discussion; after recently civil and professional circles you have not given me the opportunity to open up for the procedure that you have opened to the children's hospital, and the decision of the court in the last days; after you have not financed and have offered me money for the medical nurses who are working in the gardens with it; after recently civil and professional environments have said to use everything that you have said to the Minister of Bgar's office. And because you always ask, "Where?" I will tell you: one part of the money can be found from there it is high time to stop this vicious practice the Ministry of Health, the only state structure, to pay a fee, such as a bank fee, to the National Revenue Agency. So you have a 5.5 million. lv. take this money.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Slavova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 183 MPs: 81, against 38, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 186 MPs: for 85, against 69, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 1 with the relevant changes supported by the Commission. Vote 181 MPs: 109, against 71, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u157	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Anastasova Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3, as in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "sixteen' shall be replaced by "sixteen', "sixteen' and "sixteen', and "sixteen' shall be replaced by "sixteen'. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Anastasova Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4 as in para. 1 in the text before t. 1 the words "sixteen' shall be replaced by "sixteen', "sixteen' and "sixteen', and "sixteen' shall be replaced by "sixteen'. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u158	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 2, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for art. 3 with the relevant changes supported by the Commission and the text of the importer for art. 4 with the relevant changes supported by the Commission. Vote 179 MPs: 104, against 63, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u159	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Anastasova Daritkova. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Alexander Koychev Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 5 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u160	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u161	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! We believe that the annulment of this article puts a category of medicines in a very special situation, and I am extremely surprised that the Commission has suddenly rejected this article completely, as it is about drugs for basic oncotherapy and oncohematologic therapy. It's about medication for other types of diseases. I would like to say to you, Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members, that if you look at the list of currently dropping medicines, this is because distributors are extremely dissatisfied with the way in which they are manipulated by the state their entry and their stay on the Bulgarian market. All these basic means of oncotherapy and oncohemological therapy are placed on the medical institutions to buy them under another regulation by means of the medical institutions. We have also adopted an amendment to the Law, which was not in the interest of the State, in our absolute opposition to this amendment in the Law........................................................................................... All of this will put more and more in a difficult state of health. It is possible, as so far, that you know very well what is the list of medicines that drop out every year from registration is to be transferred only to distributors and holders for authorisation of use this withdrawal is quite unprofessional and non-state. I therefore believe that this group of medicines should actually remain, as is the importer's proposal, and it is not supported by the Commission. We've put out our arguments and we want this to happen. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u162	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. A line and then a statement. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u163	Professor Mihailov, since I'm not medically educated, I'd like you to tell me what are these drugs you're pleading for? As far as I am reading the text of the importer, they will still be validated on a proposal from the Supervisory Board's manager, which this Supervisory Board will adopt, will make criteria. What are we pleading for?! In fact, we put a blank text in the hands of the NHIF Supervisory Board to make criteria based on these criteria to choose which medicines and then to make a list. Why didn't they do it here?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u164	Next line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mihailov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u165	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, it is not a sin to have no medical education, but it is wrong to stand in a position when you are not aware of the essence of the change that has been proposed. We are talking about a whole series of people to call them conditional, as we called them years ago, molecules that have long been introduced on the Bulgarian market. And with the conditions of price creation, these drugs come out explosively year after year of registration, coming out of the market. Conditions shall be created for their entry under other regulations of the Ministry by purchasing. I can tell you the conditions are being created, but this is not the place to attend the hall of honor. Note that individual antitumor preparations are sold in Bulgaria at fantastically high prices, precisely for this reason that they have dropped out of registration, that distributors have no interest. A certain type of distributors who have been authorised to bring these medicines into the market, sell them to both health institutions and to Bulgarian patients prices sure Bulgarian patients to go outside the territory of the country to buy them. Among them are basic antitumor therapy, such as vincristine. I do not want to mention many other molecules that have dropped out of registration from the Bulgarian market. All this is not a forward-looking drug policy. For this reason, I believe that this proposal has been tabled. I don't know what caused it to drop out. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. For your statement, Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u167	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I withdraw my proposal, in order to define more precisely the way in which the list of medicines will be defined, which will fall away from the mechanism that guarantees budgetary sustainability, because this is what is proposed in this text. This mechanism will be adopted in the Health Insurance Act and will concern the possibility of setting up some framework of the costs of medicinal products as a framework of hospital care costs. This article proposes that there should be an exception to this framework. What bothers me and why am I inclined to withdraw my offer? This list will be determined by criteria adopted by the Supervisory Board without knowing which medicines will be included in it. These are not medicines that are outside the Positive List, these are medicines that are included in it and for which we have been looking for a clear definition of the term It doesn't even appear in pharmacotherapeutic manuals! So determined, the text poses a risk of signing up and curtsing to certain pharmaceutical companies and we here the National Assembly, to sign an empty check for about 100 million of the Supervisory Board of the Casa. I believe our responsibility is precisely to hold on to transparent spending of the Cashier's funds. The mechanism, which implies validation by the National Health Insurance Fund of the criteria under which it will be implemented, is set out in the Health Insurance Act and, if there are any exceptions to it, they must be re-written in the special law. We here in the Budget Act for this year make only an exception for medicines that in the listed paragraph are a wide range of them in other graphs, i.e. medicines for oncology treatment, for medicines by protocols, for medicines for home treatment. Taking priority funding of certain medicines by decision of the Cashier Supervisory Board alone cannot, in my opinion, be admitted. That's why I think this term should be dropped. I also withdraw my proposal because this guarantees equality for all representatives of the pharmaceutical industry. We allow the Supervisory Board of the Cashier to behave properly and transparently with regard to the framework of the budget, which will be defined in the contracts of each pharmaceutical company.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. - What's the line? Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u169	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, you are telling half the truth in your speech. Yes, it's true for the moment, and I'm telling you, as an oncohematologist and an oncologist, that these drugs are on the Positive List, but putting them in those conditions that put the other two subgroups, there's a serious danger, and I'm telling you, from my many years of experience, that these drugs fall off the Positive List. I repeat, to load the patients, to load the medical facilities! Understand that! Many times in recent years there has been a discussion and Dr. Dechev knows it very well, and Mrs. Nacheva that our mechanism for forming prices in basic therapies, in socially significant diseases, tolerates very great criticism. He's not forward-looking! It pushes many distributors and many Marketing Authorisation Holders out of the market. Having this proposal, I have indeed agreed with you that you are aware that you can be pushed out of the Positive List not to be pushed out, they will leave the Positive List! This is the problem that is created by the removal of this subset of medicines and art. 5. This is a very serious problem because it loads the budget of medical institutions or loads personally the budget of one person who is suffering from one or another socially significant, not to mention rare diseases, and so on. That's the danger! We should not put everything in drug policy under one denominator, because that is how we decide. This is how it went with VAT here for hours you have convinced us how bad it is to reduce VAT on medicines, and it is reduced throughout Europe. We're the only country that tolerates all this for drugs. The same thing is happening now. Believe me, we're creating additional problems. This isn't about lobbying. It's about shortsightedness. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Second line? I can't see. Mrs. Daritkova, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov, the pricing mechanism is a completely different thing and it has nothing to do with the Health Insurance Act or the Budget Act. This is done through the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and there is determined what are the prices of medicines by comparing them with a certain number of countries in Europe. This is a reason to look for a mechanism that does not constantly reduce drug prices so that medicines that are threatened by leaving the market can be found another solution. The theme here in the Law is quite different here, because we introduce a requirement for all pharmaceutical representatives to still maintain and sign contracts for some framework of drug spending. Because you all claim that the costs of medicines in this budget are more of a percentage than those of medical activities. That is why, assuming some exception to this mechanism, we believe that this exception will be realised in an opaque way. Each pharmaceutical company has a large portfolio of medicines. I suppose it is possible to regulate the Cashier in such a way as to make flexible concessions so that within this portfolio of low-priced medicines, no restrictions are put on them and vice versa to compensate for the difference from those who are costly. I believe that there should be no exceptions to this mechanism because the list to be defined is not known and cannot be transparently defined on the basis of this definition. I believe that the discount mechanism should apply to everyone in the same way. And here it is already the responsibility of the Supervisory Board of the Cashier and its management to operationally introduce the mechanism in such a way as not to allow deficits of medicines for Bulgarian patients. [[Reply from the National Representative Nigyar Jaffer.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u172	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote as Mrs Daritkova withdrew her unsupported proposal. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 5. [[Noise and lines.]] She withdrew it, but now we're voting for the rejection of art. 5 in general. [[Noise and lines.]] Alexander Ivanov's proposal.. the rejection of art. 5. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Vote 172 MPs: 100 against 72 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u173	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing to work on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Mr. Ivanov, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I'm doing a procedure, Madam President, regarding the cancelled art. 5.. on the basis of Art. 5................................................................................. 84, para. 2 sentence 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. And in relation to the proposal adopted by the Commission, as I said, and its withdrawal now adopted in the Chamber of Art. 5 and the related change in art. 1, para. 2 I propose an editorial amendment according to which row 1.1.3.5.3. in para. 2 delete and make a compensated change, with the means of this order being redistributed to the home treatment medicinal products assigned by a protocol and to the medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy under hospital care. In this way, in 2020, colleagues, there will be no exception for certain medicinal products from the mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the National Health Insurance Fund's budget, which are introduced in the amendments to the Capital Insurance Act, thus distributed proportionately and according to the expected costs of the products concerned, as in 2019. Including the specific changes, Madam President, honourable Members, I propose in art. 1, para. 2 as follows: 1. in row 1.1.3.5.1. the number To be replaced by.745 thousand. 300 (s) and 2. in row 1.1.3.5.1.1. the number To be replaced by.433 thousand. 156. 3. in line 1.1.3.5.2. after the word "diseases" add to the list of medicinal products in case of life-threatening bleeding and emergency and invasive interventions in patients with congenital coagulopathy. To be replaced by.498 thousand. 500. Finally, Madam President, honourable Members: in row 1.1.3.5.3. is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. First, of course, I will put to the vote the procedure that you have done. Please vote on Mr. Ivanov's procedure. [[Heckling]] To reschedule art. 1 in relation to withdrawals in art. The adjustments must be made. That was the procedure, wasn't it, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u176	Yeah, yeah. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u177	Since the amount has been dropped, we must now open art. 1 to make the appropriate adjustments, and the adjustments are the ones Mr. Ivanov made. [[Noise and lines.]] First of all, the procedure for whether or not to open... They voted 132 MPs: 92 against 37, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. You have the floor of speech, if anyone wants, on Mr. Ivanov's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u178	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This proposal, as has now been presented suddenly by colleague Ivanov, raises a number of questions regarding the drug policy of the NHIF budget. For the first time this year, in a separate subgroup were taken with a view to cost optimization and their control, a group of drugs for base therapy plus coagulopathy medication, plus medicines for rare diseases. We have had our remarks to the volume of this column, but now with what to call it, a sudden scattering of the cards of the money, these 99 million disappears. They go to other graphs. The question remains quite unclear: how many of them will go for rare diseases, Minister? How many of them will go to base oncotherapy? How many of them are going to go for oncotherapy at all? This, all done with a magic wand at 16.00 or 15.15, cannot in any way satisfy the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. And I will ask the importer of this proposal quite precisely to argue with figures and to explain to us: how is it sudden that the funds that are for rare diseases that were first divided into a separate subgroup go elsewhere and it is not clear what the priority will be in this new subgroup, which fall into... to spend them? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u179	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I think I've made myself very clear. I'm sorry that my colleague missed out on my speech, the beginning of my speech. Certainly, colleagues have the budget for second reading, which is in front of them. That is why I repeat, colleagues: this redistribution for those excluded from the mechanism, which are anyway those medicines that will not have a discount, come out under the common mechanism. There's no exclusion, well, it's quite the redistribution of this order, colleagues that we've agreed to drop. Otherwise, these funds will not be able to be spent at all on medicinal products in the relevant year from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. And I, colleagues, quite transparently before you, because my fellow Member has taken an interest, will again repeat the lines to which we are making the correction, a colleague I propose for editing. In row 1.1.3.5.1., which is in para 1.3.5.1. 2: Including for medicinal products, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes for home treatment from the territory of the country. There, colleagues, the increase is 68 million. lv. And accordingly, colleagues, again in para. 2 row 1.1.3.5.1.1., where the sum is the sum, simply applies the purely arithmetical sum, colleagues, there is not a third separate row. In line 1.1.3.5.2., colleagues, including medicinal products for the treatment of malignancy, under the conditions of hospital medical care, which the NHIF pays outside the value of the medical services provided. 5 treatment in case of life-threatening bleeding and emergency surgery and invasive interventions in patients with congenital coagulopathy. That's where it's increasing, colleagues, by 31.9 million. lv. the budget. So this really composite distribution, which I am making as a proposal, corresponds entirely to the removal of art. 5. I think I'm very clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u181	This is art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u182	Thank you for the correction, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u183	Here's a line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u184	Dear Mr. Ivanov, you have done something that I don't think there is an analogue. The distribution in these lines of the budget for the Health Fund is based on health statistics: number of patients, value of treatment and everything. You threw them away without reading this thing. You just want to compensate them for the fall of art. Five and you throw them away. You didn't know how many patients or how much money you spent on treating these patients. According to my information, it's over 10,000 people, but it could be more. You distributed only one money and obliged the National Health Insurance Fund to be limited within this money without taking into account the number of patients and the volume of their treatment. I think that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u185	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u186	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Ivanov! I have shared many times from this tribune that the view on the budget of the NHIF should be extremely professional and it should take into account the dependencies of individual groups of patients when they need to implement an effective, in this case, antitumor therapy. And it was really positive that in your initial proposal at first reading you had separated this group of medicines, although we said then that they were placed in a basket of medicines that are very different in their interaction in different areas of clinical medicine. Now, only to reject art. 5, this money is mechanically transferred into a much larger group of medicines, I repeat, without knowing what is the way, the mechanism in which they will be spent, which will receive priority, which will not receive priority. And the most important thing here for me is that the problem of the treatment of rare diseases, Mr. Ivanov, I allow myself to tell you this problem will in no way be solved by this sudden change that you are now proposing. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u187	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Third line? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u188	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! The money you're distributing is 99 million. 900,000. BGN, as far as I understand what you're saying, are provided on a list of base therapy, if I understand correctly. Before that, he dropped out of art. Five on your offer. Dr. Daritkova's proposal was based on the fact that this list will be specified further in the Insurance Act... Isn't that right? [[Noise and lines.]] That's what you said. There will be exceptions, but that's what you said, so I understood it. So, I ask you, when this list, in whatever form it is made, is ready, where do we get the money for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Ivanov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u190	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members replicating! Unfortunately, again, it seems my procedure and desire have been misunderstood. Really, colleagues, we're canceling art. This order, which we mentioned earlier, concerning it, does not cancel or close any therapies. On the contrary, we are redeploying them because they have previously been removed from these lines, colleagues, until we reach the level that now, with my current proposal, will be reached. It is simply so that these funds can be legally spent on the relevant types of therapies for medicinal products written with protocols and on other diseases and, naturally, as I have already mentioned, medicinal products for life-threatening bleeding and emergency surgery and invasive interventions in patients with congenital coagulopathy. So, colleagues, there is no other redistribution, there is no lack of mechanism. On the contrary, with this proposal I have made, I think it will be the most transparent, and on the mechanism for financial sustainability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, these funds will be able to reach for patients' therapies in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u192	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try once again to explain what is the point of the proposal to drop this order for medicines that are the exception of the general mechanism for granting concessions. Because that was the point of this bet line in the Cashier's budget table. For the first time this year, the discount mechanism, in order to have predictability and sustainability of the budget for medicinal products of the National Health Insurance Fund, is signed in the Health Insurance Act. So far, it has been regulated in a regulation and has proposed that there should be an exception to this mechanism for a certain list of medicines. The funds for this exception from the discount mechanism were derived from all three main groups for which medicines are paid: medicines for home treatment, medicines for protocol and medicines for the treatment of cancer. In order to restore these funds to individual lines, because we believe that there should be no exceptions to the discount mechanism by holders of the authorisations for use, we have reached the values that were last year for the relevant costs. And that is why we believe that this is fair because, when a budget is made, the costs that have been incurred for 2019 for the relevant groups of medicinal products are taken into account. The point of dropping this article is not to deprive patients of access to certain medicinal products, but to have the same conditions for all holders of authorisation for use, they give concessions to the National Health Insurance Fund so that we can have sustainability and predictability of the budget. The mechanism, as set out in that list, would have shown that one drug for rare diseases can also be considered as one that is outside the exception and for it to be paid discounts and another medicine to be exceptional. And we don't know the criteria for this to happen. And in order to avoid this opaqueness, we propose at this stage without a clear definition not to take such exceptions, but to seek, if necessary, certain medications to have a priority stay on the market, to do so through flexible discount mechanisms in the relevant contracts for the entire portfolio of holders of the authorisations for use or other mechanisms which can then be discussed in the Health Insurance Act. However, a text for a discount mechanism attached to the Insurance Act, which receives an exception in the Cashier's Budget Act, seems incorrect from a legal and technical point of view.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u194	Dear Madam President, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, dear Dr. Daritkova! I understand your thesis, however, which appeared suddenly between first and second readings, because this NHIF law has been considered for months, and putting it on. 1.1.3.5.3 I don't believe it was anyone's idea of putting the NHIF budget in place. It also makes the following sense for the last time I try to explain it to you as a professional in both the field of rare diseases and onclotting and onco-hematological yes, it seems very fair to you, as you are now presenting it to the honourable Chamber, for all medicines to have discounts. But I tried to explain to you that there are drugs for base therapy, there are medicines for rare diseases that have been on the market for decades. If we enter the niche of rare diseases, I must tell you with great bitterness that we have so much to upload to the Bulgarian patients that, unfortunately, there is an unpleasant notion of medical immigration in this area. And I can tell you specific nosological units in which families are forced to leave Bulgaria, since so far. "Five, ten, fifteen years later, have not been admitted to the Bulgarian market, have not been reimbursed by the casata such medicines. And for base therapy, which, as I've allowed myself to share with you several times, disappear from the market, put them back into the common ball again, as I think you've brought them out quite reasonably from concessions, it's justice, but not in the interest of the nation, not in the interest of the sick, and will create additional difficulties in forming the entire palette of therapy in these complex diseases and so successful in the past decades of therapy. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u195	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Dear Dr. Daritkova! I understand the idea that all manufacturers of medicinal products who are authorised to be placed under the same conditions in Bulgaria. I just can't figure out anything else, and I'll tell you what I can't figure out. This is a draft of the Council of Ministers, which has passed coordination procedures through the Ministry of Finance, has passed through the Ministry of Health, is offered in this form. All of a sudden, we have some doubts that are making us blame it on the lobbying manager of the National Health Insurance Fund, the representatives of the Casa Supervisory Board, that this list will be opaque. Are we really accusing them of being irresponsible people? Are they the people who will deprive the Bulgarian patients of the necessary medicinal products, or will they make sure that the spending on medicines.................... will be such as to bring down the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund....................................................... That's what I can't figure out from this whole discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Mr. Ivanov, third line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u198	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Dr Daritkova! It is in the counterpoint of what the colleagues say many times, that the National Assembly and the MPs with their will to take decisions on such legislative proposals, even in the Council of Ministers, and looking for the really transparent spending of the funds of the National Health Insurance Fund, I think that we are preserving at the moment the best mechanism for purchasing medicinal products and the importers of authorisations for the use of these medicinal products to be placed in an equal competitive environment, where to assess the price, quality and therapeutic effect on Bulgarian patients. Therefore, once again, I think that you, by withdrawing your proposal, which was submitted earlier, have acted responsibly and that is why the distribution that we are doing at the moment on my proposal, I think that once again reaffirming and returning those funds that have been allocated under this paragraph, into the funds that have been and previous years for the treatment of these therapies and these diseases. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Daritkova, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that it is not in the interest of the Bulgarian patients but in the interest of the pharmaceutical industry, because there the pharmaceutical industry will have the opportunity to offer its products without clarity and transparency about which preparations will be included in these exceptions. I also believe that the responsibility lies with the National Assembly because we are the people chosen by the people to determine the parameters of the budget in the interests of the people. I therefore believe that our proposal is absolutely logical and must be supported because the discount mechanism sets frameworks and stabilizes the Cassate's budget with regard to drug spending. There should be no exceptions made to this mechanism in a way for which we, the National Assembly, will subsequently not be able to have the necessary control, as the list will be drawn up by the Cashier's Supervisory Board. We believe that if this list were attached to the budget, we could have had clarity and in some way supported such a proposal. But now, in this situation, when we are assigning to negotiate with each pharmaceutical discount company in order to have the sustainability of drug spending within these negotiations, they can be sufficiently flexible to allow for the growth of certain medicines and for a sufficient amount of available medicines that are for the so-called basic therapy. Otherwise, a clear definition by which a list of both basic therapy and rare diseases can be drawn up and no exceptions can be made. And the amounts that we have distributed, I repeat that they reach the budget parameters for last year. If you compare the distribution of funds in all past years in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, it has been in the same way and there have never been exceptions for medicines that do not return discounts in determining the parameters of the budget for medicinal products.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Alexander Ivanov for the editorial amendments made to the substance. Vote 172 MPs: 108, against 64, abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put the entire article to the vote. 1 with the amendment in para. 2 plus the editorial amendments that we have just voted on - Mr. Ivanov's proposals, supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 108 against 67, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u202	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova for § 1. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, as in para. 2 the words "insuring the necessary funding', as defined in the statement of expenditure, shall be replaced by "insuring funding under the statement of expenditure'. According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, as in para. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. In para. 5 the words under conditions and in order established in the order of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. Paragraphs 3 and 4 are by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u203	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u204	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to take a position on § 1, para. 2 which concerns the unused funds until 30 September 2020 for health insurance payments and which concerns payments, together with the Supervisory Board of the Casa and the Governing Council of the Bulgarian Medical Union, respectively the Bulgarian Dental Union. In this case, I think we have a breach of three laws. First of all, this is the Law on word organizations of doctors and dentists, as this law explicitly mentions the functions of the relevant thought organizations.. There is nowhere there that they will determine these payments together with the Supervisory Board of the Casa. Secondly, a second law, which I believe is being broken, is the Health Insurance Act. There is explicitly mentioned what the Casata is doing. She negotiated with the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Dental Union and bought medical activities from contractual partners. However, nowhere in the Health Insurance Act is this function of the Casa, i.e. together with the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Medical Association, respectively of the Bulgarian Dental Union, to carry out the unused funds. And the last law, I believe, is the text of § 1, para. 2 of "Transitional and closing provisions" is in violation of the Public Finance Act. This is why I am making the following proposal: after the words "dental activities on the same lines" to be added and the remainder of the sentence to be cancelled; "under conditions and in order laid down jointly by the Supervisory Board of the NHIF and the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Medical Union, respectively the Bulgarian Dental Union."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u205	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. May I have the text of the proposal? Let me have it with me. [[The National Representative Valentina Naydenova shall submit the text of the proposal to the President.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I will put to the vote the proposal to add to § 1, made by the MP Valentina Naydenova. Vote 172 MPs: 75 against 73 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the name of the importing division; the text of the importer for § 1 with the text proposed by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 2 with the proposals for replacement made by the Commission and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 3 and 4, supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: for 104, against 65, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u206	According to § 5 the proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, as in para. 2 words. 10 and 21 are replaced by........................................................................................................... OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 are by importer. According to § 9 the proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, with the exception of the words under § 10 and shall be replaced by other than for the payment of the amounts under § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u207	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to changes in art. 1, para. 2 I propose an editorial amendment, as in § 5, para. 1 the words..1.1.3.5.2 and 1.1.5.3....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u209	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. First, I will put to the vote the proposed editorial amendment by the MP Alexander Ivanov. Vote 162 MPs: for 101, against 61, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I will put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 5 with the newly adopted editorial amendment made by Mr. Ivanov and the text of the importer for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8, supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 9 with the proposal for replacement proposed by the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: for 101, against 63, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u210	According to § 10, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10 and shall replace the words "all that are due' by "the debtors'. According to § 11, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... (1) The medical establishments which have been registered for the first time since 1 January 2020 or have received for the first time an authorisation to operate under the Law on Medical Institutions shall not be able to conclude contracts with the NHIF in 2020. (2) Medical establishments which entered into a contract in 2019 under the terms and conditions of the LDCs for medical activities for 2018 and its annexes may not enter into contracts or additional agreements with the NHIF in 2020 for activities under new clinical pathways, outpatient procedures and clinical procedures in relation to those agreed by the institution concerned in 2019 unless: 1. these clinical pathways, outpatient procedures and clinical procedures have not been carried out in the territory of the relevant RHIF; 2. the activities of the new clinical pathways, outpatient procedures and clinical procedures shall not exceed the established values under art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) for the relevant hospital medical care contractor, according to the decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF. (3) The conclusion of contracts and/or additional agreements under para. 2 is within the established values under art. 4, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) and cannot restrict the access of health insured persons to medical care to medical care provided in 2019 for the relevant RHIF.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u211	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In § 11 and the amendments proposed by him, we again fall, as many years, into a chugzwang which tests the planning of activities in medical institutions for the next year and their realization. In this § 1 clinical pathways, outpatient procedures and clinical procedures have not been carried out in the territory of the relevant RHIF. You remember, and perhaps you don't remember, Mr. Minister, how we spent years talking about these proposals about the problem and this problem in some places even exploded when you closed up individual hospitals in the heart of district hospitals, no matter what they were for some reasons that were justified, to not be able to, see, next year, when ready to reveal such activity, to not be revealed. Secondly, it may be disclosed if the volume of activity already determined is not exceeded. This means this picture, as much as we want to cut the number of medical institutions, so it looks like it's being offered, but it doesn't actually work that way. The example is very recent in Gabrovo, where a hospital is suddenly revealed, which will probably now receive permission to work and contract with the NHIF, for a reason to leave this frozen picture with the existing relationships of the different types of medical institutions in the respective regional health insurance banks, without ever looking at the health card dynamically, without taking into account the peculiarities of change. It's been happening all over again, I think, for three years now. For a third year these texts are inserted inside and thus for some it becomes absolutely impossible, and for others it suddenly turns out one day a year that it is absolutely possible to reveal a new medical facility. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u213	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. A line? I can't see. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposal that I have made, for the first time, I am extending the possibility to conclude contracts by hospitals for activities which they have covered as requirements for equipment, staff and relevant medical standards during the year. So far, indeed, this has not been possible, and I absolutely agree with the pre-negotiation that this limited the possibility of developing existing hospitals. We had allowed such an exception only for activities which were not presented in the territory of the regional health insurance fund concerned. Now, with this proposal, we allow individual medical specialties for which hospitals already have operating permits to conclude contracts for new clinical pathways and procedures. Of course, we need to ensure the budgetary framework and therefore we have made the requirement to do so within the envisaged budget of hospital care facilities. I believe that this proposal can also be supported by you because it is a step forward and enables the development of existing medical institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. The line, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u216	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dr. Daritkova, we are entering a paragraph 22. On the one hand, in order for the budget to be forecast and so that there are no problems with the implementation of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, you are doing and implementing measures that keep the budget at a certain level. On the other hand, however, we have an increase in the budget for hospital care, as a result of which we increase the prices of certain clinical pathways. Suddenly it turns out that we reduce access to the number of patients who can be treated in the respective establishments, because with a more expensive path to fit in the budget, we have to reduce the number of patients, we pay more to the hospitals, but we reduce the number of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u217	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I don't want to read you verbatimly the proposal, which, I suppose, you have well read, but I repeat and will give you an elementary example, Mr. Minister: closing the emergency activities of the National Pediatric Hospital, if it is now the year 2020, decided to find it, but in RZOC Sofia, there is an urgent activity, how will this be done, how will this work be restored? Has it been thought of? It's closed now, and it's not closed... We will not be having a dialogue at the moment in the framework of the honourable discussion in the Chamber. It's just that the way it's written all this suggests stagnation again, not reflection. As I recall this example with the House of Usi, Nose and Speech in Veliko Tarnovo, and in Oryahovo, I have discussed it with you personally, Dr. Daritkova. There is a department of Uschi, nose, mouth in Oryahovo, Tarnovo wants to find a department of Uschi, nose, mouth. He can't, because that's the kind of activity he has in the Regional Health Insurance Fund. That is the point of the misplaced proposal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u219	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Is there another line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u220	Dear colleagues, you use every statement to speculate on the closure of some emergency room in a pediatric hospital. Unfortunately, there is no emergency room at the Pediatric Hospital, there is an Intensive ward with four beds, which, due to leaving the anesthesiologists, has temporarily ceased its activity. Let us be clear and thus do not struggle to exploit people's fears. An organization has been established and there will be assistance in all emergency rooms of the other hospitals where there are organized hospitals. And the proposal that we have made is precisely in the direction of extending the possibility for health institutions with relevant business permits to be able to conclude contracts on clinical pathways and those implemented on the territory of the regional health insurance fund concerned, but nevertheless, provided that the framework of the budget is complied with, something that is mandatory to ensure that we have ensured that the budget reaches for all health-insured Bulgarian citizens in all regions, within the course of the budgetary year, we give the chance to hospital care facilities to expand their activities under the conditions and resources available, which they must comply with for the relevant activity. I believe that this is a step forward in expanding the possibilities for enriching the activities of medical institutions and improving the access of Bulgarian citizens to hospital care.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Are there any other speeches? I don't see anyone else. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put two texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 10 with the proposals for replacements made by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11. Vote 167 MPs: for 94, against 71, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u222	There is a proposal of the National Representative Simeon Naydenov and a group of MPs: "1." A new § 11a shall be created with the following content: ..... 11a............................................................................. Retailers of medicinal products which, after 1 January 2020, have been authorised for retail sale of medicinal products under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine cannot enter into contracts with the NHIF in 2020 for the provision of medicinal products, medical devices and dietary foods for special medical purposes for home treatment, paid in full or in part by the NHIF/RHIF. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u223	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Simeon Naydenov and a group of MPs by the Commission. I see there's difficulty, colleagues, I'll wait. [[Heckling]] Please cancel the vote. It is obvious that there are problems with the system, we will vote again. Voting mode, please. [[Noise and lines.]] Cancel the vote. Here we go again. We're voting now. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 166 MPs: for 4, against 109, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u224	According to § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... (1) Until completion of the procedure under the order of the ordinance under art. 30a of the Medical Devices Act for determining the value to which the NHIF pays the aids, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons, but not later than 30 June 2020, but for the aids, fittings, equipment and medical devices for disabled persons made to order, no later than 31 October 2020, the NHIF shall pay their value under the current conditions and order to the dimensions set out on 31 December 2019. (2) Until the conclusion of individual contracts with the persons referred to in art. 45, para. 16 of the Health Insurance Act carrying out activities for the provision and repair of auxiliary equipment, fittings, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons, but not later than 30 June 2020, but for auxiliary equipment, fittings, equipment and medical devices for persons with disabilities, made on request, no later than 31 October 2020, the NHIF shall pay the funds for the assistance, equipment and medical devices provided to disabled persons or for their repair under the current terms and conditions. (3) The payments under para. 2 shall be carried out through the Agency for Social Assistance and the NHIF shall transfer the funds necessary to pay the amounts requested. The amounts shall be declared by the persons carrying out the activities of providing and repairing assistance, fittings, facilities and medical devices for disabled persons to the Agency for Social Assistance, which shall pay them under the current terms and conditions. (4) In the cases under para. 2 the provision of assistance, gadgets, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities is carried out under the current terms and conditions. Under Paragraph 13, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 is created t. 4a: 4a. adopt a mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget under art. 45, para. 29;.............................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 7, p. 18 the mechanism under art. 18 shall be added at the end. 45, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1, t. 1 letter "in" the words "at the same time as the contribution to the state social security" shall be replaced by "in the time limits laid down in art. 7 of the Social Security Code. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of Article 10 shall be deleted as well as the mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget; (b) in para. The second sentence of the 21st sentence, as well as the mechanisms ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF's budget, shall be deleted; (c) in para. In the absence of a result, the funds paid by the NHIF may be recovered to the NHIF by the holders of the Marketing Authorisations/their authorised representatives under conditions and in order laid down in the Regulation under para. 9..................................................... (d) Paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 29, 30, 31 and 32: For medicinal products wholly or partly paid by the NHIF, a mechanism shall apply to ensure predictability and sustainability of the NHIF budget, which shall be adopted annually by a decision of the NHIF Supervisory Board in accordance with the means of health insurance payments for medicinal products set out in the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year. The mechanism shall be adopted after promulgation in the Official Journal of the NHIF Budget Act for the year concerned, but not later than 31 January of the year to which it applies. The mechanism shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the Governor of the NHIF. (30) The mechanism under para. 29 shall apply: 1. for medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, paid in full or in part by the NHIF for home treatment in the territory of the country, and for medicinal products included in the Positive Drug List under art. 262, para. 6, p. 2 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and paid by the NHIF in hospital medical care outside the value of the medical services provided, except for medicinal products excluded from the scope of the mechanism with the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year, and 2. for the marketing authorisation holders/their authorised representatives of the medicinal products under point 2. 1 to which the mechanism is applicable in the case of the grounds and conditions laid down therein, and 3. for the calendar year for which it has been adopted. (31) For the implementation of the mechanism under para. 29 NHIFs and holders of marketing authorisations or their authorised representatives shall enter into contracts annually by 1 March of the year concerned, which shall enter into force from 1 January of the year. Medicinal products under para. 30, t. 1 for which contracts have not been concluded by 1 March of the year concerned, shall not be paid by the NHIF. (32) The Marketing Authorisation Holders of the medicinal products under para. 30, t. 1 refund the excess amounts established in application of the mechanism under the terms and conditions of the regulation under para. 9. The reimbursement shall be in full of the costs incurred by the NHIF for medicinal products above the assigned target resources in the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year, taking into account the share of the reserve in the decision of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF under Art. 15, para. 1, t. 7. 5. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 29: It's 29. A mechanism ensuring predictability and sustainability of the NHIF's budget is a measure applied in the event of the payment of the relevant funds for health insurance payments for medicinal products as defined in the NHIF Budget Act for the relevant year in order to ensure access to treatment of medicinal products for health insured persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u225	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure I am making the following proposal for legal and technical versions in the text of the Report of the Commission concerning the rejection of art. 5 of the Bill: In § 13, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 (a.k.a. 30 words, except for medicinal products excluded from the scope of the mechanism with the NHIF Budget Act for the year concerned, shall be deleted. We confirm our view that there should be no exceptions to the mechanism for granting concessions for medicinal products in order to ensure predictability of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund and to guarantee the access of health insured persons to medicinal products.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u227	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. First, I will put to the vote the editorial amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova. Please vote. Vote 162 MPs: 91, against 67, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12, the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13 with the amendments already adopted by the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova. Please vote. Vote 155 MPs: 90 against 65 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u228	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Act on the Budget of the NHIF for 2019 (prom., D.V., No. ...) the following additions shall be made to the transitional and final provisions: 1. In § 1, para. 2 after the words "dental activities', after the provision of the financing under § 1a, para. 1.................................................................................. 2. Paragraph 1a is inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. (1) For the payment of the amounts due under the effective judicial decisions against the NHIF in relation to health insurance payments, the NHIF Supervisory Board, on a proposal from the NHIF Governor, shall, in due time, approve compensated changes between the indicators of the NHIF budget in the part of expenditure and transfers. (2) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall decide on the allocation of the funds under art. 1, para. For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply: OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal, i.e. 2 is reflected in its systematic place in § 16. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 82, para. The second sentence is created: "The treatment for cancer and onco-hematology, which began before the age of 18 years, continues to be paid after the age of this age until the end of treatment.' Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2020, with the exception of paragraphs 14 and 15, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u229	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u230	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will take account of the proposal from the National Representative Mrs. Menda Kirilova Stoyanova for the creation of § 15. I don't know if she's in the gym right now. [[Heckling]] I would like to share with you that the paragraph that has been submitted in this way, from a purely legal point of view, creates age segregation and I will tell you why this is something extremely serious. And I'm asking you to take a good look at the paragraph, think it over. If you get sick at 17 years and six months, God forbid, 16 years old from cancer, you should know that for the treatment of a large group of cancers, innovative and other medicines for antitumour treatment are used, which are neither on the Positive List nor are available for distribution in the Republic of Bulgaria. And that was the goal, Mr. Minister, you know, of the Fund for treatment abroad, which then transferred to the Agency for Medical Supervision. It is now available on an age basis.......................................................................................... But if you were sick at 18 years and a month and even 18 years and one day, then all those opportunities that the Fund for Treatment abroad had to support Bulgarian children, all those opportunities that the Agency for Medical Supervision had so far and after the series of problems that arose, were very well arranged not to involve Bulgarian parents in the problems of prescriptions, the request for medication. This will remain only for those patients in Bulgaria who got sick before the age of 18. This is a segregation mechanism that is absolutely inappropriate from a legal point of view, and I believe that we should seriously review it and not allow such a separation of possibilities between patients who have become ill under 18, who have completed them and are continuing. This is an extremely serious matter. I'm telling you with all my responsibility as a doctor. There will be precedents for patients who have become ill over the age of 18 who for their loved ones are really still children. They have not graduated from high school, and such a division will create exceptional problems, Mr. Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u231	Thank you. - What's the line? Come in, Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u232	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm really surprised. You have decided to be a firm opposition, even for this proposal, which I believe is absolutely positive and is in the interest of patients with onco-hematological diseases treated in children's onco-hematological wards. At least that's what you'll support. This proposal is made at the request of children's oncohematologists because there are a number of diseases, you know better than me, Professor Mihaylov, who start precisely at this age, and at the age of 18 the treatment should continue in the wards that are for patients over 18 years. We give these patients the legal opportunity to continue to be treated in children's oncohematology wards at the places where they are familiar with this type of specific oncohematological diseases, monitoring and providing all treatment for these patients. So far, the principle was: at the age of 18 they had to transfer these patients to wards that treated patients over 18 years of age. This created exceptional stress, violated the therapeutic regimen and the possibility of the Fund for Treatment, which is to the National Health Insurance Fund, to provide certain medications for these patients. There have been media reports of such cases. Colleagues, this is an extremely positive proposal, in the interest of severely ill patients with onco-hematological diseases who have become ill before their 18th year, but the treatment is long-term and should be provided in conditions that are best and most secure for them, with the most suitable medications. In this sense, this proposal has been made and I expect everyone in this House to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Daritkova. [[Applause from GERB.]] The line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u234	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Dr. Daritkova, read your proposal carefully. It does not say anywhere that the sick will continue to be treated in the same children's oncohematological establishments. You're deepening the mess. You're in the middle of a mess! This isn't about something that's positive. I don't mind, and no doctor would mind, a patient who started his treatment before the age of 18... Let's not explain to me how long this treatment lasts, what medications are used, what opportunities there is to continue it after 18 years of age completely free of charge, but again, from a legal point of view, there is nowhere in your proposal: in the same medical establishment. Does it say that? It doesn't say that. It says: to continue for free treatment. [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] No, no, please! I ask you as a doctor, because this is a very positive suggestion: if a boy or a girl gets sick at 18 years and a month, what will happen to him? When 18 years ago the Agency for Medical Supervision provided him with opportunities that were not available, and you know that very well, the Minister knows that. I remember back in the day, and I'm telling you very seriously... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] It's not about you and me arguing, it's about precedent. At the time when we introduced tyrosine-quinase inhibitors for the treatment of patients with chronic myelogenous leukaemia, the health minister had proposed that they be used in the Republic of Poland for patients up to a certain age. It was an explosion at the International Court of Justice in The Hague, in Strasbourg. Do not segregate patients of age in general. I'm telling you this as a doctor who gave 20 years of his life for sick children. This is not serious! I'm not saying you think it's positive, I'm telling you it's not serious. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u235	Thank you. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u236	Dear Professor Mihailov, this proposal is given to me by children oncohematologists who continue to treat these children because they cannot abandon their patients, but do not receive payment from the National Health Insurance Fund. That is why we have written in the proposal: the same activities are being paid. That is, they will be able to receive payment for clinical pathways that are separated otherwise in the description of clinical pathways up to 18 years of age and older. We give a positive option to children's oncohematology wards to complete their patients' treatment. They're doing it now, but they don't have funding for this activity. That really makes it difficult for colleagues. This is done at the request of doctors from these wards and is agreed with other oncohematologists. I believe that the National Assembly should take it precisely in that sense. When you're 18 years old, you start your treatment somewhere else, not in the children's oncohematological wards. Stress is huge precisely for those severely ill patients who started treating themselves before their 18th year and will continue to be treated in the same place, because psychological comfort is extremely important, and the trust they have in doctors who have discovered the disease. I don't have to explain it to you. I never expected that this paragraph would cause such controversy and such a severe misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u237	Thank you. Mr. Mihailov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! About the fact that the proposal is actually positive, but it makes problems... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] No, we offer a 10-minute consultation break with regard to this paragraph, and then we actually draw up a proposal that corresponds to the interests of all citizens, and not only to a particular group. Let's take a break. Let's calmly discuss this paragraph. Let's find an editorial proposal that will be legal, which will satisfy the nation's interests, and then let's do it. Undoubtedly, this proposal is positive, but there is an element in it that cannot in any case be accepted the age division. That's what I'm trying to say. That's why I'm offering this vacation to clear this up. There are no VICs anywhere in your proposal. It only says payday. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u239	Mr. Mikhailov, I understand. On behalf of the parliamentary group, you want a ten-minute recess. Ten minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u240	I ask the MPs to take their seats, we continue our work. We are continuing the debate. Let me remind you that we are looking at paragraphs 14, 15 and 16. Mr. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We absolutely and categorically welcome the proposal, and this is for the good of the children. The best of all this is that you will not have to move the medical facilities and go to treatment elsewhere, and most importantly, the treatment will be paid for. We offer: The treatment for oncological and oncohemological diseases, which began before the age of 18 years, continues to be paid after the age of this age until the end of treatment in a specialized pediatric hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u242	Are there any other statements? I'm calling off the debate. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislav Taskov to supplement the newly created § 15. Vote 162 MPs: 74 against 19, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once the proposal has not been accepted, I ask for a split vote on § 15 of the other paragraphs that we will be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u244	Got it. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 171 MPs: 98, against 66, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 172 MPs: for 171, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u245	I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u246	Revoting § 15. Vote 175 MPs: 174 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the wording of § 14, which shall become § 16 of the Commission Report. Vote 172 MPs: 99, against 68, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. With this, we have completed this budget bill. Minister, enough has been said for the NHIF budget for 2020. Thank you for your participation. Let's continue with: COMMISSION'S BUDGET AND ECONOMIC REPORT ON THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2020 You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor, and Mr. Dragomir Draganov and Mrs. Snezhana Malakova, Director of the Board at the National Insurance Institute.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u248	I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. Vote 141 MPs: 138 against 1, abstention 2. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u249	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u250	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 133 MPs: 118, against 8, abstention 7. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u251	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 1 number..12 455 390.4 thousand. To be replaced by the number s 12 555 390.4 thousand. lv. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 in I. 1.1 the number..8054656,1 thousand. lv. "to be replaced by the number " " 8 154 656,1 thousand. lv. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the number s. 12 455 690.4 thousand. lv. size to be replaced by the number..12455690,4 thousand. lv. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 1.1.1 the number To be replaced by 10 499 353,3 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - in line I. "Accounts and transfers" is replaced by "14 280 390,4" by the number "12,455,690.4" and is replaced by "14 280,690,4." - on line one. "Safety revenue' is replaced by "Safety revenue' by "Safety revenue'. - in row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row five. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - in line I. "Costs and transfers' is replaced by "14 280 390,4'. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - in row 1.1. ====Pensions==================================================================================================================================================================================*==================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== - in row 1.1.1. ====Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security==========================================External links==========================================================================================External - in row 1.2. The number of social benefits and benefits is 1 739 340.4 is replaced by 1 814 340.4 and is replaced by 1 814 340.4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u252	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am pleased that you are here to hear what the opposition has to say about the State Social Security Budget Act for 2020. Since there are representatives of the National Insurance Institute who have prepared the budget, I would like to congratulate them on its professional work. When I say that the budget is prepared professionally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that they follow a set political framework and in this framework they have done the budget as required by all the attributes of a budget. Another question is whether the political framework is good or is it being criticised. Needless to say, in art. 1 All revenue, transfers, expenditures and deficits in the state social security budget shall be governed. All parliamentary groups that have made any changes to the budget of state social security, showing the policies they will follow in social security, have made proposals in this article. 1. It is not serious if they have made proposals only further and have not made proposals in art. 1 or in the corresponding feather funds. I will not speak on all funds, but I will say why we do not support the revenue and expenditure in the budget of state social security. I would say that budget revenues have been underestimated again and, if there is any increase, it is a mechanical increase without the aim of financing any policies. There is nothing different from the previous years and the revenue of this budget gives no opportunity to conduct policies other than those previously held. Madam Minister, you have just become Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I assume you have some insight into the budget for state social security. If you feel that you should make any policy other than what has been, and you should do it, because that's why the Minister has gone because he hasn't done anything different for two or three years, you should have criticism of the revenue side of the budget, because he will not allow you to make policies other than those that have been before. This is evident from now on in the budget "All social payments are generally frozen. There's nothing new about pensions, and so on. Both in the revenue and in the spending part of the budget, I notice a financial effort to reduce the transfer from the state budget to state social security again mechanically, without thinking that this approach will not allow new policies to be carried out, I say again, different from what has been done before. I'm going to say a few words on the various funds so I don't take the floor any further, and a few words about our proposal. Our proposal for revenue, expenses and transfers under art. 1 reflects our philosophy and our policies in the social sphere, in which we are principled and followed for a long time. They're not whims, we didn't come up with them now. We have made an entirely alternative budget because, I say, this is the serious part of telling where the revenue will come from if you want to make expenses. Naturally, I like our proposal more than anyone else, because it really reflects our policies in the social sphere. From the revenue side comes things from increasing the maximum insurance income. In the spending part, we want to finance more in the calculation of pensions, which all pensioners want. We want to finance a larger amount of maternity for the second year, child care benefits from one to two years, minimum pensions and so on. Since there is no time, I will not motivate every policy separately, but when we come to our respective proposals, I will make a statement to motivate them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, and I'm saying that we don't have to worry about the fact that we can accept the part proposed by...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u254	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u255	Let me finish the sentence. Let's accept the offer of the importers and adopt one of the policies that we propose because we can go back to art. 1 and change things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u256	- What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u257	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our parliamentary group proposes an revenue increase of 100 million. We have reflected them as an increase in social security contributions, respectively, an increase in costs. Why do we offer this increase? Further on, in the part of.............................................................................................. Firstly, because by the end of October, if I am not mistaken, the overexecution in the revenue part of the 2019 state social security budget is at 146 million, which means that by the end of the year this money will already be a significant amount. This means that there is no problem that the increase in revenues in the state social security budget will be accepted here. What is more, you will see further in the section that policies have been adopted, which, on the proposal of the government, are not linked to revenue, by exactly 80 million. Here is an opportunity to support this proposal so that you can balance the budget. Otherwise, to rely on that in the course of the implementation of the budget of state social security, there will be surpluses to cover this expenditure, contrary, as you well know, to the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Are there lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u259	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I use your presence here so that at the end of the examination of the state social security budget we can hear the answers to many questions that arose at first reading and to which we did not receive an answer. What we are currently looking at in art. 1 shall be the revenue and expenditure of the consolidated budget of state social security. What we see in this article. 1? Reduction of the revenue side in order not to be able to bear normally the costs that adequately meet the needs of pensioners, the needs of the unemployed, the needs of mothers who raise their children between the first and the second year. The budget is an instrument with which a catch-up policy must be implemented at the average European levels. What we see now from what you offer under art. 1? First, an extremely low number of the average monthly insured persons. Extremely high number of pensioners in the expenditure area. If they're less than 17,000 people this year, why would we bet such a retirement expense? The Commission shall adopt the proposal in art. 9 of one part of you - Mrs. Daritkova and other MPs - to increase the minimum pension to 250 BGN. July 1st. Where in the statement of expenditure under art. 1 Do we see this adopted Commission proposal reflected? He's gone! What do we suggest? We offer and look at the budget as we see it in this year's report - a real number of medium-insured persons for next year, which increases the revenue side. We are offering the real amount of pensioners who will receive pensions. We offer a significant increase in the minimum wage. In this case, we are not talking about a minimum wage, but we are talking about a minimum amount of insurance income of self-insuring persons, which is the same, but we propose it to be 650 BGN. We offer an increase in maximum insurance income because the pension, insurance, tax system in Bulgaria must offer a level playing field, a solidarity, a justice. What are we doing? The high income groups will return to the table from last week in response to the Minister of Finance and there we will see that the people who receive incomes over 3000 BGN are not few. Why don't we increase the maximum insurance income? What do we suggest? Again an increase of the revenue to BGN 3900. the maximum insurance income to meet the needs of mothers who raise their children between the first and the second year in order to meet the needs of Bulgarian pensioners who live below the poverty threshold of more than 70% of Bulgarian pensioners. We propose in the spending part an increase in the cost of the so-called recalculation of pensions. What I would like to say to you, honourable gentlemen of the Board of Directors, open your Management Program and see what you have written in it: I think it's art. 1 in the proposed budget of state social security is fundamental. He lays down the budget framework and I think all these policies [[the President signals that time has run out]] All those questions we didn't get an answer to. [[the President signals that time has run out]] They give real clarity about what we should do with people's incomes. [[The President signals that time has expired. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u260	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Five minutes was the time. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, you have one more minute, it was my fault. [[Reply from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u261	Next time, six minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u262	I'll make up for your next speech. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 176 MPs: 88, Against 41, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am doing a re-voting procedure, as my fellow Members have failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u264	It's a re-vote. Vote 190 MPs: 90 against 66 abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 190 MPs: 91, against 73, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 192 MPs: for 106, against 86, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u265	Under art. 2 has a proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1, 577 684 thousand. To be replaced by 5 677 684 thousand. lv. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 1 in I and 1.1. the number lv. "to be replaced by the number. "5 619 033.9 thousand. lv. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2 in I, 1, 1.1. the number lv. size to be replaced by the number sie 9 596 094,4 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number... 577 (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - in line I. The number 577 684 is replaced by 6 574 168.7. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - in line I. The number "9 496 094,4" is replaced by "11 246 094,4" and "the number" is replaced by "the number" and "the number" is replaced by "the number" and "the number" is replaced by "the number" and "the number" is replaced by "the number" and - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - in row 1.1. The number of "9 495 527.5' is replaced by "11 245 527,5'. - in row 1.1.1. The number "9 494 427,5" is replaced by "11 244 427,5" at the expense of the State Social Security. 3. In para. 3 the number "supplied 3 918 410.4" is replaced by "supplied 4-671 925,7." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u266	Thank you. Statements? Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u267	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Today we are looking at the Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget, which forms policies for parents and working pensioners. In this statement I will take account of art. 2 and the Fund, respectively. In it we are looking at the revenue and the share of the Fund, which is our proposal, that we, unlike you, are raising the revenue. My colleagues before that in art. 1 commented that you deliberately reduce revenue in the revenue section in order to then, where necessary, implement the recalculation of pensions and say that there is no money for this. I am commenting now on this topic because it is very important that we adopt this proposal so that our proposal to recalculate pensions can be implemented, for which we have been fighting for years. We have commented on this subject many times, and this time I want you to understand me better. I don't know if you'll understand me, but still to get into the subject, because it is extremely important, or rather vital for the pensioners, because it is not normal in a country that 50% of the pensioners, millions of pensioners, should receive the required standard of living. In recent years, the government has preferred to remain silent on this subject or not to comment rather than solve problems. Now you're talking about the problem with the second pensions. In the social sphere and in the pension system, there has been a lot of silence. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, these problems will erupt with full force, and very soon, and this will not be solved with the Prime Minister's fuse box. What do I mean? When we cannot deal with a problem or with upcoming protests, with upcoming civil discontent, we try in some way to neglect the problem or throw, as they say, dust in the eyes of the people. Or, again short and clear, to understand me, you offer pensioners the minimum pension to be 250 BGN. That doesn't solve the problem. The ratio of old and new pensions is one to two and more. The minimum and maximum pensions are 55% of the people who have retired at the retirement date that is 55% of their income and the other 30 is 32%. This is injustice! Many times in this Chamber we have talked about the principles of equality in the social and pension systems. What, though, do we do with this injustice? You are offering an increase of 6.7% and to other pensioners with a double increase of about 14%. Supporting people with minimal social contribution must be decided through another instrument. This is a topic that we need to debate seriously. This will happen perhaps through social support, but here the problem facing our citizens, our elderly people is not with the increase of the minimum pension of 250 BGN. What do I mean by that and clearly stress you once again? Two hundred and fifty leva per month divided by 30 days, this is 8,33 leva. a day. Repeat, BGN 8.33. A day's work for the elderly! What do you decide with that? How can older people live to see? I can't imagine it. You may be able to calculate this yourself, but I repeat once again: BGN 8.33. a day for the Bulgarian pensioners! I hope now and then when discussing other pension issues, you get a blue light, because you don't have a red light. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u268	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I am making this statement provoked by the previous speech because it has been said that we have been silent about the debate on recalculating pensions. That's not true! We have had this debate many times here in plenary and at a meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. The debate on recalculating pensions is always worth a lot of attention, but I think this debate should not automatically be transferred to the National Assembly here in plenary. It should be conducted outside with experts from the National Insurance Institute, along with trade unions, with employers, because this debate should be supported by real actuarial estimates. Because the main question with regard to the recalculation of pensions is: where will this money be taken? We have repeatedly said that this recalculation of pensions, which you want for next year, amounts to 1 billion. Seven hundred million. lv. The main question is: where will this money come from? One billion and 700 million. lv. are only for next 2020, and what do we do in the years ahead of 2021, 2022? This amount will grow rapidly. What does it mean if we accept this proposal? We automatically violate the financial stability of the pension system. Until a few weeks ago, at first reading, we had this debate and we said when we looked at the budget for state social security that the positive tendency to reduce the deficit of state social security continues. Ten years ago, when we took over the government, we took over state social security with a large deficit, two thirds of the pension money was paid by the state, by our taxes. And now, in 2019, less than a third of the pension money will be paid from the state budget. This is an achievement of this government and the previous governments. I think that deserves attention. If we accept your offer, that means we have 1 billion. and 700 million. lv. We automatically increase the deficit of state social security next year. So this debate deserves attention, but not in this way that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u270	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Gokov, Mrs. Jeleva. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I am very surprised by how the debate should be conducted outside because I do not see how we can debate outside and make decisions in the National Assembly. We are waiting for you to remember to lead this debate on the reclaim of pensions outside at least I have been remembering for 5 years, and people have been waiting for it since 2007 for this debate to take place outside. I don't know what you mean about having the debate outside. Perhaps Prime Minister Borissov should say "to" or "not" because I do not see what other debate can be held outside. You're talking about the NSI experts. The NSI experts will tell you that a recalculation can happen, they will tell you that a recalculation may not happen, because it depends on what assignment the government will ask them because people are obliged to follow the policies they conduct. However, I am telling you that sooner or later you will have to recalculate pensions, because there is no way for these people to continue driving on a semi-uniter. You know how many people in retirement are on minimum pension? You know how many people are below the poverty line? About a million and three hundred, a million and five hundred thousand will become, which are below the poverty line, BGN 363. If you keep making these people live with that money, I don't know how far you'll get. You can probably pay to buy elections, but you can't go on forever, because stronger than the TV and the election money is the refrigerator people say. When he opens his fridge and sees there's nothing inside, you'll have to recalculate them. I will not continue to justify our request for recalculation of pensions due to lack of time, but will do so by coming § 3, the additional point 22a that we have proposed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll explain to the Minister. Then I will give you the call of the protesting pensioners, it says how many signatures there are.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u272	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u273	So forget about these debates outside the parliament, because they don't interest you, you're interested in pulling the numbers now. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u274	Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, first of all, I would like to say that I would agree with you that this problem can only be solved outside. Yes, because for years you can't solve it. Obviously, by protesting outside, this problem can be solved by people with their civil discontent bringing down your governance, because you clearly and categorically say that the recalculation of pensions will not happen. Secondly, you're saying that we don't say where the money is going to be taken. You didn't read the report. Read it and see! There we offer our calculations and our alternative budget. If you cannot do so, carry out the proposal from our alternative budget. If you can't handle it, accept our offer. Three, you're silent, yes. You keep quiet, because now you want to cover it up again, let's go in another direction and keep it quiet, and for how long? The missionaries will say, I'm sure. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u276	Mrs. Klisurska, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u277	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, first of all, I will ask you the question: what are we doing with your Management Program, in which you promise the Bulgarian pensioners that you will recalculate the pensions? Secondly, what is the adequacy of your proposal, Mrs. Angelova, only to increase the amount of the minimum pension, then only increase the minimum pension, Mrs. Angelova, increase the minimum size by 14%, of the other pensioners by 6.7%? So at the moment, with your proposal, you are providing an opportunity for about 200,000 pensioners to receive an increase in pensions and the remaining 2 million Bulgarian pensioners to go beyond the scope of this proposal. Well, ours is much fairer, much more solid and will really respond to what is set out in the Social Security Code. Where's the money coming from? I said it, buffers, you put them on. See the reply of the National Insurance Institute from June when it indicates how many Bulgarian pensioners are currently. Open your answer, you're in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. According to the NSI's reply, Bulgarian pensioners are 2 million. $100,000. Look how much we're putting into next year's budget, what's the increase. Do you think this buffer is not one of the buffers with which we can provide this proposal? If you read carefully because at the moment what you are talking about is for the whole year, our proposal is not for the whole year, but for the last four months of the year and it amounts to about 500 million. lv. expenditure that the state must set aside. And that's exactly the 500 million. lv. expenditure that the state will allocate will come precisely from the normal number of insured persons who will contribute to the insurance system from the normal increase of the minimum wage, from the increase of the maximum insurance income, because 100,000 people receive incomes over 3,000. lv. and they have to bring solidarity into this insurance system, but they don't, and many, many other options that we have identified in the alternative budget. So answer all these questions so that the House can be adequate how to vote. I think our proposal is adequate. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u278	Thank you. Hole, Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u279	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear replicators, I believe that your proposal is not so correct, and when you say it, you should also say why. Because this recalculation of pensions will not result in a recalculation of the pensions of all pensioners. Recalculation will not receive those who have a minimum pension, recalculation will not receive those who have a maximum pension, recalculation will not receive those who have a non-employment pension. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] So, yeah, that's right. Such a recalculation of pensions was in 2007, when Minister of Labour and Social Policy was Mrs. Maslarova. Then I remember very well how much money the people of the third age received over pensions and how they returned Mrs. Maslarova's pennies in an envelope. So your proposal is a pure populist move that will not result in a real increase in the amount of all pensions for all pensioners. On the contrary, this will only lead to an increase in the deficit of state social security, which will be detrimental to the pension system. You want to return us to a starting point in 2009 when we took over the government deficit management. [[Noise and lines.]] We will not allow this to happen at the expense of Bulgarian citizens because who will pay this high price, who? Everyone's working. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u280	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Speaking, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! At the moment there is an extremely important debate concerning not only these one and a half million poor Bulgarian pensioners, but also the young Bulgarians working in Bulgaria. Because at these levels of pension they have no faith, no security in the insurance system in Bulgaria, respectively they are not provided. You're saying this isn't the kind of debate we should be having here. And where to lead, who accepts the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria? Isn't he here in the National Assembly? Is it supposed to be out on the highways? There, if we paraphrase the Prime Minister when he asks the person:. Hello, set, do you drive the tractor?.. The man says............................................................ The new Minister is also debating here Mrs. Sacheva, who I am interested in hearing her opinion on this pension debate, because it is not being held today or yesterday. Both in parliament and outside parliament has been led and continues to obviously be fought with a logical argument on your part. This is where they keep their mouths shut and the United Patriarchs. What is their opinion? We wanted to increase and recalculate all types of pensions. How are you going to vote now? There is talk about the revenue of the budget and the expenditure. This is essential for then in art. 10 Our proposal for 300 BGN pension. Will you support our proposal here, or will you not support it by the United Patriarchs? And the Minister is nice here on the debut to say her opinion whether she will only implement the policies of GERB, as announced here, or some coalition policies that are not yet clear to anyone what they are and what they are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u282	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Statements? Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I think that this issue is really very relevant and until it is resolved, regardless of who is in power in Bulgaria, it will always stand. Why? Because a serious debate leads to this, and that is what specialists have said, that there is tension in the pension system between the so-called old and the so-called new pensions. What we propose solves this issue. He doesn't allow money to be given to a cock. It allows the contribution of each but another base to be taken into account, and it is laid down here in this Article, the increase of funds. Speculation is that the social security system will go back years. She went with the cooperation of everyone to move towards being a separate system. What we now propose is that from the figures 66 to 33 go to 60 to 40. This is the truth as numbers, these are the numbers that are, by making the ratio of contribution and of independent income in the insurance system. This problem has long been seen in the Actuarial Report of the National Insurance Institute that it will deepen over time and people rightly demand a recalculation of the pension. They don't want social benefits, they want to get money to live with and know that they've earned them themselves because otherwise they don't feel free, they can't move, they can't choose things, they can't wait every Christmas and Easter to get a little money to solve this issue by propaganda and on the other hand. These are the serious motives, the rest is more of a fight and this issue will not be taken down, and it will not be taken down by the Bulgarian Socialist Party, it will not be removed from society until it finds its solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u284	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me remind you that we have already accepted art. 1 in which revenue and expenditure are accepted, which means that if the following proposals are accepted, we must go back to change the numbers, not the figures, Mr Nedyalkov, in art. 1. The proposal we make under art. 2, is related to a very important problem. All of you who meet voters at the age of retirement ask the same question, not so much the question of recalculating pensions as one other question? Why is the update of pensions from July 1st and not January 1st? That is why we propose that at least the minimum pension for internship and age should be increased, updated, not from 1 July, but from 1 January. The proposals we have made in this article are precisely in this regard. And as for the reclaim of pensions, there is one § 3, in which we will discuss further this very important and very interesting topic, you will also hear many interesting numbers which I will try to quote to you then.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u286	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? We don't. I'm closing the debate. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 191 MPs: 87, Against 55, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 197 MPs: for 89, against 59, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 2, supported by the Commission. Vote 191 MPs: 107 against 83, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u287	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 3, 4 and 5, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u288	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u289	Very briefly under art. 3 because it is related to another member when it comes to the minimum insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers. Dear colleagues, with all due respect to those who are provided under art. 69 of the Social Security Code, the security sector, there is 60.8% and is entirely at the expense of the state budget. And look what it's about. It shall adopt the budget of the Fund for the persons referred to in Article 1. 69, as follows: minus 147 million. 542,000, on the one hand, 60.8% insurance contributions, on the other hand, 147 million deficit in this fund. That is, when we talk about justice, when we talk about this balancing the individual funds of the state social security budget, we need to think about when we are honest and sincere, when we accept a deficit of 147 million, or when it comes to 14 million, when we are talking about farmers and tobacco producers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u290	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote, respectively, Articles 3, 4 and 5 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 114, against 60, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u291	Under art. 6 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 all over the text (the introductory sentence and rows I., 1. and 1.1. of the table) the number [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u292	Please keep your voice down, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u293	"2." In para. The following amendments shall be made: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - on line I. "Costs and transfers' is replaced by "1 290 438.5" by "1 365 438.5'; - in row 1 [[Noise and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u294	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u295	The number of the social benefits and benefits of the social assistance line 1.2 is replaced by the number of the social assistance line 1 287 638.5 is replaced by the number of the social benefits and benefits. 3. In para. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u296	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u297	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, under art. 6 We propose that the costs be increased, so that there may be a more appropriate compensation to mothers for raising their children from one to two years old. Here I will quote one reference: for 2013 the compensation was 240 BGN, next 2014. BGN 340, tied to the minimum wage, 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, For the second and third consecutive year, we do not make any proposal to increase the compensation for raising a child between the first and the second year. Well, ladies and gentlemen, every time I say this, it equals BGN 1.33. the daily cost that the mother must provide for her child and herself. In this fund, General illness and motherhood, you know that we all import all the way through our work, all the way through our social security, and the father also. You know, I'm going to read you a sentence from the manager of the NSI two years ago when we increased the amount of this compensation from 340 to 380 BGN. When they suggested it in their motives, I see it here at the bottom of the room, you know what he said? I emphasize? Politics we do! This increase is 40 BGN. is a policy for promoting birth rates and reconciliation of personal and family life. And what do we do, ladies and gentlemen ruling, three years later, with the same amount of compensation? I want to take back the years when the compensation for raising a child between the first and second years was at least equal to the minimum wage, so that the mother can adequately ultimately take over the child's raising normally. And you, the ruling gentlemen, across the street, I know what you're going to say to me: well, this is an opportunity to encourage mothers to get back to work early! Well, how do they get back to work, ladies and gentlemen of the government, when there's not enough seats in large cities in kindergartens and mothers are forced to sit at home? When you enable all Bulgarian children, access to kindergartens, and make them free of charge, then I think we can look for other measures, but I also think that you should support this proposal of ours to increase the cost share precisely related to the compensation for raising a child between the first and the second year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u298	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 174 MPs: 82, against 49, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 6, supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: 100 against 67 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u299	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u300	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 7, supported by the Commission. Vote 167 MPs: for 103, against 62, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u301	Under art. 8 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) the following amendments shall be made to the table: - on line I. "Accounts and transfers' is replaced by "4 164 769,9" by "4 757 630,03'; - in row 5 - Additional transfers received from the central/state budget in order to cover the amount needed to cover the amount of the funds; the number 2. In para. 3: - in row "Deficit (-), the surplus' is replaced by the number "Deficit 4 033 237,5'; - in row "Division The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u302	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 171 MPs: for 80, against 69, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 8 supported by the Commission. Vote 179 MPs: 104 against 66 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u303	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, p. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the number 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the number 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Irena Dimova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, p. 3 the number The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. The following amounts of monthly social security income for 2020 shall be determined: 1. minimum monthly amount of insurance income during the calendar year of basic economic activities and qualification groups of professions pursuant to Annex No 1; 2. minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for self-insuring persons - BGN 610• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. maximum monthly amount of the insurance income.. 3000 BGN..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u304	Statements? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u305	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I will take into account our proposal for an increase in maximum social security income and minimum wage. Firstly, I will start with this, of course, that I question that the current Bill on the budget of state social security for 2020 meets our expectations and the needs of Bulgarian citizens. Since 2000, since the introduction of the maximum insurance income, it has been growing annually, except for the periods in which you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling party, are ruling. In 2009 it was frozen at BGN 2000. At the 2008 level, and so until 2013, when it became BGN 2200. An increase of 2,400 BGN followed. with the government with Prime Minister Oresharski and again, when you manage, freeze at level 2600 BGN. until 2018, as your initial idea under your Management Programme is to remain that way until the end of the term of office. Of course, with last year's budget you decided to increase the maximum insurance income for all insured persons to 3000 BGN, which is a step, albeit insufficient, in the right direction. Although you have matured hard for this step, it was still unmotivated and unfounded because it was taken without serious debates on it with the social partners. You would hardly object that the very lag of maximum insurance income leads to an unfair restriction on the access of insured persons to compensation. We believe that it is fair that the maximum insurance income should be increased, as is our proposal, at least 3900 BGN. This significant increase will eliminate a traditional injustice for our society, namely high-income groups to benefit at the expense of low-income groups. With regard to the minimum wage, we offer a model for its calculation based on the rate of increase of the average wage and the gross added value of a man-hour, adjusted by a factor taking into account the regional imbalances in the development of our economy. On the basis of this model we propose the minimum wage in 2020 to be 650 BGN. Its increase, as well as the increase in maximum social security income, will further increase the revenue in the budget of the DEA, with which we will be able to take a more serious step in reforms in the social sector in the part of the Pancy, which we have been talking about for a long time today. These proposals are well-founded and really necessary. If you reject them just because they are proposed by the opposition, it will not be disproportionate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u306	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gokov, if you'd like to make a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u307	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With art. 9 management shows insurance policies that will follow next year, and these are minimum insurance thresholds, minimum social security income for self-insuring persons and maximum monthly social security income. With regard to the increase of minimum insurance income for farmers, as proposed initially from 300 BGN. At £610, I don't think we can agree with him. I take the occasion that a reasonable proposal of 420 BGN was adopted, to withdraw the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Our offer was 450 BGN, but 420 BGN. It's more appropriate. The importers' motives are clear about increasing the minimum social security threshold for those people with minimum wage. This year, the proposal is not accompanied by estimates or analysis of how it affected, on the one hand, last year's increase in funds and, on the other hand, farmers, and it is unlikely that the increase will lead to their goal of retiring to receive a slightly more normal salary. In more detail, I'd like to think about this. 3 and for raising the amount of maximum social income, you are taking serious criticism. I have no logical explanation for why you're doing this to stubbornness and what you're after with this freezing. I appreciate it as a curtsy to the high income groups of Bulgarians and pressure on the low income groups. Justice, solidarity and care for people with low incomes around the poverty threshold require to raise the maximum insurance income even if the increase does not amount to 10 minimum wages, as are the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation, it at least has the increase of the minimum wage for a country that is up from 560 BGN. 610 BGN, or increase to 8,93 percent. Madam Minister, I am only addressing you: monitor the process with maximum insurance income, because sooner or later, if you want to make social policy, you will have to raise this social income in the sense that it is not normal to treat people who receive very high salaries at the expense of low pensions. I'll try to tell you a few facts about maximum social security income and some comparisons, hopefully I'll have enough time. The minimum wage from 2008 to 2020 increased from 240 BGN. 610 BGN, i.e. 370 BGN, or 154,17%. It's for the minimum wage. The average insurance income from 2008 to 2020 increased from BGN 464,52. 1063 BGN, i.e. 598.48 BGN, or 128.84%. We come to the question: why then the maximum insurance income from 2008 to 2020 increased from BGN 2000. 3,000 BGN, which means only 1,000 BGN, or only 50%? In 2008, the maximum social security income was 8,33 times higher than the minimum wage and 4.3 times higher than the average social security income. For 2020, the maximum insurance income is only 4,92 times higher than the minimum wage and 2,82 times higher than the average social security income, nothing in common with the figures set out at the beginning of the model, the maximum social security income being ten minimum wages. At that time, the pension ceiling was set at 35% of the maximum social security income, and today it is 40%, but at the expense of this silently abandoned the rule by which the maximum pension limit was suspended for pensions granted after the end of 2009 and then dropped for newly released pensions, but last year it became clear that this ceiling would remain forever. In this case, our proposal is to increase the maximum insurance income from 3000 BGN. At 3,900 leva. This is, of course, not enough increase, but it is a step towards justice and its gradual withdrawal. This will cause an increase in the maximum amount of pensions to BGN 1560 in which there is nothing scary. He's got the means to pay off the pensions, and we've told us where that money's gonna come from. I will tell you, Madam Minister, that sooner or later, keeping the maximum social security income at low levels in this way, I realized that it will only be about three times greater than the average social security income, you will suddenly have to increase it very seriously and then people will be in a lot of pain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u308	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Klisurska, and then there's Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u309	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My comment is in art. 9, first, and it's going to be related to t. 1 of our proposed budget. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the minimum monthly amount of insurance income shall be offered during the calendar year on basic economic activities and qualification groups and professions as set out in Annex 1. Dear Minister, this is a universal instrument. The budget deficit of state social security is not that high, because in your hands it is... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u310	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u311	...the negotiation of precisely these minimum dimensions in basic economic activities. If we look at what is happening now with Annex 1, we will see that the increase is only close to the minimum wage or 741 positions remain at these levels. The increase is 5.4%, given that we are currently talking about much higher increases. This shows indecisiveness in the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for more revenue and is a mechanism for lightening income. One sentence I'll also say about the maximum insurance income. The International Labour Organisation has adopted a universal instrument "If the minimum wage grows, the maximum social income is also increased to contribute everyone to the social security system based on what they receive. That's what's fair. The sense of justice will only be felt when our proposal is accepted, and it is related to an increase of maximum insurance income to BGN 3900. I will repeat that over 110 thousand people in Bulgaria receive incomes of over 3000 BGN. Is it fair that they do not import into the insurance system or only import up to 3000 BGN?? In the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy it is to address these issues adequately and against European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u312	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Guys, there's a lot of noise in the room. Please keep the conversations you're having quiet! Are there lines? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u313	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Each Budget Act is for the National Health Insurance Fund, whether it is for state social security or for the big budget, is a policy-making tool. It provides the means for these policies and in the numbers written inside these budgets, it clearly sees the policy and aspirations and the care of the individual layers of the population. It is in these numbers that are our differences. When we offer 650 leva. minimum monthly amount of insurance income for self-insuring persons, this is related to our proposal, and it is, of course, for a minimum salary of 650 BGN. Something that you can't somehow accept, because for you the poor are poor and must remain poor. There is no point in looking for any way to increase their income, there is no point in looking for how people who work for the poor, become normal European citizens, and that is naturally your policy. When we talk about the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income of BGN 3,900, for us this is a first step for restoring justice. I have a personal opinion: normal development in normal and social countries, if you look at them, you will see that there is no ceiling of maximum social income. Let's say we gradually have to get there, not stay in one place and stuff 3,000 levs. By voting this time for this point, remember that you are all in conflict of interest because you receive more than 3000 leva. and in the end you vote on paying less social contributions, so let's still be a little more socially oriented. We offer the way to increase incomes in public insurance so that we can cover those of our proposals, which you will see later on both for motherhood and for children's and for unemployment, and so on, because when there is more income, naturally, there is more possibility of distribution, more social sensitivity and social sensitivity, something for which you are deaf and insensitive, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u314	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u315	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, here may be the most important division between left and right. It is good to think about it and hear your arguments why you do not want to increase the maximum insurance income. After all, more and more people are getting over 3000 leva. Or, in fact, they're 100,000 people. Directly these people are being protected and we do not want to in any way increase their security burden in quotes, because this is their contribution at the expense of the other approximately 2 million. 900,000 people. It is quite normal for one person, when receiving more income, to actually provide a larger amount. I think that only once in the last 10 years GERB dared to raise the maximum insurance income by 200 BGN. And you see there's no problem at all. Here is an example showing how there can be additional revenue in the budget of state social security. After all, we are also those who receive wages and income over those who are taxed, and I do not understand why we should not be taxed on what we receive. The big question is, why don't we? Why are people running away from this thing? Colleagues, they just don't trust the retirement model. That's the reason. If we ensure that this person in the future has a high pension to meet his social security contributions, then people will say: well, let us really be clean, clean and secure at a greater amount. However, at the moment we say: no, not the one who takes 5000 BGN is provided at 3000 BGN, and the one who takes 3,200 BGN is also 3,000, but the one who is at 2,900 BGN must at all costs really be provided at the maximum insurance income. I really think that your thinking is getting older and it is good if we want to make some contribution and show people to be correct about the insurance system, we also need to show that the state and also the system itself must be correct to these people. Only you say no, we stay at 3,000 leva. Why? Who are we protecting? Once again, one is 100,000 people and the other is 2 million and 900,000. What's that 100,000 and what's that 2 million and 900,000? Let us really make our contribution to the insurance system and increase this contribution. Yes, of course this will also be tied to the maximum pension. I think there are people who, in turn, have been correct about the insurance system and expect to have a greater pension. Let these people be empathised and not only to those who have not been correct about the social security system, but we see the great roaring about how the pension should be raised on them. There is nothing wrong, of course, that there is no dispute here that pensions are low, that they should receive a larger amount, but at the same time let us also look at the contribution of these people. So if we really want there to be more revenue in state social security, personally for us from the left in greater justice, all the more so that justice is for themselves, then we really need to raise the maximum social income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u316	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u317	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoinev, this discussion is really interesting from the point of view that every year, when we accept the budget of state social security, you are offering higher and higher levels of maximum social income. Indeed, this is a clash between left and right liberal policies. The difference between one and the other and the third approach is definitely different. What are you suggesting right now? You're offering an increase by how much? £900. By multiplying £900. For one person at 31.8%, as much as the insurance burden? It means BGN 27. Twenty-seven leva. You will increase the burden of insurance to whom? To the high income groups? Who are the high income groups, ladies and gentlemen of the House? Those who have higher qualifications, IT specialists, doctors and so on, do not list all categories. They have made efforts for their qualifications. They have made efforts for their education, and suddenly we oblige them with your proposal not only to be solidarity, but to be super-solidar. I am not convinced that with 110 thousand people we will solve the problems of state social security. That 110 grand you're talking about getting over 3,000. BGN, what we say to them: we increase your insurance burden, that you are highly qualified, that you are highly educated and so on. And what we say to others: You do not provide yourself on real income, hide, because in Bulgaria the grey sector is over 30%. With this proposal, we will necessarily increase the grey sector. What's gonna happen? It will happen that, with the money saved for the maximum insurance income, we will stimulate those who hide insurance incomes. Well, that kind of super-justice irritates the feeling of hypersensitivity. People are very sensitive about this subject. If we approach this problem balancedly, we will see that the burden in the insurance system must be balanced, it must be distributed to both high income and medium income and minimum income. Everyone has to make their own contribution. Otherwise, the formula for calculating the maximum amount, which was adopted under some strange circumstances - 35%, and now 40% of the maximum insurance income - is a formula and has nothing to do with the principles of social security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u318	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Another line? I can't see. Mr. Stoynev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u319	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Dr. Ademov, when this insurance model was adopted in 2000 with the assistance of the World Bank, as I recall, the maximum social security income had to be equal to 10 minimum wages and in order to be sustainable this model. That was the proposal. At the moment we see that there is a shortage and we are pressing the burden to fall on low income groups. In no case can I agree with you that we burden the wealthier people, the educated ones. They de facto contribute because in the future they will receive a substitute income of the present. So in no case does that money from them go as a gift to anyone else. That money comes back to them as soon as they retire. There is absolutely nothing wrong with this, but at the same time these 100,000 people are not solidarity, like the other 2,900 million Bulgarians. It's just that we on the left say that this isn't fair to us. You are looking for a solution to problems and looking for revenue, that is how these revenues can enter the system and at the same time people in the future know that thanks to their contribution will receive higher pensions. Otherwise, at the moment, I say again, trust is the key for a system to last. When people do not believe that they will receive high pensions in the future, they have no incentive to provide, agree. If we decide to go to the third pillar, we need a debate here. We see we have a problem with the second pillar. We are silent, we are silent, but we know that this is a time bomb, which sooner or later, Madam Minister, I hope it is not with you or delayed, but this is a big problem. The second pillar, colleagues, is key. People start to take a second pension of 35 BGN, but in the end there is no way, again I say, these people, for being educated, investing in their education is nothing wrong with that, but in the future these people are normal to receive high pensions as well. Thus, what you are doing right now, you say to them: hide income, do not provide yourself, in the future you will have low pensions, so deal with yourself. We just want a clean model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u320	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 203 MPs: 97 against 55, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 202 MPs: for 80, against 72, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 9 on the Commission report. Vote 204 MPs: 106, against 78, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u321	Under art. 10 has a proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova: ................................................................................... Art. 10 is amended as follows: Art. 10. The following minimum amount of pension shall be determined for insurance and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code for 2020 BGN 300 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. From 1 January to 31 December The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10, t. 2 the number The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the number 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. The following minimum amount of pension shall be determined for insurance and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code for 2020: 1. from 1 January to 30 June• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. from 1 July to 31 December
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u322	Mr. Gokov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With art. 10 contributors of the budget try to raise the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code for next 2020. I will, first, declare that I will support both proposals and 250 BGN, and 300 BGN. I will support as an increase in the minimum pension, I will only explain why the BSP did not make in its proposal such an increase in the minimum pension. Because we believe that the increase in only the minimum pension, without subsequent differentiation with the other pensions, does not contribute to improving the level of pensions paid, but only to further loss of trust in the pension system. I would like to ask the importers and those who then agreed, after coalition talks and agreements, to raise the minimum pension to BGN 250. My first question is: have you done an analysis of how the previous pension system affected the previous pension raising, just the minimum pension, how did you do this lifting when you all agreed, and didn't change the revenue-loss part of the budget? Do you think that's 250 leva? meet your initial promises of BGN 300. Retirement? Perhaps the colleagues who made the proposals for 300 BGN. The pension of Milko Nedyalkov and Krastina Taskova mean exactly that you promised 300 BGN. and do it. This promise will weigh you like a stone until the end of the term, so consider whether or not to support our proposal for 300 levs, which we have made. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] I do not know what I should be ashamed of when I tell you the truth and that I said that I would support the raising of the minimum pension with the only reason that we cannot hold so many Bulgarians, they are close to 700 However, my question to you is: yes, we will support you for 250 BGN, but why do you not support the subsequent differentiation of all pensions? I'm not even talking about recalculating pensions. I give, for example, that you mechanically increase the minimum pension by a higher percentage than any other pension. Why don't we increase all the pensions by the percentage you're offering? You're about to give the rest of the pensioners a breath of air, not just those who get the minimum pension, and you'll be happy with the people. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u324	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Mrs. Taskova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u325	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Gokov, I hope that by saying: I will personally support the proposal for 300 BGN. You said it on behalf of the entire BSP parliamentary group. I want to assure you that we have not made the proposal just to weigh as a millstone of the group of the United Patriarchs. We made it one to one as their promise, because we are convinced that it is the only way to get them to vote for their own promise. Otherwise we realize completely and consciously that this is small money as a minimum pension for the Bulgarian pensioners. So right now, fellow Patriots, you are still calling yourself Patriots, despite your total disintegration, I urge you to support your own proposal. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u326	That's not a line, that's a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u327	We of the Will will support our submission of your proposal... [[Replications from OP.]] BSP will support the proposal and there is a real chance that you will remain in history as a fulfilled promise. Otherwise, you promise pensions, and people...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u328	Mrs. Taskov, let the line be to Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u329	...get paid planes. So, Mr. Gokov, my line is to you... thank you for supporting our proposal. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u330	Second line? I can't see. Here you go, for the coat, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Taskova, when I said I will personally support this proposal, the entire parliamentary group will support your proposal. I'm glad you made the offer. The same proposal was made by colleague Milko Nedyalkov, so do not doubt that we will support him. I just want to get one thing straight. You said I told you to weigh on the United Patriarchs. I said that I would welcome your proposal and Milko Nedyalkov's, so that it would not weigh on the Patriots their promise, just to fulfill it. It's really little money to raise pensions, but it's still some kind of gesture to these people. However, all who now support increasing the minimum pension to 250 BGN. or 300 BGN, including I turn to the United Patriarchs, who support the proposal for 250 BGN. [[SIGHS]] It's nice to think about...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u332	Don't look at us. Your band's over there!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u333	Please! Mr. Angelov, please! [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Please! Go on, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Angelov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u334	If you can't make a remark, punish him at least.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u335	I'm not punishing anyone today. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u336	I'm moving on. I'm addressing you, Ms. Taskova, and your entire parliamentary group. I also address the United Patriarchs...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u337	And to the whole room, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u338	To the entire hall and to all those who support the minimum pension of 250 BGN. Or 300 leva. I appeal to them: to support and recalculate pensions, or at least increase all pensions by the same percentage as you increase the minimum pension, and not just by 6.7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u339	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Shopov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u340	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! When is the next time, except now? Why now? Because we are voting on the third budget in the mandate of this National Assembly. The fourth remains, but it will apply for two, three, four months from the term of office of the next meeting. It is high time we kept the promise we made from the United Patriarchs to enter into power. And this promise was articulated, it was specified at 300 leva. No more, no less at the end of the term of office. And now we're making a budget for the end of the term. It makes perfect sense for us at Ataka to want the minimum pension to become BGN 300. Since 2005, since the attack on the political scene, we have been talking constantly: the incomes, incomes, incomes and the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. Raising the minimum pension means raising all the incomes of Bulgarian citizens, not just pensions. Because the pension base is being raised and hence all the incomes of Bulgarian citizens, which is crucial, which is the most important for our future development. And I say, "Why not now?" We're straight A's, right? We collect a lot of government debts, don't we? Don't you think there's a billion dollars in the coffers that we're digging through trash cans and fighting almost the cigarette benderols? Aren't we NATO high-level valedictorians with a high rate of military spending? In fact, we're in second place. We received a commendation for this from President Trump. There's money, colleagues. We have money to give up these higher pensions. And as governors, you see, we don't blindly support the cabinet. With this proposal we support it because for the government, for Borisov, for you colleagues from GERB, if you listen to us, it will bring you support among the Bulgarian people. It will not bring you support to maintain the level of consumption and lifestyle at this miserable level at which it is today. Colleagues, today we have tried to correct you with regard to the Minister of Labour and Social Services. You didn't listen. We were principled and took care of the management again because we decided and because we warned you that you would have problems. Well, you'll wear them, you'll draw them! And now we warn you that if you do not do this, if you do not accept this proposal for 300 BGN, you will not justify the trust of Bulgarian citizens. That's it. That's logic. From now on, we'll be judging by what we're going to do for the last one or two years, with the last one or two budgets. Yes, so far something has been done in this direction, but it is absolutely not enough. I will also call on the opposition, and those of the government who listen to these words of ours to do this action, to do everything possible in this debate, because in fact this article. 10 is the key to today's debate... Whatever we do, no matter how much money from nine rivers we bring into the social security budget, but we don't raise the amount of pensions dramatically, we won't do anything. That's why the debate under art. 10 is the life of today's sitting, the consideration of today's issue. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yes, Madam President, you remind me that time is up. Unfortunately, I can't talk anymore. There are many aspects, but so did you from GERB, I can speak as an independent MP only up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u342	The new, deep aspects... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u343	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. You'll have an opportunity in the back of your head to develop your thesis. Here you go, Mr. Genov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u344	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Shopov, you were very right in your speech. You are right that this is indeed the last vote in this term on a full budget of this government. And with that promise for 300 BGN, with which the governors again made several loops and flipped the Bulgarian people, perhaps you will raise the amount next year when the budget is voted for the first three months. Mr. Shopov, let me remind you that the increase is from July 1st and is only BGN 250. I call on you, let us continue the fight, not to disappoint the voters who voted not for us, but for those who promised them 300 BGN, and with their actions and with our vote in this House, not to let their constituents be disappointed. I can predict the next move: in the budget next year it may be 300 leva to see these people that we are responsible that we owe... But all we have to do is give them a budget statement on how to spend that money, whether to pay for the electricity, whether to pay for the drugs, whether to pay for the water. So, Mr. Shopov, take a note of those things I told you, and don't be so optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u345	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Taskova, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u346	Dear Mr. Shopov, since you made the clarification that with the support of 300 leva. a pension you actually support the government, and not our proposal, I would like to make the clarification to you that we are actually trying to support the really miserable pensioners, because we have some tickets for 210 BGN per day coming to us every day. This is insane! If most of the ladies here in the National Assembly make an account, maybe that's what they spend on haircuts a month. Thank you for your support for our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. And now Mr. Gokov for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u348	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Shopov, I'm making a line for you just to clarify something. You said they would eventually raise the minimum pension to 300 leva. from next year and will pay only the first two or three months, and the next majority and the next government... It won't be like that, Mr. Shopov, because you now, if you notice in the proposal £250. minimum wage, or 300 leva. It's July 1st! So they promise people and continue to lie to them that they will raise 300 levs, but they will not lift them because they will not pay them, but someone else will pay them. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Mr. Shopov, also tell these people that no matter how much they call out of the room, they will come out and explain why they will not support their own proposal for 300 levs. That's to explain. It'll stay in the air to hang their offer and yelling won't make it any less a lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u349	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Shopov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u350	Dear colleagues! Mr. Genov, we have started this fight in 2005 to increase pensions, to increase the incomes of Bulgarian citizens. I urged you at this stage to fight all together, including from GERB, and from the government, to have a face after a year and a half, when we get out of this Parliament, to say that we have done for the first time something very, very important for the Bulgarians. Mrs. Taskov, yes, she is yours, we confess, she honors you with this offer you have made. We're pleading for him right now, that's what we're fighting for. But let me remind you that this proposal would have entered the plenary on a completely different basis. It would have been supported by the Budget Financial Commission. You know why, because two votes of our representatives from Ataka in the Budget-Financial Commission were not respected. A far-reaching violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you, colleagues from the BSP, have somehow been silent about. Another would be if this proposal of the Volika, which Ms. Takova spoke of, was supported by the number of votes that were due, which meant a majority in the Budget Financial Commission. So what we're fighting and pleading here right now, I hope it triggers a very serious debate. To get these from GERB to say whether they agree to become the pension 300 BGN.? When's that gonna happen?! There are people here who have the expertise, have the level, have the political level in the hierarchy of their party to answer these questions. It's all a matter of political will, colleagues. Do we wish the incomes of Bulgarian citizens to be dramatically increased, which is contrary, of course, to the liberals in Bulgaria, for whom such a drastic increase has always been taboo and they have always struggled not to do so?! This is not the question here, as they spoke left and right, but it is a question that has other coordinates, other dimensions. It is far more ideological and than anyone from the vote that is to come in the Chamber in a moment will show on which side of the barricade stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u351	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u352	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I just want to clarify my proposal, as logic and as a request for further thinking about one of those thresholds that we have in the pension system, the threshold for minimum pension for internship and age under art. 68. I propose that from 1 January 2020 the minimum pension for serviced time and internship should be 250 BGN, from 1 June 2020 it will become 300 BGN, and next year the minimum pension in Bulgaria to pursue the minimum poverty threshold for the previous year. If you have noticed, we have thought this through well in the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I have made this proposal myself, which is to be the lower base where pensions are revalued and the lower base is bound by the poverty threshold for the previous year. Here, in your speeches, many of you have said that this is one of the formulas for combating poverty. In this way, this will be linked to the poverty threshold and will give the real idea that from now on, people who have worked hard who have years of service cannot fall lower in the pension system. Support this proposal. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u353	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u354	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! With some joy we observe the hysteria which is implemented every time in the Chamber by our opponents when it comes to the minimum pension. Yes, there is a political power in this House that is consistently trying to defend the interests of Bulgarian pensioners and this political power is said by the United patriots. [[Shouting and partial applause from OP.]] We are in principle the only political force that has consistently tried and managed to change the attitude towards income in the country at all. You see that in the third year between 10% and 12% the incomes in the country are growing, the minimum wage is increasing and all this brings out much of your arguments in this dispute. And we get to the minimum pension. I know that there are no retards among you, so I know that you are doing it for one reason only, in order to distort the facts and generate an evil propaganda. The theme with the three hundred leva raised it as a coalition "United Patriarchs" - unfortunately, however, neither we, nor you, ladies and gentlemen of BSP, won the elections. If you had done your job, if you had won the election, maybe you and I would have agreed not at 300 BGN, but at 500 BGN. a minimum pension, only I doubt it, because a few months before the elections you technically blamed such a proposal. The only possible management option was between GERB and the United Patriarchs and we hold on to these contracts that we made with our colleagues from GERB. They were 200 leva. minimum pension and recalculation of old pensions with average social security income for 2019 Today we have achieved something extraordinary, thanks precisely to good revenue. We achieved not 234 BGN, but we achieved 250 BGN after a very difficult conversation with GERB, as the conversation was difficult in the creation of the coalition, because on all other policies we managed to understand each other. In fact, our concern for the destitute pensioners, for pensioner poverty, was something that took the most time because of the fact that we came from different positions. The insurance contribution is what is important for GERB, for us is important the social element. But then I remember that Mr. Volen Siderov agreed to 180 leva. I am saying this because I was in the negotiating team: "Ama, where are you going to do it? Go ahead, we'll lose control. Give me 180 leva. ▪ No, we did not agree to 180 leva. We fought as hard as we could. We have so much strength and our constituents will judge us better than you, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, from the Political Party Volya, the Political Party, which never made a single proposal in this direction. We from IMRO and NFSB are the ones who are asking questions and trying to solve them. Perhaps we are not the best in these efforts, but I really believe that by the end of the term, thanks to good economic growth and the richness of the Bulgarians, we will be able to achieve this result of 300 BGN. For this, however, we will hope for the partnership understanding of our colleagues from GERB, rather than twisting their hands, blackmailing them and putting them to an end by voting on proposals from other political forces. So I can say: we vote 250 BGN. a minimum pension with one great satisfaction, because this value is also being shared by other political forces. By the way, I hope that all those who are now so zealous will support us in the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Interests of the Elderly people, where we take precisely the approach that GERB see as a very attractive approach to the fact that the Social Assistance (Social Assistance) must erase the difference between the minimum pension and between the poverty line. If this law is passed, then each pensioner, drawing no longer from the funds of the Social Security, where we want to have some comparableness, but from the social system, will be able to guarantee his decent old age. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause and applause from OP. Replies from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u355	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. First line, second line, there's a lot going on! There's lines, dots, and only after that in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u356	Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Veselinov, it is a pity of this high tribune to call the care of the poorest part, as you said in your speech just now, by the Bulgarian people. It is ugly to pronounce this word when several political forces raise the question that a large part of the Bulgarian people will crawl out of the misery they find themselves in. Agreeing with those 250 BGN, which voters do you serve?! We didn't win the election and people didn't believe us! Well, let them believe us now with those 250 levs, and let's see what happens next year, March next year! [[Replications from OP.]] That's right, next year. And remind you: promises are easy to make. One man had said: "It is a man's promise, it is human to lie. " - But to fulfill the promise in our case here, in this Chamber, and in these votes it is called political will. Some people must be missing this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u357	Thank you. Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, there may not be a reasonable person in the hall who does not want to come to this stand and express his emotions from what Mr. Veselinov heard, but since the lines are only three, I will try to represent what we of the Vola want to say: Mr. Veselinov, I really cannot understand how it is possible to call retarded people who dare and claim that Bulgarian pensioners in Bulgaria should take at least 300 leva. Retirement?! And if you continue to be called patriots from now on, definitely never, in any way do I want to be related to that word. That is why we were forced to be baptized parents. [[Shouting from OP.]] How can you claim that you are the only ones who protect the interests of Bulgarian pensioners?! With respect to the institution, with respect to you all colleagues, with respect to all Bulgarian voters, I cannot repeat the words I heard from him. However, this is true political hypocrisy! You can't claim for yourself that you care about the Bulgarian pensioner and not support your own promise, which is why today you have the comfort of standing on that chair there. I'm sorry, Mr. Vesselinoff, shame on you! And in the back, apologize! [[Applause from the will.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u359	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Shopov. You raised your hand? You're giving up. Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Dear Mr. Veselinov, can you tell me what part of this 250 leva. are as a contribution and what part are they as a subsidy? This amount is financed at the expense of increased debt to the budget of state social security. Currently, the transfer from the state budget to the state social security budget for next year is increasing by 200 million. $200 million goes up! And part of the increase in this transfer is precisely the increase in the minimum pension for internship and age. Moreover, can you tell me this difference of 80 million between 234 BGN, a proposal from the Council of Ministers, and 250 BGN, a proposal from the Commission and your proposal, where does this 80 million have as revenue in the budget?! There is a Public Finance Act in which it is clearly and categorically stated that we cannot accept proposals that are not linked to revenue. This is a valid text from the Public Finance Act. Can the National Assembly adopt a text... it is further in the proposals, you will see it, which text says something absolutely Jesuit? What do I mean? This text says that in the course of the implementation of the budget of state social security will be found this money! What do you mean?! I don't mind, because it's a political decision. This is the decision of your majority. Two hundred and fifty leva! Always the minimum and maximum amount of pension is a political decision. That's what the Budget Act says.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u361	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u362	I'm done, I'm done! So think about it with this proposal, do you violate the Public Finance Act?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u363	Thank you. Hole, Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u364	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll start with an answer to Mr. Genov. Mr. Genov, we do not agree to this increase. Not to make promises for many, to blow up another balloon. We were able to do and will be able to do, and with your votes, by the way, the minimum pension 250 BGN. Let us remember that when the mandate of this government began, it was 160 and that now it would not be 200 BGN if the minimum had to go along the line of normal indexing. We did it precisely because we care about Bulgarian pensioners. Because if you had the political will you were talking about, in 2016, we would have solved it when Parliament left and when you expected to rule. Then you didn't want to have such a minimum pension because you had to pay it your management. I also remind you that during Oresharski's time you could have taken these revolutionary steps in the pension system, but you didn't. With regard to Ms. Taskova, I said that I do not believe that you are retarded. After the doppelganger, though, I doubt if I'm wrong. [[Elevator bell dings]] But in any case, I believe that what you have as a thesis comes only from the desire to make cheap political PR and propaganda against the political power that we represent. For the relationship between contribution and subsidy, I dare say that it would have been much easier to calculate if you had not picked farmers for another year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u365	There's 14 million!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u366	For another year, you don't distort the pension model. Let me point out, Mr. Ademov, that we actually benefit your constituents as well. Only we don't share them because misery doesn't divide. There are no voters of the DPS and of the United Patriarchs and we are trying to take care of all Bulgarian pensioners. That's what I'm trying to tell you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u367	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Chukolov, a statement. Mr. Atalay, I'll give you the floor after that. Excuse me, that's how I recorded it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u368	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u369	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. A statement, Mr. Zarkov, after Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, not doing procedure for another time is not good to lie from this tribune. Mr. Veselinov has just lied as a representative, you know this neighborhood in Ruse "Selemythea" is said to be where one specific population lives. They lie in an outrageous way. That's exactly what you did, my man. You shouldn't lie like that. Not 180 leva. We insisted on 500 leva. to be the minimum pension! [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] And we've always insisted on it! Such petty, miserable lies just don't use them from this tribune, because you're being ridiculous, and you know it. And you know it! And you know it, and it's written on your forehead. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] So, let me tell you this. Going out here on the stand after you promised and did how many campaigns, and you say that the pension will be 300 levs, and you say here that this will become the pension 300 levs. is a hysteria that's sacrilegious! You don't disown your campaign. [[SIGHS]] You're just denying political life. You have no right to do this. You have no right to do this, Iskrene and honourable fellow Members of the United Patriarchs, who you will be, but you are not patriots. If you're a patriot, you're gonna go out on that stand and say, "Yeah, I want the pension to be 300 leva." I will support this pension to be BGN 300. That's what we're gonna fight for, that's why we promised the voters, so from this tribune... And we'll convince our colleagues that way. [[Reply from OP.]] What you're doing is just unfair, it's a betrayal you're doing. That's as far as the insolence goes to lie and say that someone had dropped the pension claim. This is unacceptable and you should not do it this way. Our proposal, which we actually supported, is that the pension will be at least 300 BGN. Come on, back him up. Come on. Isn't that what we promised? Valerie, don't laugh at me. Isn't that what we promised? [[Laughter]] Valerie, don't laugh at me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u371	Please, Mr. Chukolov, continue your speech on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u372	Is that funny? Is that funny? People who don't have 300 leva. Retirement, it's not funny. Come on, why are you laughing at me? Support the pension now to become 300 leva. Come on, come on. It'll come out. Come on, Valerie, come on. [[Radio.]] You know, I'm actually not moving from this stand until you support the pension to be 300 leva.? [[Radio, laughter.]] Go ahead. Valerie...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u373	Mr. Chukolov, continue the speech, please have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u374	I know I've got two more minutes. I'm standing here waiting for the reaction of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u375	Give them a chance to speak, to give you a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u376	Now I'm looking at their faces, look how pretty they are. Will you support the pension to become 300 BGN, fellow Members of the United Patriarchs? Yeah, no, what? Yeah, no? [[Noise, lines and laughter from OP.]] I've got his name. I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u377	You have a little more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u378	Sparkle, Sparkle, are we going to back this up? [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] Yeah, no? [[crowd cheering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u379	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u380	I am waiting for my colleagues from the United Patriarchs to say: BGN 300. We want a pension, don't we? [[Reply by National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u381	Mr. Chukolov, please use the time according to the Rules, because your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u382	Wait, I've got minutes. Nod something... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Mr. Chairman, I see that the colleagues from "United Patriarchs" do not want to support 300 BGN. to be the pension. You don't want to, do you? [[incomprehensible expression.]] There's no such moment. Mr. President, I will make this request that the vote on this particular point be roll-on. Everyone with their beautiful name to come out and say: I am for, I am against. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Although it is clear to me that the United Patriarchs... [[Laughter]] Valerie, last chance. Wait, I got 20 seconds, Valerie. Tell me, Sparkle! Let's nod, huh? I won't, I won't. Okay. Thank you for your attention, fellow Members. I hope you understand what I have to say. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u383	- What's the line? The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u384	Dear Mr. President, not personally out of respect for me, there is no way we can respect each other here, but ultimately we are obliged to follow the Rules of the National Assembly so that we do not constantly humiliate this institution. I personally felt affected by Mr. Veselinov's backdrop. I will not intentionally confuse his name because it is not at my level to fall so low. [[(Shouting from the O.R.) A line from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov.)]] So once after my line he realized that I'm really I can't use those words... [[Replications from OP.]] What exactly did you call me? [[Reply from OP.]] Ah, retarded because I want 300 leva. pension. I believe that you should have imposed the appropriate penalty.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u385	Thank you. Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u386	In the manner of conduct! Hold on, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u387	Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. I'm looking at you being interrupted in the manner of conduct. We have a call from the group of "United patriots" "Please today, tomorrow and the day after to ban the sale of alcoholic beverages to independent MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament!" [[Applause from OP.]] We cannot allow it, and I believe that the leadership of the National Assembly cannot allow...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u388	I understand what you're saying, Mr. Angelov. Thank you. We can move on. You have the floor, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, although at my humble age, I dare say that I have been in this House since 2013. I have been involved in several types of calls since 2013, always on the topic of "Pensions." The theme "Pancy," regardless of which government is in power, has always been very appetizing and there have always been violent debates in this plenary. Regardless of size, it's not a market, it's not like we can bid on a pound of tomatoes, but we have to think about a very simple thing... this is a signal to our entire society that there is a problem in the system. Mr. Ademov has tried to pay attention several times all these years and quite clearly asks the question: you know, you know, you know? To show it to you, the problem with this system is that it's like a vise. We lock the floor, we lift the floor, we hold the ceiling, everything in the middle is flattened. Practical underfinancing is half the system, 49% of the system comes from VAT, other taxes and revenues from the central budget. Obviously, there is a problem in this system. My speech is directed not at who will take the greater credit, will hit the chest and say: we on the left, we on the right, we Patriots or we non-Patriots, or whoever it is, have greater merit. We need to understand one thing as Bulgarian MPs we have a problem in the pension system and this problem will blow up. Sooner or later, he's gonna blow himself up. We all need to think about how we're overcoming this blast inside the system. We are talking about a system of 12 billion, which represents almost 10% of the country's gross domestic product. We are talking about a system in which 2.3 million people are users at the moment, which is on the scale and supported by those who work. We must stop this political talk because we prove to be extremely good tactics to survive day by day. The question here is: how will the state survive in the next 10 years and not how will one party or another survive in the next year, two, three, four? We must have a longer horizon... the state and our people do not deserve to think about it from year to two, to three. Perhaps the time has come for all of us to gather together with the people and try to have this conversation about a change in this system and try to reach consensus. Because believe me, this is gonna come one day and it's gonna blow. It's gonna blow up in our faces, blow up the people we care about, we love those who are with us every day, the ones we were born here for because of their graves and the swings of the next after us. What are we going to do about the left, the right, the nationalists, the non-nationalists? No, the problem is inside us and we see it every day in the mirror. The problem is us until we realize there's a problem and until we decide that it's time to make a cardinal decision. Not to use it as a topic of attack on one side of the room. After all, the power is within us. Regardless of today's vote, I call on you to find a common language all, and not only in Parliament, because this is a debate for the whole society, let us sit down and resolve it. Otherwise, we'll keep going the same way until this blows us up. Once again, who will be guilty, who will take the consequences? Us. We are users of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u390	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Alexandrov, I agree with this peacekeeping tone that you have tried to introduce here, from this tribune. Only the truth is quite, quite different. You said: let's sit down and think. We think more than three years.. four, five years back in time. For more than four years, colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" have made some promises. They then fail to fulfill them with various verbal equilibristics here. So the time is not for thinking. The time here is for action. In other words, mathematically we have currently a majority of Bulgarian citizens to receive 300 BGN. minimum pension. And maybe here and now, literally in minutes, this thing will become a fact, and all this work depends on the colleagues of the United Patriarchs who made such a promise. Yes, it is true, they did not win the elections, we listened to this last year, and last year, a déjà vu: by the end of the term the minimum pension will become 300 leva. It has also come to the end of the term, the pension will never reach this amount - a minimum pension of 300 BGN. So it's time for action, it's not about thinking anymore. Thinking went way back in time. Now or never can we make the pension 300 BGN because the Bulgarian citizens who gave their lives for the development of Bulgaria, our fathers, our mothers and fathers, grandparents deserve to be able to survive. Colleagues from the United Patriarchs, you said you had no other choice. No, you had a choice! And now you have it. When you negotiate with your partners from GERB, you can clearly and categorically say: or 300 BGN. a minimum pension is what we promised the Bulgarian citizens, or we will not participate in this government. And you still have that choice. Thank you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u392	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll give you my word when I can. - What's the line? There's no second lines. A hole, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Popov, I have sat down and talked to Mrs. Cornelia Nino when he was Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and Mr. Gokov was Vice-President 2013. In 2016, I also attended a meeting with BSP, including in 2013 and Mr. Mihov, as speaker of parliament at the time. [[Reply: "Mihov" or "Mikov"?]] So understand, I'm trying to get out of this political talk. I say that the time of political speaking is yes, there is no way we can get out of it because we are politicians. This room is a political place, here is the place and the clash of these. But I'm telling you, this problem is beyond us, beyond political. This problem is a problem for the whole society. And we, in order to overcome it in the best way possible, must unite at least the majority of society, because when we solve this problem, it must be resolved by consensus and there will be people who will be dissatisfied because they have retreated, little or much. We can't solve it just now with 300 leva. That's why I likened you to the vise system: lifting the floor, keeping the ceiling is a typical vise. We should probably get out of this.. don't get me wrong, since 2013, I also thought like you that we should give more decent income to the people who are using this system... to our mothers and fathers. But over time, I realized, and with my conversations here in the room with representatives of the various parliamentary groups, I realized that our problem is much more serious than the numbers we have in the budget for state social security and that this budget of state social security cannot cure the problem. He may give us some sort of temporary solution, but this temporary decision will blow up sooner or later. And if we want to achieve a lasting solution to benefit from all future generations, if we want to restore trust in the system, it won't become a piece, it won't be here, it won't be today. It'll probably be here, but it won't be today. That was my call. Nothing more, nothing less. That's why I tried to distance myself from absolutely everything. I could have had a wonderful debate politically, blaming one side or the other, but again, we are people, we do it for people and it will always be for people. The point is to figure it out so that it's as effective as possible in the next decades and not in the next year or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u394	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Shopov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u395	Mr. Chairman, then, when we from Ataka come out and talk, you are particularly zealous, very often stopping us, you make comments. A moment ago, I was stopped, and the microphone from Madame Chairman, I couldn't finish my sentence. However, when VMRO and NFSB speak nonsense, frank lies when they are cynical, when they fake events that have happened and are trying to hurt us, you are silent and giving them the opportunity to speak out loud, to pour out to the end. And just a moment ago, Isuren Veselinov said a vicious, cruel, emblematic lie, a black lie...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u396	Be careful, Mr. Shopov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u397	...that Siderov, when he was doing the program, pleaded...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u398	It's not like a MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u399	...remembering BGN 180. See, you're interrupting me what you've always done when I was speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u400	When you speak in a language not inherent to the people's representative.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u401	Because when they see us in this tribune and when we speak truths, they freak out, they freak out and they wonder how to hurt us, how to lie, how to keep poisoning. And you saw: this money we want at the moment, the 300 leva, I witnessed many of the negotiations: with three hundred dawns Siderov imposed them in the Program. That's the truth, and everyone needs to know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u402	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. No comment. Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for finally having my turn. My fellow Members, I have tried several times to take the floor, to calm the heated situation in this House, because it is not my topic, I do not deal with the budget of the NSI, I deal in these 23 years and something in Parliament in a completely different direction. But today I am witnessing those events that have happened during these years in this Chamber, and I do not know if there are imbeciles, but there are very quickly forgetting MPs, and there are whole political formations. The problem we are dealing with today is neither for alcohol to sell you, Mr. Chairman, nor for those who have often visited the villagers...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u404	I don't sell booze and cigarettes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u405	...nor for those who, for one reason or another, are today in a common coalition and running the country. It's the management's problem. The problem, Mr. Alexandrov, is political and this problem with pensions, with the budget of pensioners and minimum pensions, including minimum insurance, and the maximum ceiling, here must be solved, Mr. Alexandrov. This is the place and today is the time. Because for these ten years, the argument when the government came out and said: "We raised the pensions by 100 and I don't know how much leva when we were in charge and we of 60 leva. We reached 160 BGN, we also increased them by 100 BGN, colleagues. However, the system deficit is still continuing, and if we do not find the balance, and if we continue to ask pensioners as much money as the corresponding production has not been produced and these people have not given their contribution in the insurance system, this deficit will go on for many years. First argument. The second argument is: there is no way you can have state-owned enterprises that subsidise 400, 500 million each year in order not to go bankrupt, and at the same time tell me that 100 million And you, in order to concoct to unite and make a government, leave the pensioners again with BGN 219.43. And you want from July to be 250 leva. Colleagues, I remember from this tribune when the so-called Patriots wanted BGN 500. pension, however, had elections next year. This year, next year, there are no elections, you may not want 500 leva. If there were an election next year, I'm sure your demands today would be completely different. You would have twisted the hands of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and he wouldn't have missed the rule of this country, he would have agreed. Colleagues, not only the pension system, and the energy is in the same situation,........tolerating, our economy is in the same system.............................the same situation....... the same situation...... our economy is in the same system................... Everything, colleagues, is taking VAT from our pensioners and VAT from the others, collecting in one hole, where Mr. Goranov and Mr. Prime Minister distribute them by hitting on their chests, say: "We give them away. Dear colleagues, things are very serious. Today at 7:25 p.m., if we still doubt any of us are sober, society is thinking clearly. Today there are no protesters, because the day is such that it is helping those who are single again, it is snowing, so they are not outside. That's why they're not here! Therefore, colleagues, my request is when you make a budget, especially when it comes to our parents who have built a public formation for one reason or another, based from the UDF to GERB... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm done. ...we left them in a state where they didn't even get close to the poverty line, we argue today...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u406	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u407	...pension to be 250 leva...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u408	Mr. Atalay!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u409	Just one suggestion. Therefore, colleagues, I will propose in art. 10, t. 1 from 1 January to 30 June, if you want populism to go even further, the number 219 will be 500 BGN. from 1 January 2020 [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u410	What do you suggest? Are you proposing a replacement, Mr. Atalay? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u411	From 1 January 2020 it shall be BGN 500. I think I'll be in line with the Patriots...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u412	Get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u413	...and all those populists who want this today. Yes, to the point, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u414	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u415	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following minimum amount of the pension shall be determined for insurance and age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code for 2020: p. 1 from 1 January 2020 to be BGN 500, p. Two down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u416	Mr. Atalay, proposals for additions are not put to the vote in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u417	I'll take the liberty of filling in then...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u418	You're essentially making a proposal for replacement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u419	...from January 1st, the number...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u420	However, according to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot put to the vote a proposal to replace the text. [[Noise and lines.]] Check it out, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u421	I offer only 219.43 leva. be replaced by BGN 500.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u422	Well, it's a replacement proposal, I'm telling you again. Okay, I get it. [[Noise and lines.]] A statement? Mr. Yankov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u423	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the debate lasted very long, the speakers were very talkative, considering the texts on future pensions, I take the opportunity to recall facts. Currently, the minimum pension for age and internship is BGN 219.43. For Christmas and New Year over a million and 300,000 Bulgarian pensioners will receive a decision of the Council of Ministers Christmas supplement of 40 BGN because they receive pensions that are below the poverty threshold. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it was proposed in the first version of the budget by the Ministry of Finance and is examined by the Council of Ministers minimum pension to be BGN 234,13. An increase of 6.7%. I remind you, this was the first proposal, and from July 1st it was seven months before the term of this National Assembly expired, of the government of Borisov with all commitments. After that, the meeting with Boyko Borisov in the coalition format reached the proposal 250 BGN. The proposal of Boyko Borissov, ladies and gentlemen - BGN 250 minimum retirement for age and internship! No matter how many MPs from the small partner in Borisov's management explain that they have won the increase of BGN 234.13, I repeat it to know it, not to try to lie through the parliamentary tribune the Bulgarian citizens came to BGN 250. by the Prime Minister. The promise of 300 leva. shall remain imaginary or as a decision for a subsequent term of office. Will Bulgarian citizens decide next term to have Borisov with coalition partners?! I understand the colleagues from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria and IMRO. [[Heckling]] If you fulfill the commitment for 300 leva. pension, you have fulfilled a commitment at the end of your life. If you do not comply with Boyko Borisov, the coalition is falling apart. What you are proposing and will vote on is demagogy, a lie to the Bulgarian voter. You propose seven months before your mandate expires that you have failed to fulfil your commitment, which is a package, a reason for having such a coalition and being in power, on the back of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u424	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Svilensky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will not use words like lie, demagogy, unfulfilled promises. I will try to be calm, to speak quietly, as the Deputy Prime Minister said today, and to try, if I can, a little change of some of you's opinions, the position, because, really, until today, before this debate, so far, these were the political commitments of the United Patriarchs, of the Volya, of the BSP, of the DPS, of GERB, of each political force has its commitments. From the debate that has emerged today, it is already clear to all of us that the problem goes beyond the scope of this House, beyond our political standing, beyond whose proposal it will be accepted whether the BSP, or the United Patriarchs. We are all aware that there is no person in this room who is not aware that 250 and 300 leva. It's nothing, but it's still a sign. They're not that much money for the budget, either. lv. I think if we all get together, we can find that money in the budget. [[Noise and lines.]] I think the government can handle it if they get the support they need. [[Noise and lines.]] I call on you, colleagues, to really forget the insults, to forget who said what until just now and to support the proposal. And so the United Patriarchs will keep their promise because I know that they want to fulfill it, but they are worried about the coalition agreement. Colleagues of GERB, be kind, forgive them that they will support this proposal, support it, and you will support some of you, not all. You will not make a mistake, you will do a good deed ten days before New Year, before Christmas one million and 100 000 Bulgarian pensioners will thank you. There is nothing more important, nothing is more valuable than the thanks of the people to thank you for doing something good. You'll stay in history. Mrs. Sacheva, my request and my appeal is to you. You have a historic chance today to become a hero twice once, when you were elected Minister in the morning, and a second time now, if you support the proposal for 300 BGN. pension. [[Noise and lines.]] I know it's hard, I know there's got to be some kind of negotiation going on, but get out there and support this proposal. Calm down colleagues who are worried that this would bring down some financial system, and really do a good deed before Christmas, before the New Year's celebrations? million and 200,000 Bulgarian citizens will be grateful to us all, believe me, dear colleagues. Mrs. Sacheva, once again, if you must, consult Minister Goranov, if you must, listen to the Prime Minister. Really, if we have to stop for about ten minutes, and do a good deed tonight. Thank you. [[(Noise and lines. (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u426	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u427	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to another aspect of the subject, which I think is highly underestimated. The addressee of pensions are not only the pensioners themselves, on the contrary, the young, the economically active people are also the addressee of this policy, because it is about trust in the system. When a person works, he wants to know that his income is invested wisely and he will one day receive a good income. Then he's inclined to have high trust in this system, to work for this system. The opposite tone is being set and the tone is being set by the state. In these respects, a strong subject, both between a parent and a child, sets the tone of communication. At the moment, the state sets this tone of communication for young, economically active people see that working, one day they are looking at this humiliating income. This creates distrust in the system, and this is what the whole country is suffering from. Therefore, the address is not only the Bulgarian pensioners, on the contrary, the young people, and we need to think about what signal we are sending to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u428	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. Mr. Atalay, may I?! I'd like to consult with you. [[Definitions between the National Representative Ramadan Atalay and the Chairman.]] Colleagues, we're going to vote. [[Replications from the MPs Hristo Prodanov, Philip Popov, Georgi Svilenski to the President.]] Sorry, guys, I'm not doing this because I'm limited by art. 67 of the Staff Regulations. Please refer to. I have my reasons, and we're moving on. [[The National Representative Hristo Prodanov wants the floor.]] I'm voting... Mr. Prodanov, I have already spoken the words. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I put to the vote the unsupported... [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for the floor.]] Guys, I'm not backing down. When I'm right, I won't back down. ...unsupported by the Commission proposal of the National Representative Krastina Taskova. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 208 MPs: 95 against 13, 100 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u429	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a re-voting procedure on the grounds of art. 67 on behalf of our parliamentary group, the way to vote is to stand up from place and roll-call expression the way of the vote, to see how who voted. In accordance with art. 67 On behalf of a group, this may be requested by putting it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u430	Mr. Popov, hold on. We're essentially in a voting procedure. You may suggest that we re-vote a voting text, but I am not convinced that you have the right to change to a voting procedure the way it is voted. [[Relations from the National Representative Philip Popov. Noise and lines.]] We therefore continue to vote in the way we are voting. [[Replications from the MPs Hristo Prodanov, Philip Popov, Georgi Svilenski.]] Procedure? No, I don't agree with you. Only in the manner of conduct, but excuse me, Mr. Prodanov, we already have a voting procedure. I have no reason to give you the floor in the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u431	Dear Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u432	I will give you the right to speak after the vote is over.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u433	Our proposal is that the vote be roll callable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u434	We couldn't agree. I'm going to re-vote. We're going to finish the whole voting process.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u435	The re-voting according to our proposal must be roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u436	You cannot change the voting procedure during a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u437	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u438	The vote will be the way it started.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u439	Mr. Chairman, then my procedure is the way it is. May I?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u440	No! You can do procedure in the manner of conduct after completing the voting procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please let me finish the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Come down, then you can discuss. Revoting! We are revising the proposal of the MP Krastina Taskova. Vote 210 MPs: 97 against 4, abstention 109. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] All procedural questions will be given after the vote is over. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're wrong, gentlemen! I'm moving on. [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] I put to the vote the proposal of the people presented Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, please! [[A group of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are standing around the stands.]] No, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u441	Follow the rules, please! These are separate votes...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u442	No, they're not separate. These are votes... [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] We vote... I'm not explaining. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u443	That's another offer. You break the rules, you break the rules, and at an important time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u444	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u445	Why are you scared? Why are you afraid? Why are you scared? Tell me why you're scared.!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u446	We're in voting mode, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u447	Explain why you're afraid?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u448	I'll take the attitude. According to the regulations, I should have...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u449	All right, kick us out! We're being evicted by the regulations! [[SPEAKING SPANISH]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u450	Okay, before the next vote. Before the next one!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u451	No, no, no! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u452	When do we do this procedure then?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u453	When do we do the procedure? Tell us at what point to do the procedure!?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u454	I'll explain after that. Please sit down! You're wrong! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u455	It has already corrupted this vote. That's already corrupted!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u456	Have all the MPs been able to vote? [[Noise and lines.]] This is the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. [[Around the tribune were gathered MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria and non-members in a parliamentary group.]] Did everyone get a vote? [[Noise and lines.]] Please call off the vote. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u457	Mr. Chairman, procedure! Any vote may take place by roll call. Don't act like you can't hear!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u458	They voted 173 MPs: 43, against 38, abstentioned 92. Colleagues... [[Very loud noise and lines.]] We're in the process of voting, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u459	There was a motion for a roll call. [[(Reply away from the microphones:) There is no such thing! Get off the stage, somebody else lead!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u460	We had to take a roll-call vote before we started the debate. [[Reply: "Procedure! "]] You can't because we're voting right now. [[Strong noise and lines, MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and non-members in PG continue to stand around the stands.]] We are voting on the proposals at the moment and we have already voted on two. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "Procedure, procedure!"]] Everyone understands the procedure differently. The rules are clear. [[Noise and lines.]] It's clearly written in the Rules of Procedure. You're wrong! No! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u461	There are rules. You're breaking the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u462	No, I'm not breaking it! In this case, you're breaking it. [[Loud noise and lines.]] You're breaking the rules right now, fellow Members. [[Noise and lines.]] You're obstructing... [[speaking indistinctly]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u463	Please, procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u464	You are obstructing the normal work of the National Assembly at the moment. [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't do this! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u465	Normal work is at stake in your conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u466	Please don't do this! We're discussing art. 10 and we're in voting procedure on Art. 10. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u467	Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u468	I'll give you the floor after we finish the vote on art. 10. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u469	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u470	No, I can't agree with you here! We're definitely in a voting procedure. [[Loud noise and lines.]] No, no! I didn't do it during the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] No, it wasn't done during the vote! This has not been done during the vote! [[Noise and lines, talks between MPs from different parliamentary groups and Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u471	I can't take a break because it's 10:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u472	Colleagues, we're really in a voting procedure. [[Strong noise and lines, MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and non-members in PG continue to stand around the stands.]] Really, no! You really don't have a reason, we don't! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u473	Revoting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u474	You're wrong! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u475	We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9:00.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u476	You're wrong! Okay, we're breaking up! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Okay, we'll talk later! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u477	How do you interrupt during a vote? How come you can't start a procedure and you're interrupting during a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u478	Okay, we'll make an offer! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u479	Come on, explain how you interrupt during the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u480	All right, take your seats. [[noise and lines]] and we're gonna graduate! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Look, guys, you're wrong! In this case...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u481	So you can interrupt the session during the vote, and you can't give the procedure?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u482	I know, but you're wrong! [[Noise and lines.]] No, you have no reason!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u483	We continue to vote on this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u484	What are we going to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u485	We continue with the vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u486	We have a voting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u487	We continue with the vote. No, you have no reason here! [[(Spass Gurnevski and other MPs are chanting: Wor-ve-ni bo-clu-cs!]] I'll punish someone! [[(Scanded by the BSP for Bulgaria (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded by BSP for Bulgaria) (Scanded ……]] I'll punish someone! [[Loud noise, lines and screams.]] I'll punish someone! Colleagues! [[Very loud noise and lines.]] Colleagues, okay, I get it! I have a request and I ask you to understand in person: calm down, we will stop at the moment. Let's give it a chance to discuss it calmly, it's been a tense day. Ivan Chenchev [[BSP for Bulgaria, away from microphones]] : I want punishment..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u488	Okay, so I made an observation. [[Noise and lines.]] That's why I made a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u489	Who did you make it to? [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u490	Note I did! [[Noise, shout and lines around the stands, conversations between Tsveta Karayancheva and MPs from different parliamentary groups.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u491	Make a note of Gurnevsky leaving the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u492	Right now, Gurnevsky will be out of the room! Now!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u493	No, not right now. You know my attitude... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u494	Garnevsky, get out of the room! Get out of the room now! Garnevsky, get out of the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u495	Okay. Mr. Gurnevsky, please wait outside until we finish... [[Noise, lines and shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u496	What does it mean to wait outside? What point of the Rules is this to wait?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u497	Give us a chance to discuss both. We'll continue tomorrow. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm done. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u498	No, no, no! Don't explain it to us!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u499	We're graduating for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u500	[[BSP for Bulgaria, away from microphones]] Mr. Chairman, why are we graduating?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-03.u501	The next regular plenary session is tomorrow at 9:00, I understand you, Mr. Chenchev, according to the program that was proposed. [[Loud noise, lines and shouts.]] I'm adjourned for the day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
