ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I will present to you a draft program for the work of the National Assembly. Today is the first Wednesday of the month. No proposals have been made under art. 53, para. 8. "1." First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importers: Desislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 20 June 2019 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 22 May 2019. Adopted at first vote on 7 June 2019. 3. First vote on the Public Enterprises Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 5 June 2019 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 14 June 2019 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. The representatives of the National Assembly Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 24 June 2019 First point for Thursday, 4 July The Commission 7. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 1 July 2019 Point 2 for Thursday, 4 July 2019 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers sameonov Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2019. Adopted at first vote on 13 March 2019. Point 3 for Thursday 4 July 2019 9. Hearing of the Minister of Health on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the current state of the healthcare system in Northwestern Bulgaria. Importer: People's Representative Daniela Daritkova on 2 July 2019 Point 1 for Friday, 5 July 2019 10. Parliamentary control. Colleagues, please vote. They voted 179 MPs: 133, none, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a few days ago Dimitar Dimitrov died a Quaestor in the National Assembly for a long time. A friend of ours, a colleague loved by all of us, both by the administration of the National Assembly and by you, colleagues. That's why a deep bow! Today at 11:30 I will give a break until 1:00 p.m. so that all colleagues who want to go to Mitko's worship can do so. Bow to his memory! Moving on to messages: Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2018 "Analyse of the Services of the Services." Importer supposed to the Communications Regulation Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and controlling toxic chemicals and their precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to ratify the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016 in Brussels. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Environment and Water. Annual Activity Report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 Importer It's been assigned to the Health Committee. Annual Youth Report 2018 Importer The Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Annual report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Importer It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 27 June 2019, in the National Assembly, by letter, the Commission informed the European Parliament and the Council of its decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union'). No 936 00 10 has received an updated database of the Central Election Commission on a technical medium, as well as a copy of Decision No 447-EP of 29 May 2019 declaring the final results of the elections to Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria produced on 26 May 2019 and of Decision No 456-EP of 31 May 2019 on the announcement of the elected Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decisions were published in the Official Journal of the European Union, p. 44 of 2019. The updated technical medium database together with the copies of the solutions are available to the MPs in the Library of Parliament. On 1 July 2019 the National Assembly received a request from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov for permission to provoke prosecution against the National Representative Georgiev Mihaylov for a crime committed under art. 255 in conjunction with art. 26, para. 1 of the Criminal Code of Pre-trial Procedure No 254/2018 according to the description of the National Investigation Service, with Protocol No 18499 of 2018 on the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. By letter dated 2 July 2019, the President of the National Assembly informed the National Assembly of the request and the opportunity to familiarise himself with the attached materials. The request of the Attorney General has been sent to the MPs by official e-mail. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by their orders on the basis of art. 13, para. 1 points 1 and 3 of the same law has authorised the conduct of a joint Bulgarian-American preparation for the period from 7 to 20 July 2019 of the School Polygon. During the preparation he has authorised the residence of allied and foreign armed forces in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as follows: military and ground equipment from allied armed forces from the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Romania, the United States of America; military and ground equipment from foreign armed forces from the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Georgia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Moldova. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2019 and is not related to the conduct of military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military activities led by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 2 June 2019 with entry No 903-09-34 and was made available to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on insolvency for the period 22 May 21 June 2019 and Protocol No 25 from a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 26 June 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute received information about Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes for May 2019, Economic Conjuncture for June 2019, Price Indexes of a producer on the domestic and international market in the industry for May 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u2	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The reason for the procedure is the repair of the Su-25 attack fighters, apparently there's been some confusion at the station. We ask if there is a difference in government because Minister Karakachanov says there is a signed contract from last year, there is money transferred under this contract. At the same time, Mr. Karanikolov says that this contract cannot be fulfilled? You, Ms. Karayancheva, from Russia said that Russian specialists will come to Bulgaria and here together with a Bulgarian company we will repair the Su-25 fighters. We therefore propose that Minister Karakachanov, Minister Karanikolov come here and together with your participation we would like to clarify the issue of the repair of Su-25.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. I will inform the two ministers of your wish. Let's move on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. For the Report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, please come in, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 954-01-44, submitted by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova and a group of MPs on 20 June 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 26 June 2019 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests From the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency: Dr. Damian Iliev Representatives of NGOs were also present. The bill was presented by MP Desislava Atanasova, who noted that the changes are related to the frequent incidents in which people were attacked by released dogs. The Bill introduces a ban on the free release of dogs. The ban on their removal without cause will apply to dogs weighing more than 5 kg. With regard to aggressive dogs, the ban on removal without cause and muzzle remains. Differentiated and increased fines for infringements of these prohibitions shall be introduced. An exception to the prohibition on free release, as well as for removal without the occasion of dogs weighing more than 5 kg, is provided for dogs which are released freely in the separate and designated areas in the urbanised areas; for dogs of disabled persons; for service dogs in budget support organisations and those used by the Bulgarian Red Cross; for dogs accompanying or guarding agricultural animals outside the urbanised territories; for dogs used during hunting, participating in competitions or under training. The transitional and final provisions shall make the relevant amendment to the Animal Protection Act. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry agreed without notes the bill. According to the bill were received opinions from the Fund "Four paws" from the Regional Environmental Protection Center "To you with Nature" and from the National Coordination Network "Animal Use." Opinions were also received from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and from the Municipal Enterprise, which offer legislative changes that would contribute to more effective control. The following discussion was attended by the MPs from the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria, of the United Patriarchs and of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as well as representatives of non-governmental organizations. The main accents can be summarized as follows: all those who spoke were unanimous that the frequent incidents with attacks by domestic dogs on people is a complex problem related to multiple factors such as irresponsible acquisition, uncontrolled breeding, deliberate creation of aggressive behavior by owners, lack of care and irresponsibility of the owners in terms of the behavior of their pets and of the obligations replaced by the regulations. It was noted that these factors are also subject to regulation and constitute violations under the provisions of the Animal Protection Act, the Animal Health Act and the Criminal Code. The Animal Protection Act and the Veterinary Activity Act are subject to bans, including a ban on the removal of dogs without cause, and of aggressive dogs with no muzzle. According to the Veterinary Activity Act, mayors of municipalities, districts and town halls organize control of compliance with requirements for owners in pet farming, such as violations related to non-exercise control of domestic animals are established by acts drawn up by inspectors from municipalities and regions. Penal decrees are issued by the respective mayors and the collected sanctions are entered into the municipal budgets. In accordance with art. 325c, para. 1 of the Penal Code, which does not care enough for a spinal animal under its supervision, resulting in an average or severe bodily injury to a person, is punishable by imprisonment up to three years or probation and a fine of up to five thousand. lv. However, the lack of control and adequate enforcement by the control authorities in the face of the local authorities makes the existing prohibitions ineffective. The specific legislative measures proposed to ensure both the protection and welfare of animals and the health and safety of people are: increased control over compliance with the requirement for mandatory identification with microchip and vaccination; relief of the registration procedure for pets, including possible incentives for conscientious owners; compulsory castration for dogs not used for breeding and not registered for breeding activities; increased fee for those who do not wish to castrate their pets; sanctions for abandonment of pet animals; compulsory identification and registration for persons practicing breeding activities; regulation of online trade in dogs; higher penalties for unauthorised trade and breeding; binding of the vaccine against rabies with prior identification; uniform methodology for the determination of aggression in dogs; strengthening control of dogs that are used as guards; training of owners, especially large dogs, for their behavioral characteristics and risks; increasing the size of the sanctions against rabies with prior identification; uniform methodology for determining the aggressiveness in dogs; strengthening control of dogs that are used as guards; training of the owners, especially of large dogs, for their behavioral characteristics and risks; and risks to carry their possession; increasing the level of penalties for the free control of the owners without direct control of the owners; and control of the owners; mandatory of the local gardens; mandatory authorities; compulsory gardens; mandatory authorities; mandatory authorities; mandatory authorities; mandatory authorities; mandatory control authorities; mandatory authorities; and control authorities; and control authorities for the local authorities; and control authorities; and control authorities for the local authorities for the mandatory authorities; and control; and control; and control authorities; increased control; increased control; increased control; increased control authorities; increased control; increased control; increased control; increased control; increased control; and control; and control; increased control authorities for the number; increased control authorities; and control; increased control authorities for the number of the number of the competent authorities for the competent authorities; increased for the competent authorities; increased for the number for the specific control; increased for the specific levels for the specific measures for the specific legislative; and safety; and safety; increased; increased in the specific legislative; and safety control; and safety; and safety and safety authorities for the specific legislative measures to ensure; increased; increased to ensure; increased; increased; increased; and safety and safety; increased of animals; increased; increased in respect of animals; increased of animals; increased of animals; and safety and safety and safety of animals; and safety of animals; and safety of animals; and safety; and safety; increased It was noted that the increase in fines is mandatory, but would not be sufficient without measures being taken to strengthen control by institutions over breeders, traders and dog owners. In this respect, administrative responsibility should also be provided for officials who do not fulfil their statutory duties and functions. It has been stressed that the corresponding financial resources should also be secured for the implementation of both these preventive measures and educational campaigns among dog owners. On behalf of the importers, the People's Representative Desislava Atanasova expressed readiness between the first and second votes of the Draft to discuss all the opinions and proposals received by both MPs and competent institutions and NGOs. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry said that all texts on which consensus is reached will be included in the new Animal Health Act prepared. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 21 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Importer's reasons, Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present the reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, which received the unanimous approval of the Committee on Agriculture and Food from all colleagues of all parliamentary groups. The amendment of the Animal Treatment Act is required in relation to frequent incidents with domestic dogs. Realizing that the public interest over the past ten years has been focused mainly on the problem of stray and homeless dogs and the control of their population, the public relations related to the cultivation, the uncontrolled release and the walking of dogs remain in the background. The amendment proposal is precisely in this direction and aims to improve both control and increased safety for the population. Unfortunately, a series of tragic incidents associated with dog bites causing moderate, severe damage and even death have become daily in the last few weeks. This has imposed rapid legislative changes, with me and the other importers hoping that we will also respond to the public interest. We believe that the most interested in change are the inhabitants of urbanized territories, i.e. settlements, cities. We believe that increasing sanctions would also increase the responsibility of dog owners, which would lead to limiting the incidents with them. Any person who raises a dog should provide the behavior of his pet, safe for the health and life of other animals and humans. It is therefore necessary to take all measures to prevent its escape, to release it freely, which may prove to be a prerequisite for accidents with other people, animals, as well as with means of transport. We have proposed a change in terms of animals weighing more than 5 kilograms to have an increase in the penalty in their free release and walking without occasion, of course, with a number of exceptions in the Law, and an increase in the penalty for placing and walking animals in playgrounds, prohibited territories such as schools, kindergartens, as well as prohibited areas in urban environment. We have proposed that sanctions be dramatically increased from 100 to 1000 BGN. in relation to dogs who exhibit aggressive behaviour and move in urbanised areas without muzzle. I would like to say that the Commission has also paid serious attention to the issue of a tenfold increase in the fine so proposed. We believe that at this time a public discussion or debate may begin with regard to the prohibition or authorisation of certain breeds, because such proposals are also heard during the public discussion, or a special licensing regime after passing a particular course of training, or a mass practice in a number of European countries, the responsibility insurance for particularly aggressive breeds, which could bear the costs of any treatment of an attacked dog, a person of an aggressive animal. I would like to say that there are sanctions in the Animal Health Act and there are currently sanctions. They are in size respectively: for walking a dog without occasion. 100 BGN.; for walking a dog without a muzzle.. also 100 leva. There is a penalty prescribed in the Criminal Code, as the President of the Commission rightly noted in the Report. 325c, with regard to damage caused by a spinal animal. The penalties are both financial and liability for up to three years in prison, respectively probation or up to five years in prison, and penalty of up to 10 000 BGN. We believe that the proposals we have made will probably raise many questions for discussion. We hope that there will be such a public debate, because my fellow Members and I are also saying that we are ready to discuss many other issues that have also been addressed by written opinions in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. First of all, all those who issued an opinion on the Bill commented on the problem of lack of control and adequate enforcement by the local authorities with regard to the implementation of the current legal provisions. Secondly, it is argued that one of the main problems is the illegal breeding activity and the sale of breeding dogs by breeders and individuals, without mandatory registration of the seller and without guarantee either for the health status or for the origin of the dogs. Breeders must at this time ensure by means of a document of origin pursuant to Regulation No 41 of 2008 in respect of establishments where they are kept, bred or offered pets for the purpose of trading in boarding houses and shelters. We are currently observing mass practice of advertisements on the Internet for sale, for giving away various domestic animals, without any information about their origins, their pedigree and any possible infectious or parasitic diseases. Next, we are ready to debate on proposals for licensing and control of all commercial establishments for dog breeding, and there is even a proposal to accept a ban on this happening on open markets. Some of the non-governmental organisations that have sent us opinions believe that there should be strict standards of welfare, but they should also be part of the requirements for issuing a license as standards of environment, care, attention, veterinary control, movement, walks and so on. The issues we are going to put to public discussion are also related to the topics regarding compliance with the requirement for mandatory microchip identification for all domestic animals, including dogs and cats. Thus, we believe that domestic and homeless animals will be allowed to be covered in a national database. In addition, measures should be taken with regard to the increased control of mandatory identification and registration of breeders and the regulation of online dog trade. There are a number of proposals regarding easing the procedure for registration of domestic animals. There is also a proposal regarding the compulsory castration of dogs not used for breeding and not registered for breeding, and these are mainly female dogs. There is a proposal for higher sanctions for unregulated trade and breeding, as well as a proposal for mandatory vaccination for rabies in dogs and cats, and binding the vaccine to the preliminary identification of dogs and cats. Part of the NGOs have proposed dozens of measures that we should discuss between first and second readings of the Bill. If, honourable Members, you support the bill at first reading, I will ask for a maximum extension of the time limit in order to have a wider public debate, so that between first and second reading all in consensus, I hope that we will draw up proposals that will respond greatly to public relations and public expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Ebatine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u8	Good afternoon, colleagues! Madam President, I take it from the point of view that I am somewhat competent on this subject as chairman of a cinema club, which is a member of the Bulgarian Republican Kinology Federation. It is a good thing that the National Assembly has the political will to solve certain problems, but the way in which they are laid at first reading in the Bill I am familiar with it at least today, in some respects they have a wrong basis in terms of how these 5 kilograms are determined, who has decided them and what is the competence to determine these 5 kilograms? Because, as our colleague Chakarov says, sometimes his dog is 4,800 pounds when he goes on a diet, and then becomes 5,300 pounds. How do you define that? This is not the right starting position. There are dogs that are three kilos and are aggressive, there are dogs of certain breeds that can be 40, 50 and 70 kilograms of This standard, this approach as a principle base is wrong. As for dangerous breeds of dogs, this is a very controversial topic. There are dangerous dogs, but for dangerous breeds dogs the issue is very discussional. I, as someone who is familiar with this matter, cannot accept that there is a dangerous breed of dogs. There are dogs that are specially selected in order to have certain aggression and to perform certain functions. Rather, no position should be followed to prohibit dangerous breeds, but to set standards for breeding in kennels that meet certain requirements, i.e. to any kennel that raises dogs that are aggressive, to have certain requirements, to meet certain standards, as most of the colleagues have done. I am Chairman of the Bulgarian National Cinematological Club (Bulgarian National Cinematological Club) and we have many breeders in the country. Most of my colleagues have built kennels that meet standards so that dogs can't be dangerous and get out of the kennel field. Dear colleagues, within all clubs at the Bulgarian Republican Kinology Federation, which is a member of the International Kinology Federation, there is a standard for those who breed from all breeds. It doesn't matter what breed we're talking about. The issue of the documents is related to the dog's chipming, its mandatory three vaccines. The first, second and third vaccines. There are not even diseases that are dangerous to man, such as parvovirosis, parainfluenza, leptospirosis. These are diseases that are related to the type of "Kanis familiaris" are not related to the "Homo sapiens" review. Between first and second reading of the Law you must listen to absolutely all interested parties. But what we're seeing is that lately, in every subject in society, there's been some hysteria, if you will, everyone has a private PR in terms of this as a subconscious compensation for the personal problems of the owners to show how concerned they are about solving every public problem. Every problem must be solved by the people who are competent in its solution, not by the people who, just like that, are going to solve this problem without having any knowledge. I see there's political will from colleagues. In the manner of your speech, Mrs. Atanasova, I see that you have the political will to solve this problem and therefore you want, as far as I understand, a maximum period between the first and second reading of the Law. As a representative of the cinema club and of the Bulgarian Republican Kinology Federation, I will try to be of maximum benefit to you so that we can build a law that is as wide and objective as possible so that there will be no more repairs to this law, because it must also be working for the benefit of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Member, with much of the things you have said, I agree, but you seem to have neglected to say why this is necessary. You said there was political will. It is, there is, but why do these norms have to be established in the Animal Health Act, provided that a large part of them do not quote percentages, but over 50. 60% have the same ones already in force in the Animal Protection Act? They're the same! Coppy pasist, as they say. The problem here is not the law, but the law enforcement. The authorities to monitor this law for law enforcement are not doing their job. And that there is political will from all the parliamentary groups to deal with this problem there is, but I don't know if this is the toolbox. If a change is to be made to the Animal Treatment Act, it really has to be comprehensive and expert in order not to have to be corrected again, or perhaps in the third or fourth law the same norms should be copied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? Mr. Ebatine? There won't be. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! We accept that the change in the Animal Treatment Act is a reaction to frequent cases of animal aggression, including tragic ones. The fact that the subject is being opened is a positive sign of the need to make changes, but at the same time these changes that are currently being proposed to us will not solve the issues of aggression and insufficient control in the dogs that are being exercised. Raising sanctions is a step, but these sanctions are not enough for themselves to be imposed and control to be carried out, as stated not only in the Animal Health Act, but also in the Animal Protection Act. Mrs. Atanasova, I listened to her very carefully. She, in addition to presenting the Bill, made a statement because in many of these she accepted what should be changed in the Law between first and second readings after a very good discussion. In the Committee on Agriculture and Food in the National Assembly there were representatives from different organizations and each one raised the issues in terms of the desire to solve the problems. In any case, all requirements regarding sanctions for dogs, as well as control, are laid down in the Animal Protection Act. The control is carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and also by municipalities. However, the fact is that, especially in municipalities, the insufficient financial resources available to them do not result in the control being effective, sanctions being imposed and an opportunity for registration of all animals in the territory concerned, especially in large cities. From the speeches that were made during the discussion in the Commission, it has been established and it has been said that this is true, I cannot say that there are 220 000 dogs in the territory of Sofia, but only 8000 meet the requirements, that is, they have passports, they are chipped and therefore they meet all the requirements required by the law to be considered as pets. The penalties that are imposed mean that all those who are correct will be sanctioned if one of the things is missing in respect of a muzzle or a leash or anything related to the other texts in the Law. Therefore, a comprehensive review of what is the state of the population in Bulgaria is extremely important. The last dog census in Sofia was in 2010. From then on, I don't know if anyone can give adequate information about the condition, especially of stray dogs, which are the serious problem, not those who are the so-called escorts or pets. From this point of view, we believe that a number of changes must be made between first and second readings. They were also mentioned in Mrs. Atanasova's statement on activity, trade, as well as control by mandatory chipming. I'd like to open a clamp here that this is a very heavy financial event. One chip in veterinary clinics costs BGN 20. and this represents a serious problem and barrier to those who want to raise dogs and who want to take care of them, as this financial commitment in most cases is quite serious, separately vaccines and all other care to be administered. We're talking and we're sanctioning aggressive dogs. It is true that there is a definition of the notion of an aggressive dog in the Veterinary Activity Act, but in the way the aggressive dog is determined, no court will impose a penalty for which dog is aggressive. It's just that the definition is so general that whatever administrative act is written, it will fall into court due to its most general description. It is also very important to distinguish between aggressive dogs that we also have dogs that are grown as farm animals. They can't help but be aggressive dogs because they are designed to perform a certain activity. They're trained in this. This type of animal is not considered in the Law at all. And in the Law on livestock, they are even defined as farm animals, not animals escorts or hunters or others, which are used in one form or another. We believe that support in this bill confirms our desire to be open, to debate, to hear absolutely all opinions, to have enough time to argue the positions and to propose texts that really work, but in the end it is still about the need to provide financial control for implementation and financial resources for the implementation of this activity, because everything else recorded in the most general and desirable texts will not work if municipalities, if the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is not in place and do not decide or implement these policies that are written in the Law. Support, as I say, is a credit of trust, but we hope and will actively participate between first and second readings with our proposals, which we believe will be at least in line with the direction that we can all accept as an opportunity to change legislation and specify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u13	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! My point is that the talkers commented on aggressive dogs. What do you mean, aggressive dog, none of us can say. Each dog's aggression to the cat, for example, is proverbial, right? And if on this basis we judge the dog how aggressive it is and how not, or the breed was aggressive or not, Mr. Ebatine didn't see it, but because he mentioned the Sanbernara as a dog that was extremely unaggressive, maybe he forgot, in our early childhood there was a film that was called Coujo-san, if I'm not mistaken, and it was an aggressive dog of the Sanbernar breed. Of course, there are other examples, but ultimately an aggressive or bad dog attacking people is the owner's fault. Otherwise, there are a lot of errors in the system in general. A major problem and the biggest problem is the lack of desire and incentive for municipal employees to perform their duties by law, because the chipping and checking whether a dog is chipped is their responsibility. When dogs don't chip and when municipalities start complaining about many homeless dogs, it's a function of unchipting or the unfinished work of their employees. Because when a dog doesn't chip, eventually we don't know the owner of that dog at what point he'll decide that it's not necessary and it goes on the street. When it gets homeless, then it becomes a community problem. But the problem of the municipality is in itself, as her employee did not check whether this dog was chipped, whether it had an owner. This way is the only way we can subsequently determine who owned this dog. Between first and second reading I will make a proposal, apart from the aggressive dog and other sanctions provided for in the Bill, to have a sanction of no less than 500 levs. for owners who dump their pets on the street and they become homeless. About neutering and other measures to control populations. Of course, this must also be tolerated by municipalities, if they can, if not the state must help in any way, there are enough foundations that work in this direction, but these are the main problems of uncontrollable breeding, putting pets on the street and, of course, failing to fulfil the obligations of municipal and state services to say, let's not blame them just the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Sabanov, I am making this line because I cannot agree with you. There are proven aggressive dogs, and now I'm going to list you four pit bulls, rottweilers, dogo Argentineo and American terriers. These dogs are placed under special restrictions or bans and, for example, in Spain, to watch a pit bull, you have to make insurance for 120 grand. Euros, being uncondemned, taking special training on how to look at that dog. So there are proven aggressive dogs. For example, in a neighbouring Romania, it is forbidden to grow pit bulls or rottweilers. Because this bill was caused by a tragic accident with the man who was bitten by the Kane Corso breed. These breeds are really aggressive, and I think it's more proper prevention than imposing fines on people. Because they're going to walk, I guess, scale employees and measure the dog whether it's over 5 kilos or up to 5 kilos. Most cases that are tragic are with exactly these breeds of Rottweiler, pit bull, are much more rare with cane corso. So it is much better to put these dogs under restrictions and not be able to be kept by everyone because the dog copys the behavior of the person. And ultimately, animals are the largest majority in the world, but without the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! My fellow Member, I can kind of agree with you, but if we start bringing in as aggressive dogs, the rottweiler is a dog designed for security. By that logic, we have to bring in the German Shepherd, we have to bring in all the guards, including the Doberman. There are many breeds that are used only for security. They're aggressive, and that's their job, that's why they're created, so they're trained as a whole. Let's just say the pit bull really is for dog fights. The pit bull shouldn't normally attack people. He's a breed for dog fighting, American pit bull terrier. Dogo Argentineno is a hunting dog, if memory serves. So in his hunting skills is a good dog and there is no way to say that dog is aggressive or that breed is aggressive. Yeah, she could be aggressive on animals. I can say that the rottweiler and the Doberman are aggressive towards people when they're trained for this, but to eliminate whole breeds, I can't agree. Of course, everyone has the right to their own opinion, so colleague Atanasova said that we will have enough time between first and second reading for any suggestions to debate exactly such details, which have different opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u19	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Come in for a speech, Mr. Affordable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! I, unlike my previous colleagues, will not go into the specifics of individual breeds and the details of the subject, as I think I am not one of the most competent. However, there are many more competent people in this House than I do who know very well the specifics of the problem. But we have to admit, colleagues, that there is such a problem in Bulgaria, the problem with aggressive dogs, which is not only from today, it has been for a long time, but unfortunately, no solution to this problem has been found in the country's legislative framework. The proposed bill is yet another attempt to bring order to this topic. Unfortunately, the specific cause is a tragic accident. What I cannot agree with is the approach to proposing amendments to legislation on a specific occasion, and so that the problem is not solved again. One thing is clear: there is a problem. It is also very clear to the importers and to the Chamber that this bill will not solve the problem, as the proposed texts are very remote, of a very minimal part of the complex problem that exists. I would not like to see employees sitting at the entrance of the South Park with one scale and measuring the dogs whether they are under or over 5 kg. I think with one such approach, we don't solve the big problem. We must also recognise that the problem is very big, very complex, very comprehensive. At the very least, in the discussion we made in the Committee on Agriculture with NGOs who were present, who are competent on the subject, I remained convinced that the more questions we ask, we find no answers, but, on the contrary, more questions arise in us. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will support the proposed bill only to the extent that the issue is raised so that it will cause discussion and debate in society. We will support it under condition, and the condition is: between first and second reading the time to be as long as possible so that all proposals of non-governmental organisations, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Food Agency, the MPs, the colleagues who are competent on the subject can be taken into account in order to be able, colleagues, to resolve the issue in a complex manner, and not with dire proposals that do not solve the big problem. There is one attempt, once again, unfortunately, to solve the problem, but I do not see its solution with this approach. The negotiating colleagues said and are right that the topic is covered in several laws... in the Law on Veterinary Practice, in the Law on Animal Protection, animal welfare and so on, each municipality has its own regulations on this topic. After all, legislative, since the subject is scattered in several laws, there are texts that are repeated, and at the same time there are texts that are missing in all three laws. Last but not least, my personal opinion is that the issue is not so legislative, because there is some legislative regulation that is bad, but it is, as the main problem is the implementation of the laws that concern the subject. Which are the applying organs? The implementing authorities shall be the municipalities and the Food Agency. Neither of the two institutions, colleagues, is neither interested nor motivated nor has capacity nor is there an opportunity to apply these texts that are now available. We as legislators, in my opinion, in addition to transferring an obligation to municipalities, must also settle the financial part. It is very easy to write in one law: "Make shelters for stray dogs and put them there! " - Okay! But you understand that this is a financial resource! We give them an obligation, but at the same time we don't provide them with finances. No municipality is interested in applying these laws because their conscientious application creates for them an additional financial commitment which they do not have a financial part, nor people for this job, nor are these people interested. Colleagues, I have proposed to the Commission, I also propose now that I address the importers: give a maximum period between first and second reading, let us continue the discussion and debate, take into account all the proposals of non-governmental organisations, take into account the proposals of the Food Agency which have not been taken into account, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Separately on this topic, a legal team should analyze the legislation in the three laws that are scattered, and ultimately give birth to a product to solve the issue. It is insane in the 20th century for Bulgarian citizens to be bitten and killed by stray dogs. I think that in the world and in European countries this issue is solved. If we have to borrow their experience too, but with such excruciating actions without dealing with the problem in a complex way, I think we will not solve the issue. Anything else, honourable importers, after another incident, another amendment in law has a short-term and temporary PR effect. Citizens and society will appreciate the real effect after offering complex solutions to solve part of the big package of problems called a problem with stray aggressive dogs. Under this condition, we will support the Bill at first reading, but with the idea that everything we have talked about on additional texts, to engage additional institutions in order to propose a set of measures that will solve this big problem that really exists in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Atanasova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u22	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to take the floor. I didn't allow myself to repeat every speech, because I believe that within a few minutes I can answer all the questions that you raised in your speeches. Thank you all to Mr. Ebatin, Mrs. Bachvarova, Mr. Hristov, Mr. Abase, Mr. Sabanov, for the opinions and opinions you expressed. First of all, I would say that I strongly disagree that I and my colleagues have been looking for a PR share or dividend from this proposal. I regret that our approach was no different to attract MPs from all parliamentary groups as importers so that there would be no such reading and such discussion on this issue. Secondly, regarding the issue of the polarisation of society, I once again say that all these... and European practices, including, are imperative to be discussed in the debate on this bill between first and second readings. I agree with some of your speeches, colleagues, that the debate on sanctions alone and alone is strictly fragmented. Maybe we should have a much wider debate. Perhaps it was expected that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Food Safety Agency would propose.. and I have the assurance that they are working on such a big bill, a big change that will offer us during the autumn session of the National Assembly. Under no circumstances are these proposals, again, not Campaign. On the contrary, they are a response to public expectations to protect public interest. With this sentence I also respond to a comment on the proposal regarding the five kilograms of you, Mr. Abase and Mr. Ebatine. Currently, the penalty for each breed, for each size dog, led without occasion or released freely, is BGN 100. I am convinced that a puppy, who is not mentioning breeds, very little, can cause neither slight bodily harm nor pain or suffering to the extent that can cause a dog with 25, 30, 40, 50 kg and up. With our proposal regarding restrictions to act on breeds and dogs over 5 kg, we are taking a step back from the current resection. At the moment all dogs, once again say "no matter breed, no matter size, their owners are obliged to walk them on occasion. Lately, it seems that it has become very modern, even in their bags they are carried by young girls. I do not know anyone who has drafted a criminal decree, although now the current law obliges for a dog without any reason to be sanctioned by its owner. That is why the proposal is to relieve at least this regime. If there are suggestions and they are in relation to another size of the dog or to breeds.. Small, medium and large, I do not object. Indeed, the subject is rather expert and I hope that all those who are relevant and knowledge will be involved in this debate. Madam President, if you'll allow me to do...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u23	You've finished your speech. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u24	...after the vote at first reading, to make a procedural proposal so that I don't get up twice, on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to extend the maximum period for proposals between first and second readings to 3 weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, lines of Mrs. Atanasova's speech? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! Changing the Law is necessary, but I think, as some others have also said, that this law is not doomed to particular success and efficiency. That's what I think. There will be some changes, there will be some increases in sanctions, but ultimately the philosophy that will result will remain unresolved. There is no such idea at stake in this law to have an effect, first. Secondly, there is no change in the control that needs to be exercised. With such timid changes nothing else will be achieved except for some time to comment on the topic in the media, some time to be created, as some colleagues have suggested here, some working group of specialists with the attraction of many institutions, a long and long talk with the creation of the impression that we are doing something like MPs, lawmakers, but ultimately the result will be the next bite, tearing and eating of a person. Why do I think that? I think that even now, the current text, which requires the mandatory use of an occasion, should remain. There is no way, as has already been said by a number of colleagues, to measure the dogs at the entrance of a park, at the exit of a park, at the entrance of a cooperative, at the exit of a co-operation. This is simply impossible. However, if we want to achieve the necessary effect, in other words, that there are no people being bitten, we do not need to close our eyes....................... without the mandatory requirement to muzzle every dog coming out of the house. At home to bite whoever he wants, but when the dog is taken out of the house, it has to have a muzzle. It doesn't matter how small it is or how big it is. If we look at the possible damage to the human body as the only result of the use of a muzzle, I would still like to describe to you a situation in which young children witness a dog fight, how to say it, of small dogs that are biting themselves, bleeding, torn ears and so on. It's not a very pleasant sight, it's also damaging. We must bet in this period of public and mass discussion the request, and accept the placing of the muzzle as a mandatory condition for the removal of a dog. Absolutely! Many people here who spoke have dogs and did not declare conflict of interest. I don't have one. I'm not a fan of raising dogs in urban conditions, but I think every dog should have a muzzle. Any dog can bite no matter how big or how small. Those who are unaggressive but are brought up by aggressive owners also bite. For example, I can tell you in Burgas, there are other colleagues from Burgas May I ask how the sanction by the municipal authorities will be imposed, as laid down in the current law and which is not currently changing with this proposal for a change in the law? City police don't even have the right to ask him for his ID, and even if he asks him for it, he doesn't wear an ID card in his shorts and he laughs at them and goes on. How are we going to protect the other kids in the park, or people, or elderly citizens, and so on? Impossible! It is simply necessary to entrust control to the police, to create a simplified legal norm, that any dog without muzzle will be taken away for example and accordingly the sanction provided for by the law will be imposed. It will be applied by a police officer without any hesitation, without any additional requirement to wear scales or proof that the dog is aggressive or not aggressive, which in a vessel can hardly be proved or rejected. So the norms need to be simpler and more active. Otherwise, we will be victims again of such dog attacks, group or single, and so on. That's what I think. In other words, we need to focus the discussion between first and second readings in two directions. First, strengthening restrictions on walking dogs without muzzle. This must be banned. Secondly, control must be taken out of the municipalities, as the municipal police, as I said, have no right to even ask for an ID. Otherwise, in general, the changes are timely, related to the latest such unpleasant cases and we will support the Bill at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will be brief. I take the floor insofar as I express our concern that the problem will not really be solved, because I am actually convinced that importers' desire to achieve the effects of prevention rather, but in this case, as is clear from the debate that has been held in our Agriculture Commission, the penalty will not lead to this prevention. Why am I saying this? Because actually the proposed texts are based on a rather archaic concept of aggression in dogs. Aggressiveness in dogs can be defined as an action causing traumatism of a person, dog or other animal. Growling, peeling teeth, biting, breaking bones, tearing tissues of a living organism are a manifestation of the aggressive behavior of a dog. Why am I talking about prevention and why do I think this bill settles the investigation? Because the animal must already manifest this behavior, and I think that we as legislators should arrange for these texts in the Law to limit such a type of behavior for the more responsible treatment of owners of animals. From our parliamentary group, we will support the Bill at first reading because we really believe it is not just an up-to-date topic, and it is vital. With all the attitude and emotion with which we know that owners of domestic animals will treat it, we believe that we must first take care of the lives and health of our people and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Vote 150 MPs: for 145, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I will now put to the vote the procedure Mrs. Atanasova proposed to increase the period between first and second readings to three weeks. [[Reply.]] Colleagues, we are voting for the maximum period between first and second readings. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE PRIVACY LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, to introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, I present a Report to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 902-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019, adopted at the first vote on 7 June 2019. The Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: The Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control was amended and supplemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u31	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer with the corresponding version in the name of the Law. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Section II, the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Department is established. 20: It's 20. "Search service" "St. Sofia". 2. In Section IV, the Ministry of Defence shall: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." Terem "Holding" JSC, Sofia "Sofia"; (b) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." Armstroyinvest.sc., Sofia.; (c) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. Multiprofile Hospital for Long-term Treatment and Rehabilitation 3. In Section VII, the "Cultures' is created. 16: ..16. "National Palace of Culture" "Sofia Congress Centre" "Sofia" JSC, Sofia "Sofia". 4. In Section X, the Ministry of Finance. 7 and 8 are cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u33	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 108 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u34	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u35	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 2 which the Commission supports. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Here comes the third point: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLICS. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us again to Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I would like to make a procedure: on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Access to the Hall of Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister," Valentin Gruev "Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations, Government of State Participation" and Velichka Nenova "State Expert in the Directorate of Industrial Relations, Government of State Participation."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u37	Thank you. We are voting on the motion for admission in this House. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u38	♪ I can't believe on a public enterprise bill, No 902-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2019. At its regular meetings held on 12 and 26 June 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Public Enterprises Bill. The bill presented by Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy, regulates the way in which public policy is defined and made public in the field of public undertakings, the introduction of standards for good corporate governance of public undertakings, as well as the obligations for disclosure and transparency of the activities of public undertakings and their management bodies. The Council of Ministers will exercise the rights of the State in public enterprises and will be able to delegate those rights to ministers according to their sectoral competence and/or to the Agency for Public Enterprises and investment for a certain portfolio of public undertakings. The term "public enterprise" includes commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state/municipality participation in the capital or in which the State/municipality otherwise exercises dominant influence, as well as state-owned enterprises established by special laws on the grounds of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law and the subsidiaries of the companies and undertakings mentioned above, if they control the State/Municipality more than 50 percent of the shares/shares with voting rights or otherwise exercises control. The public undertakings will be divided into "micro', "small', "average' and "large' on the basis of the criteria described in Chapter Two, Section I and Section II of the Accounting Act. Public undertakings will be able to be entrusted with public service obligations or public policy objectives by the authorities exercising the rights of the State/municipality within their competences or under a procedure laid down by law. The Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control will be renamed the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments and the Bulgarian Investment Agency will be included in it. Management bodies of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments will be the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. The activities, budgets, assets, liabilities, archive and other rights and obligations of the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and the Bulgarian Investment Agency will be transferred to the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments. The pending cases at the date of the entry into force of the law will be continued by the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments until their completion of all the institutions. The labour and service relations of the heads and employees of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency and the Bulgarian Investment Agency will be governed under the conditions of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act. The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control will continue to exercise its powers as the Supervisory Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments from the date of the entry into force of the law. The Executive Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control will continue to exercise its powers as the Executive Board of the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments from the date of the entry into force of the law. The members of the Executive Board shall be persons with higher education, a Master, with a minimum of 10 years of professional experience in the field of finance, government and/or the real economic sector, of which 3 years of leadership. In the event that a member of the Executive Board does not meet these requirements, its powers will cease from the date of entry into force of the law. The powers of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Investment Agency will cease from the date of the entry into force of the law. The selection, nomination and appointment of members of management and control bodies in single public enterprises and the appointment of candidates for the taking up of those positions in public undertakings in which the State is a partner or shareholder will be governed by a methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers in compliance with the requirements of special laws. The composition of supervisory boards and boards of directors will include independent members. The number of independent members should be more than half of the total number of members of the body concerned. They will not be independent members of the state's representatives in the management and control bodies. State enterprises will not be able to be created under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act, if they are intended to carry out mainly business activities which could be carried out by a private operator for profit purposes. The Council of Ministers will assign to the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investment the preparation of an analysis of the created by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law State-owned enterprises to clarify the nature of their activities.. mostly commercial or mainly public functions and policies. The analysis shall be submitted to the Council of Ministers within 12 months of the entry into force of the law. On the basis of the analysis, the Council of Ministers will adopt a conversion programme within 3 years. Existing state-owned enterprises established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which are mainly engaged in commercial activity, will be converted into sole commercial companies under the relevant application of the provisions of Part Two, Title Three, Chapter 16a, Section III of the Commercial Law. Existing state-owned enterprises established by special laws on the basis of art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which perform mostly public functions and policies, will be reorganized into administrative structures in compliance with the current regulations or will be included in the consolidated fiscal programme under art. 13, para. 4 or art. 171 of the Public Finance Act. The sale of parts of the property to commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital or property of commercial companies whose capital is owned by other commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital will be possible through the electronic platform under art. 3a. The amendment will enable the privatisation authority to assess in which cases when selling separate parts to use the platform, in view of the need for certain transactions in the tender contracts to lay down additional obligations for the buyer. The scheme of sale of separate parts will differ from that of the property which was adopted in August 2018 with the adoption of the electronic platform. 3a of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act is imperative and requires all properties to be sold via an electronic platform. At the request of the purchasers under privatisation contracts of companies for which insolvency proceedings have not been opened or which are not in liquidation proceedings and for which the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments has claims for penalties and/or claims for a price awarded by an effective judicial decision or for which an executive sheet has been issued, the Agency will be able to conclude with them an agreement or agreement to defer the claim in the event of the existence or presentation of a security covering the amount of the claim and interest due for the period of the deferral. Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 The list of companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital or parts thereof shall be repealed. With the change, all commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state participation in capital or commercial companies whose shares or shares are owned by a commercial company with more than 50 per cent state participation in capital will be privatized after a decision has been adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. As regards parts of the property of commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital or property of commercial companies whose capital is owned by other commercial companies with more than 50 per cent state participation in capital, the decision-making body will be the Council of Ministers. With regard to the sale of parts of medical institutions and property, private state property, with a tax estimate of more than 10 000 BGN, the agency remains the body that decides to privatize. In the case of a newly formed state-owned company, a privatisation decision will be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. In the case of a newly formed company with municipal participation, a privatisation decision will be adopted by the municipal council. In order to synchronize the rules of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control with those of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, art. Art. 23, 24 and art. 25, para. 1 that are concerned with the conflict of interest. In the course of the discussion, opinions were expressed against the merger of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control with the Bulgarian Investment Agency and the cancellation of Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov stated his readiness to withdraw the texts of the Law governing the merger of the two agencies and the cancellation of Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 List of companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital or parts thereof and asked for the vote on the Bill to be postponed for a subsequent committee meeting due to its forthcoming examination by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Written opinions on the bill were received by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Union for Economic Initiative, the CNB and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria supported the bill and defined it as an important step in fulfilling two national objectives................................................................................................ They consider that texts should be regulated to refer to regulations relating mainly to the requirements of the management and control bodies as well as to the powers of the State in public companies; the disclosure of information must be made use of the mechanism provided for in the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, Chapter 6 (a) (v) (v) (v) for the independent directors to be elected by the Public Enterprises and Investments Agency and to have representatives of majority structures in civil society such as trade unions and employers in its management bodies. The Bulgarian Industrial Association also supported the bill, stressing that public enterprise policy should be defined by the Council of Ministers, but approved by the National Assembly; the criteria for the selection of the members of the governing bodies.. to be prescribed in the law and not in methodology; the instructions for implementing the law to be given by the Council of Ministers and not by the Agency for Public Enterprises and Investments. Support for the bill was also stated by the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Union for Business Initiative, announcing the definition of "market defects" and transparency in determining the criteria for the selection of managers of public companies. The CST claimed that this is a useful law for them, given the need to regulate relations in this sector of the economy and the more efficient management of public undertakings. On the basis of the opinion of the Minister of Economy and his assurance that the texts relating to the privatisation and merger of the two agencies will be dropped, they announced that they had every reason to support the bill and believe that, in this form, it will protect the public and state interest to the maximum extent. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria has appealed to provide for explicit legal rules indicating the applicability of the texts in the Draft Law to municipal commercial companies, thus clearly specifying the difference between municipal enterprises, under the Law on Municipal Property and the Law on Public Enterprises, and municipal councils, such as the principals of municipal commercial companies, will be able to make separate decisions for their establishment, management and closure. During the discussion, the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) asked a question about the material assets of the state (s) who and by what criteria will assess their value in a future mixed company, as well as whether municipalities are deprived of the possibility to create municipal enterprises to clean the municipality, for example. They called for the provision of a blocking quota to be considered as a guarantee that even when the State's share in a company remains below 67% and an increase in capital is required, its interest will be protected. The chairman of the commission Petar Kanev summarized that, along with the need for this law, it is important to clear the concept of the agency, the authority on the enforcement of the law; to specify the idea of privatization of the separate parts, which differs from the current law; with particular attention to write out the methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers, in particular the requirements for independent experts in the governing bodies, which will manage state ownership in public enterprises, and to provide for a requirement to prevent conflict of interest to independent experts. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for Public Enterprises, No 902 01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. There are no other reports received on the bill under consideration. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? Here you go, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will support the Bill at first reading. However, I will draw attention to a part of it relating to the rules on municipal commercial companies which fall within its scope and regulations, where, at second reading, attention must be paid to how they will be formulated and what powers will be given to the newly established Public Enterprises Agency, so that there is no conflict with constitutional provisions, especially constitutional provisions relating to local self-government and fundamental principles of local self-government. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 of the Public Enterprises Act outlines its scope. Nevertheless, the question of the implementation of the Law remains controversial in its entirety with regard to companies with municipal participation in capital, since the provisions in this part allow for an extensive interpretation, which can come to conclusions that are in dissonance with constitutional and legal arrangements. The draft provides for the Agency for Public Enterprises of the Council of Ministers as a specialized unit to carry out monitoring functions, publication of up-to-date information, activity reports, including financial and non-financial, carrying out an assessment of the implementation of approved business programmes and making proposals to improve the management of all public undertakings, including municipal commercial companies. However, the problem here is with the specific argumentation of the texts. I will not list them in detail because, unfortunately, the wording given allows for a double interpretation of the way in which this monitoring will be carried out selection, nomination and appointment of members of management and control bodies in accordance with the methodology that the future Agency for Public Enterprises will adopt. The delegation of powers to the Agency to collect and process information is good, to give competent opinions is also good. However, to give instructions on the management of municipal commercial companies to me seems dangerous as a formulation, as we can thus come to a violation of the principle of local self-government and the possibility that the principal of municipal property is to take decisions regarding the management of this property in favour of the territorial community, i.e. the citizens of the municipality concerned, such as the central government to directly seize functions guaranteed by the Constitution and the Law on local self-government and local administration. It should be borne in mind that a large part of the proposals that have been made in the Bill are currently included in the regulations on municipal property management for the establishment and management of municipal commercial companies and can be improved by taking the positive experience of municipal councils and municipalities up to this point. The introduction of the legal rules in this part should be carried out extremely carefully and balanced with a view to respecting the principle of local self-government, preserving the right of municipalities to take decisions according to local conditions, as well as taking into account the specific and scale of commercial companies established by the municipalities. In this case, I should say again, be careful not to seize the powers that, at the moment, the Constitution, the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and the Law on Municipal Property provide exclusively in the powers of municipal councils and not to a centralised state authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u41	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches on the draft discussion? Mr. Stoynev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the time has come for us to look at an extremely important bill such as the Public Enterprises Act. It is commendable that, after two years of opposition efforts, we finally see a similar bill, because on two occasions our proposals have been rejected................................. that there is no need for such a bill and that state-owned enterprises, or as we already call them public enterprises, including municipal companies with more than 50% participation, can do their business and do not need to be regulated. Let's tell the truth. For two years the government had not heard the opposition's voice and finally had to tell you from Brussels that such a bill was necessary. Why is it necessary, ladies and gentlemen? Because this is a sector for which we cannot say that it has great efficiency, but at the same time it is extremely important in view of our adoption into ERM 2. We remain the only country in the Member States of the European Union that has, unfortunately, not yet found its place in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. One of the main recommendations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is precisely the way Bulgarian state enterprises are managed. It is no secret, honourable MPs, that every government, when changed, comes a minister and starts replacing absolutely all boards. No specific professional or, I'd say, business interests are more political. People are appointed, who are fully arranged on a party basis and thus change the boards.. We leave aside the effectiveness of the businesses and what they will lead to. In most cases, of course, the results are not as good as we want, unless the respective minister at some point actually appoints, albeit politically, people professionals. I give an example of an enterprise, such as the VMZ, which was about to disappear and then for just a few months this enterprise with an exclusive management could become extremely profitable and give food to a whole region. I am talking about the period 2013 - 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, what is lacking in this bill is to put aside its main objective, which we see at second reading will de facto be taken out, namely the merger of the two agencies, to meet a request from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. We of the opposition propose an approach that goes beyond this request. Let us not just listen to what we are told outside, but take steps so that we break up with these party appointments in state enterprises. Let's introduce the competition start there, let's include experts, knowledgeable and capable people, people who can be changed only if they do not implement their business plan, either to reduce loss and increase profits or to increase investments, to reduce debts depending on the enterprise. And if only and only this business plan is not implemented, then and only then the respective Minister or the Council of Ministers should have the right to change the board of these enterprises. We've already hired people. Some of them are prominent professionals, but we know that there are businesses in which there really were blunders. This is not just about the government, it is also about the opposition, it is about absolutely all the political forces. We therefore believe that the main thing missing from this bill is this. Think about it! We do not yet have a state-owned company that can, figuratively speaking, enter or invade foreign markets. We see the examples with other countries - there are so many, the debate that we have here with the state company CEZ. Why is there no Bulgarian company that, for example, enters neighbouring countries and the profits of these enterprises come here? I'll tell you why the management of this company doesn't work on a party basis. We need to separate ourselves from these party assignments. This is what the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development wants. We are currently proposing a bill that will de facto meet only the title of this requirement and that is why we will abstain. Therefore, if we all together give ourselves a hand and decide that people professionals will enter there, and why not, for example, be managers from other countries to be given the opportunity to manage these businesses based on their professional experience? We need to be extremely careful, because public enterprises provide 10% of the gross domestic product, and I remain on the sidelines that municipal and state-owned enterprises generate perhaps one of the biggest corruptions. It is no coincidence that the ten largest enterprises in the world in capitalization are state-owned enterprises in Forbes. It is true that three are from China and one is from Saudi Arabia, but this clearly shows that when the state can operate on a market basis, these companies work on a market basis and generate profits that remain here. That's the best part. That is why we want to see precisely the specific commitments in the state and most of all in municipal enterprises and the way in which these enterprises are formed and managed. Sometimes a deliberate political force decides to bankrupt these businesses, then can be privatized. But this is what society suffers from. In order for society not to suffer, we at BSP want to stop with this vicious transition model and for these enterprises to be market-based. Eventually, at a later stage, there may also be relevant shareholders with minority shares, I say eventually, if, for example, we mature one day for such action to see how the undertaking is managed, but that is, of course, one step in the next five or six years. Let us first give the beginning of professionalism, of the expertise in the management of state and municipal enterprises, and not just call them public and tell the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development: here we have this bill! If you had listened two years ago to what the opposition was proposing, we would now be a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and we would be in the Eurozone waiting room. Okay, well, we missed this moment, but let's just not vote now. Of course, we will abstain, but we want this bill to pass, to continue. We will abstain because, unfortunately, what I'm talking about is not in there, only the title answers. But I hope between first and second readings, if you agree, of course, to stop with these political, party appointments that do not result in this efficiency that a state or municipal enterprise can have in a particular sector and compete with the private on a market basis. We are not saying that it eats competition, but rather that it competes with something that I think is really necessary in the public sector. The good news is that the ban list remains, so the union's concerns are cleared. As far as I understand it, they will support this bill, so from now on our task is to create these mechanisms on which businesses are not poorly managed, but to seek this efficiency to satisfy the national and, above all, the public and market interests of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Public Enterprises Bill, No 902-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2019. 100 MPs voted: 66, none, 34 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next item of the weekly programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT TO CHANGE THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN BULGARIA AND THE RUSSIAN SOCIAL SECURITY FEDERATION OF 27February 2009, REFERRED TO IN SOFIA ON 4 MARCH 2019. He was brought in by the Council of Ministers. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia, No 902-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 26 June 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Lazar Lazarov. During the presentation of the bill Mr. Lazarov focused on several more significant moments than he did. First of all, he stressed that the proposal that has been made is the result of two main circumstances - one is related to changes that have been made in the legislation of the two countries that are relevant to the subject matter of the Agreement and the other amendments are caused by the practice of implementing the Treaty and improving some of its provisions. Next, Lazar Lazarov presented the novelties in the Treaty, which are extremely favorable to Bulgarian citizens. They relate to the fact that when a citizen of one of the Contracting Parties moves and lives in another territory, outside these two countries, the National Insurance Institute will continue to pay pensions and benefits provided for in the Agreement, in the territory of a third country, if Bulgaria has concluded agreements with it. It is also the same with regard to respect for an internship. Where a State grants and calculates the first pension, it shall check the internship in the territory of the two Contracting States. In the event that this internship does not reach, it will be supplemented by an internship from the second country with which the State granting the pension has a social security contract or agreement. The Treaty sets out the territorial scope of the countries as well. As regards the Russian Federation, it is specified that it is the successor of the Russian Soviet Socialist Republic, which is part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. All other countries that were part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are excluded from the scope of this agreement because the Russian Federation is not the successor of those republics which were in the composition of the USSR. The Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation on Social Security of 27 February 2009 was developed by both parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of generally accepted principles and norms of international law in the field of social security. The agreed amendments and additions are to remove difficulties established in the practice of implementing the Treaty, while also affecting the changes in Russian and Bulgarian legislation in the social sphere after its entry into force in 2010. In the part concerning the applicable legislation, the provisions shall be refined using the relevant terms of employment relevant to the legislation of the two Contracting Parties. The terms are used in the Russian Federation: "Working activity', which means the activity of dependent workers and "other activities', which covers activities outside the employment of dependent workers, and for the Republic of Bulgaria the work as employed persons and activities as self-insured persons, respectively, which will mean the activities of dependent workers and self-insuring persons. The reasons also stress that the following more important circumstances shall be included in respect of respect for insurance service in the assessment of the entitlement to a pension under the Treaty: - it is envisaged to consider an insurance service acquired in third countries with which the State granting the pension has an international contract, provided that those periods do not coincide during the acquisition; - in order to avoid conflicting interpretation of the provisions, it is explicitly provided that the insurance service acquired on the territory of the other former republics in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is not respected; the calculation of the amount of pension under the legislation of the Russian Federation takes into account the insurance service acquired under its legislation, as well as the territory of the former Russian Soviet Federal Socialist Republic; - a provision is included under which the grading of retirement work is not applied due to restrictions arising from Russian legislation. In addition to the possibility of summation of a third-country insurance internship, in relation to the possibility of paying a pension in connection with a change in the residence of persons in third countries, an explicit provision is included in the Treaty which creates an opportunity for this. It is envisaged that social pensions under the legislation of the Russian Federation and non-employment pensions in Bulgaria, except civil and military invalidity pensions, will be determined and paid in accordance with the legislation of the country where the person lives, provided that he does not receive a pension in the other Contracting Party. A procedure for withholding and recovering overpaid amounts for pensions and benefits shall be established. The maintenance of the excess of the amounts paid will be carried out in accordance with the national law of the Contracting Party which carries it out. The way in which pensions allocated until the entry into force of the Treaty are re-established is more clearly laid down. Those pensions shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on the basis of an application by the person from the first day of the month following his submission but not earlier than the day of the entry into force of the Treaty. Moreover, the total amount of pensions granted by each Contracting Party at that date shall not be lower than the amount of the pension (s) received by the insured person until its (their) review in accordance with the Treaty. In reducing the amount of pensions (pension) resulting from the review, such a review shall not be carried out and the payment of previously granted pension (pensions) shall continue. The revision of the pension under the Treaty is final. The Protocol amending the Treaty in Bulgarian and Russian is annexed to the Bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Hassan Ademov. Mr. Gokov asked a question related to the way the pensions of Bulgarian citizens, worked and lived in the Republic of Comi are regulated. According to the MP, this is a big problem and it has been for a very long time. He also clarified that the Republic of Comi is an autonomous Republic of the Russian Federation and is part of the North-Western Federal District and Northern Economic Area. Mr. Ademov asked a supplementary question on the same subject. According to him, most of the people who worked in Comi were sent by He provided them under Bulgarian law. In addition to this salary, however, they also received remuneration in rubles. Given that they received this remuneration in rubles in the Russian Federation, they also had to pay contributions to that part of their remuneration. There have been numerous discussions on this topic over the years and it is known that there are two different opinions regarding the income insurance received by Bulgarian citizens working in Comi. Some of the opinions say that insurance contributions have been made, others say they have not been imported. According to Ademov, if this case is already specified, the Russian Federation could either pay a pension or not, except for the one under Bulgarian law. In response, Deputy Minister Lazarov said that the Protocol amending the Social Security Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation defined the territorial scope of the countries concerned. The Russian Federation is not the successor of the territories for which the Members of the National Assembly ask. On the other hand, the basic principle of the conclusion of the Treaty in 2009 was the payment of an insurance contribution. The provision of certain or all insurance risks provides for the use of an appropriate insurance payment. If the persons have been provided in accordance with the procedure provided for by the legislation in force in the relevant Russian Federation, then the persons will receive appropriate insurance benefits. In cases where they have not been provided, as is the case of most of the persons sent by a Bulgarian employer, they have been provided by him under Bulgarian law, therefore the Bulgarian pension due is calculated in size and under the conditions that were relevant to this case. With regard to the positions of the Russian side, the answers that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy received from the Pension Fund of Russia are that during this period for these persons insurance contributions were not imported. These are the answers resulting from pension proceedings and the transfer to use certain rights through the Pension Fund of Russia. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 20 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia, No 902-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. I am closing the debate on the proposed bill. We move on to his first vote. Please, voting mode. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation on Social Security was adopted in the first vote. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since there were no speeches at first reading, I propose that the procedure should be passed to a second vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation on Social Security of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u47	Thank you. There are conditions for meeting your proposal. We are voting on the proposal to move on to a second reading of the bill which has just been adopted at the first vote. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, for the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia A single member. He ratified the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u49	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the title of the Bill and the text of a single member. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. With this result of the vote, the Law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation for Social Security of 27 February 2009, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia, was also adopted at second reading. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE WATER LAW. Who will introduce us to the Commission report? Here you are, Mr. Grudev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-45, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019. At a regular meeting held on 27 June 2019 the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, No 954-01-45, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, Mr. Valentin Gruev Director of the Department of Agriculture, Food and Forests and Government of the State Participation and Mrs. Velichka Nenova State Expert in the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of the State Participation and by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova Head of the Department of Land Relations and Comasion and by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Mrs. Svetla Hristova Expert from the Directorate of Water and Canaling. On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. He explained that the submitted bill aims to clear the provisions and to fill the gaps related to the transfer of ownership rights to dams from municipalities in favour of the State adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act in 2018. Currently there are numerous applications from municipalities to the Ministry of Economy, but due to the regulatory gap the whole procedure cannot be moved. The aim is to clear the procedure and to move as quickly as possible towards the transfer of ownership to the State-owned enterprise. Deputy Minister Borisov expressed support for the Bill and clarified that by an act of the Council of Ministers the dams are already defined, which will be renovated and financial resources are provided. Ms. Stoyanova presented the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, stressing that the proposed texts in § 8 of the Law will not achieve the objective of eliminating errors in the properties which have been unlawfully committed on existing cadastral maps. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works representative voiced the ministry's support for the bill. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs from the National Assembly of Manol Genov, Mladen Shishkov, Ivelina Vassileva, Hristo Grudev and Rumen Georgiev. Mr. Genov expressed principled support from the BSP parliamentary group under the Bill, noting that additional texts should be considered in the direction of dropping the sanctions imposed on mayors in the period from last year when they applied for the transfer of ownership until the adoption of this bill. Mr. Rumen Georgiev drew attention to the issue related to the financing of the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision in relation to the responsibilities under the Law. Mr. Shishkov expressed his support under the Bill, noting that in the opinions of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry there are proposals that should be taken into account between first and second readings. Ms. Vasileva thanked the importers for the concern and initiative, stressing that the topic is extremely important for people and critical infrastructure. The rapid adoption of changes is necessary in order to ensure maximum prevention of the harmful effects of water and to limit the risks that could arise from the poor condition of dams. He noted that the legislation was not yet a fact and called on the Ministry of Economy and the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, which have the competence arising from the Law to speed up procedures. Dr. Grudev asked a question about the ownership of the dams after municipalities applied. It was specified that the ownership and, accordingly, the responsibility for the maintenance of these dams still lies with the municipalities. It is necessary to make this public to the mayors and to clarify their responsibilities during the interim period so that there is no misunderstanding on their part. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Water with 20 votes for the Committee on the Environment and Water, without abstention and abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, No 954-01-45, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u51	Thank you, Dr. Grudev. For the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-45, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov At its meeting, held on 26 June 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, No 954-01-45, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019. Representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Honest Veselinov. The bill aims to eliminate the contradictions found in the practice of applying the latest amendments and additions to the Water Act and to fill the existing gaps in the regulations relating to the free transfer of ownership of municipal property dams to the State. The possibility of the right to property on public municipal dams to be transferred free of charge to the State after a decision of the municipal council is settled in an indisputable way. The transfer of ownership is carried out through a donation contract concluded between the mayor of the municipality, whose ownership is the dam and the governor of the district. The relevant procedures for the transfer and acceptance of ownership by the district managers and the provision of the dams for management of the state-owned enterprise "Management and management of dams" are also described. Unable to transfer the right of ownership to public municipal dams for which concession contracts are in place. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Environment and Water and from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing support for the Law. During the discussion, the MPs unanimously supported the need for the proposed amendments to the Law, which will allow for overcoming the problems of transferring the ownership of municipal property dams to state property. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 18 votes for the House, without the opposition and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-45, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u53	Will the bill be presented by the importers? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will be as brief as possible to motivate the bill that we have tabled from almost all parliamentary groups. I dare say that the Law is consensual and it is based on the practice that has arisen over the past few months. You know that last year, we gave the municipalities a period of time to those who wished to claim their wish to the Minister of Economy the municipal dams that are public municipal property to transfer them to the State, so that the State, namely through the State Enterprise, will take care of their management and management of dams. Of course, there was a deadline until October and over 107. 108 municipalities have expressed such a desire, with the number of dams exceeding 2700, but due to purely legal obstacles this process is not complete. Reality aside from applications at this stage, the Ministry of Economy still, respectively, does not have control and there is no real transfer of this property. One of the reasons is in the Law on Municipal Property. 7, para. 2 says there is no way for public municipal property to be transferred, to be transferred to third parties. So this was one of the reasons for making a change and that could happen. Secondly, it is a very important thing to settle the issue of dams already committed by municipalities to concessions, and here the legislator clearly provides the framework in which he says that these dams already granted to concessionaires cannot be transferred to the State. We have therefore also written slightly more detailed texts of the entire procedure how it should be carried out, so that, as soon as possible, all these dams and the desire of municipalities to switch to the State in order to be able to manage them, and from another point of view, we have also expressed concern in the committees in which we examined the Bill, that ultimately the municipalities had the attitude that they would transfer this property, and therefore did not foresee it, or would rather make it difficult for them from a purely financial point of view, to comply with the necessary regulations which they must carry out from the point of view of the management of these dams which are not given to a concession. So an hour should rather this process be completed. I also thank my opposition colleagues here because, yes, they did not sign on the bill, but they supported it in the Committee on Environment and Water. Consenussen is the Bill and I hope that we will support it in the most urgent order to acquire its final form, and that we complete the procedure for transferring the property from public municipal property to a public state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I am opening the debates on the draft in question. I appeal to this House with the following question: there is a debate and a vote on a consensus, as has been established, a law. Can we do this before the break so that we can only have the vote? Thank you for that understanding. I repeat the invitation to speak. I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-45, tabled by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019. The first vote. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. This means the adoption of a first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-45. Dear MPs, before we finish the program for today, I would like to recall the announcement that at 12:00 at St. George's temple there will be the worship of the mortal remains of Dimitar Dimitrov. [[PHONE RINGING]]
