ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please take your seats. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is as follows. I am making a proposal for item four today: Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities to become point one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The rest of the dots are shifting one way back. Please vote on the procedure so made. 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have a decision from the Central Election Commission. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 209-NS/Sofia April 23, 2019 on the announcement of Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov as MP from 29 election district Haskovo. With a letter in my letter. No NS-02-7 of 10 April 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 10 April 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are prematurely suspended the powers of Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev as MP of the 29 election district of Haskovo, erected from the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to CEC Decision No 208-NS of 23 April 2019 HAS DECIDED He declared Mitko Kostadinov Polyhronov, with the respective EGN, as MP from the Forty-fourth National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB from the 29 election district of Haskovo. Please invite the Member of the National Assembly to the Chamber for the taking of the oath. Mr. Polychronov, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u5	Message: On 24 April 2019 the National Assembly was provided with a developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an opinion on the topic of "Possibility for the Development of the Policy for Young People in Bulgaria." By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Education and Science and the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are continuing with the first item we voted on today: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER AND THE REGISTER OF THE LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIAN TARGET. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2019, was adopted at the first vote on 17 April 2019. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I propose to your attention a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 902-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2019, adopted at the first vote on 17 April 2019. The Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Commercial Register. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which the Commission supports. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u10	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u11	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the Civil Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 536, para. 3 sentence first the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u15	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted and thus the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI. The People's Representative Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs on 23 April 2019. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Manev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to propose a procedure first. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please allow Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency for National Security, Georgi Popivanov, Director Specialized Administrative Directorate of Finance Intelligence and Tsvetelina Stoyanova, specialized administrative directorate of the State Agency for National Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Manev. Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u18	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 954-01-30, submitted by the MPs Plamen Nunev, Menda Stoyanova, Manoil Manev and Alexander Ivanov on 23 April 2019. At its meeting held on 24 April 2019 the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 954-01-30, submitted by the MPs Plamen Nunev, Menda Stoyanova, Manoil Manev and Alexander Ivanov on 23 April 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tsipov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Manoil Manev. In his presentation, the importer noted that the main objective of the Bill was to take action to reduce the administrative burden on the entities obliged under the Law by dropping the regime for validating the internal rules for the control and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing by the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. The mandatory validation of the internal rules is replaced by the possibility for the control authorities of the "Financial Intelligence" Directorate to carry out checks on documents to comply with the requirements of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The bill introduces a definition of property. In this way, the assets and valuation rights that are included in this concept will be clearly defined, thereby facilitating the application of the provisions of the Law, both by the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and by the competent authorities under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The Bill proposes amendments to Chapter 8 of Section I of the Law, which provide further clarity on the applicability of the rules, procedures and requirements described therein and on the financing of terrorism. An amendment is made by the Law, which provides that the rules on disclosure of information in the event of suspicion of money laundering will not apply to the information received by or concerning some of their clients in the process of establishing the legal situation or in the case of the protection or representation of that client in or in the case of proceedings regulated in a procedural law which is pending is to be initiated or concluded, including the provision of legal advice for the formation or avoidance of such proceedings, whether that information has been obtained before, during or after the proceedings have been concluded. This exception shall not apply where the lawyer engaged in the money laundering or terrorist financing activities or knows that the client is seeking legal advice for those purposes. In this way, the transposition of the Directive in the Member States of the European Union, such as Germany, England, Sweden, Greece, Slovakia, Poland, Spain and others, is regulated. This practice was found by the Working Group, which also participated representatives of the Supreme Council of Law through the questions addressed to the Member States of the European Union, to align the legislation relating to the transposition of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015. The Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems and the Gambling Act, which aim to address deficiencies identified by the European Commission when transposing the requirements of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015. The envisaged amendment to the Financial Supervision Commission Act, which expressly ensures the possibility of cooperation by the Commission with the European authorities referred to in the Law and on matters concerning the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Appendix to the Credit Institutions Act governs the provision of information to the European Supervisory Authorities by the Bulgarian National Bank regarding the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. The amendments to the Gambling Act make it clear as regards the control functions of the State Gambling Commission as regards compliance with the requirements of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism by the Commission supervised persons falling within the scope of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Separate texts of the Bill overcome any ambiguities established in the practice of implementing the Law, as well as the European Commission in relation to the assessment of the compliance of the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of the Directive. The proposed draft is also intended to clarify the competence of the supervisory authorities for drawing up acts establishing administrative infringements and issuing criminal orders. In accordance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council, amendments to the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems and the Law on Gambling further develop the control powers of the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission and the State Gambling Commission in their capacity as supervisory authorities. In supervising the activities of their supervised entities and establishing administrative violations of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, these authorities will have the power to commit administrative criminal liability. The changes also ensure the obligation of the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission to publish on their websites the administrative sanctions and measures imposed in carrying out control of compliance with the requirements of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. The existence of an administrative criminal function of the supervisory authorities is a prerequisite for a positive assessment to increase the effectiveness of supervision, which is expected to be assessed positively in the forthcoming assessment of Bulgaria by the Committee MONEYVAL's Fifth Evaluation Round of the Council of Europe. The comments received by the SANS and the Ministry of Interior express support for the bill. People's representative Valentin Radev took part in the debates, who highlighted the importance of the Bill relating to money laundering and the fight against terrorism. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on measures against money laundering, No 954-01-30, submitted by the National Representatives Plamen Nunev, Menda Stoyanova, Manoil Manev and Alexander Ivanov on 23 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u19	Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! One of the main objectives of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering is to take action to reduce the administrative burden on entities obliged under the Law by dropping the regime for validating the internal rules, for controlling and preventing money laundering and terrorist financing by the Department of Finance Intelligence. The mandatory validation of the internal rules is replaced by the possibility for the Agency's control authorities to carry out checks on documents to comply with the requirements of Articles 101 to 105 of the Law. Another main objective is the adoption of effective, taking into account the specifics of the national legal system transposing measures in respect of persons exercising legal activities. It is reported that the lawyering and the lawyering profession is subject to a regulation in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where according to art. 134, para. 1 of the Constitution it is free, independent and self-governing, while being constitutionally defined and its main function is to assist citizens and legal entities in the protection of their rights and legal interests, with a view to achieving a higher degree of harmonisation with the specificities of national legislation. On these issues, refined texts of eligibility under Directive EU 2015/849 are proposed and exceptions introduced by the Law in respect of persons exercising the activities regulated in the Law on Law of Law of Law of the Law on Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European Union. The change in art. 2 of the Law is to clarify the process of establishing some of the elements of the definition of money laundering introduced for the purposes of this Law. An explicit definition of property is also proposed to clearly define the assets and valued rights that are included in this concept, which will facilitate the enforcement of this law. By including this concept, as I said, it will be easier to implement the Law on both the part of the obliged entities and the part of the competent authorities. The amendments to Chapter 8 of Section I of the Law provide further clarity on the applicability of the rules, procedures and requirements laid down therein with regard to the financing of terrorism. There are also amendments to the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, the Law on the Commission of Financial Supervision, the Law on Credit Institutions, also in the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems and in the Law on Gambling. All these changes, fellow Members, aim to address deficiencies identified by the European Commission in transposition of the requirements, namely those mentioned above, Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015. The proposed amendment to the Financial Supervision Commission Act expressly guarantees the possibility of cooperation by the Commission with the European authorities referred to in the Law and on matters concerning the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. I will mention only one addition which, in so- proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law against money laundering................................................................................................. 65, para. 2 of the Credit Institutions Act, the provision of information to the European Supervisory Authorities by the Bulgarian National Bank in relation to the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing is regulated. Apart from the texts of the Bill, ambiguities established in the practice of implementing the Law are overcome, as well as in the European Commission in relation to the assessment of the compliance of the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of the aforementioned Directive. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Nunev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I would like to focus on your attention the relationship between the Arms Act adopted yesterday and the adopted Transitional and Final Provisions for amendments to the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. They have two main objectives. The first objective is to reduce the administrative burden of debtors under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, and that is in connection with the adoption of the Internal Rules on Control and Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. The second change concerns cases where the circumstances of the actual owners are not stated for entry in the Commercial Register, the register of non-profit legal entities and the BULSTAT registry. The first amendment concerns § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Prior to the change, it is important to know the entities required by the Law should have brought their internal rules in accordance with the Law within 12 May of the adoption of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. However, with this provision, the administrative burden of the obliged entities is reduced by binding the starting point from which the period begins to run with the publication of the website of the State Agency of National Security and the results of the national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. Pursuant to the amendments adopted, the rules should be adopted within 6 months of publication. Therefore, Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing establishes a minimum harmonisation of national legislation and the requirements of European legislation. I hope that, with the adoption of the proposed bill, we will introduce all the rules in accordance with the requirements of the Directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention and to tell you two important things that happened in this law, albeit yesterday, and which concern extremely many Bulgarian legal entities, traders, all persons who, according to art. 4 of this law is obliged to perform certain functions to identify the risk to money laundering in their activities and in the activities of their clients. I draw your attention because I assume that when you return to your constituencies, you will have questions in this direction and it is good to know what this is about. What these debtors have to do, and the scope of these debtors is quite large, which was expected to do next May, was precisely to draw up their rules, through which for each individual company, according to its activities, to identify the risks and identify the ways in which their employees will identify these risks and had to be sent by 12 May to the State Agency for National Security for Approval. We are now saying that this will not happen until 12 May, that in order for these rules to be effective and really fulfil their role, it is necessary before then for the State Agency of National Security to make and disclose its national risk assessment. In this risk assessment, the National Security Agency will focus the risks, I suppose, on various types of activities, so that when people get acquainted with this national risk assessment, the companies, their managers who have an obligation, can use this focus and transfer it to their rules. In addition, the State Agency of National Security after this national risk assessment will develop rules for example so as to facilitate administrative people and, as we have written it, they will have a 6-month period after the publication of this national assessment to draw up their rules, but will not submit it to the State Agency of National Security for approval. The approval of hundreds of thousands of regulations at the State Agency is an absolutely hard-working task which the small agency will already throw all its forces in this direction, which will again have no effect. But more importantly, all companies need to know that their obligation, even though they will not have a deadline to present at the SANS, is there, they must have such rules on checks, and in cases where they need to inform the SANS, they must have not only the rules, but all the documents that require the Law for them. So when you talk to the companies in your region, tell them this, but pay attention to them that they must really get to know the obligations they have under this law and fulfill these obligations in good faith, collecting the necessary documents. The second thing we did is in terms of the actual owners. Each company should identify its actual owner. According to the definition of the actual owner, it is a natural person. The company's final owner, gave to the specific company, whether the individual owner of a company, partner in the specific company, and so along the company's chain. The text in force so far was actually quite general and quite vague. To be honest, it was given by the Registry Agency and absolutely every Bulgarian legal person or sole trader had to submit such a declaration by 31 May, although in most cases the partners of the specific legal person are natural persons and they are entered in their account in the Commercial Law. This gives rise to a disproportionate administrative burden, so please tell the people in your region, the companies in your region.. Let them carefully read the text and actually assess whether they should submit such a declaration, will only submit it when in the Bulgarian Commercial Register, in the Bulgarian register BULSTAT or in the Bulgarian register of non-profit entities there are no registered natural persons....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, in respect of public limited liability companies, there is absolutely every public limited liability company, whether with bearer shares or name shares, must submit such a declaration for a real owner, as well as those companies whose owners are foreign legal entities, because there is in no way any evidence in our Commercial Register, or in the other two registers of which I mentioned, there is no record of these real owners of natural persons. Another important thing that I would like to draw your attention to is the powers that through this law we give to the Bulgarian National Bank, to the Financial Supervision Commission and to the Gambling Commission, and these are powers aimed at increasing the effectiveness of control. Once again, I say that DANS is a small structure and it could not be fully and anywhere to be seen, even though all these persons under art. 4 have an obligation to provide information to the NSA in the event of identifying the risk of money laundering. But by giving these powers, we practically increase the effectiveness of supervision, such as the Bulgarian National Bank, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Gambling Commission, will not only have an obligation to verify any transaction, any transaction that these financial, banking and non-banking financial institutions that control, supervise and carry out, but will also be able to detect in the event of an infringement by them under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and impose the relevant penalties. This will significantly increase the effectiveness of control, will increase control at all, and I very much hope that we have done so, because the focus of money laundering measures must be concentrated, so to speak, in banking, non-banking financial institutions and gambling operators, where and without the national risk assessment, we all know that this risk to money laundering is the greatest and is quite normal for their supervisory authorities, who know the specifics of their activities, know in detail the accountability that is being conducted and the way in which it is being conducted, to carry out this control by document and, accordingly, I say, to impose the relevant sanctions. Of course, there are many other changes to specify certain concepts and definitions, but I will not dwell on them. I believe that what I have mentioned to you and to which I have drawn your attention is, in fact, the most important thing which concerns most of the Bulgarian companies, legal entities and sole traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Manev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to stop your attention on the bill that we have tabled in that part concerning the lawyers in Bulgaria, the lawyering as a whole, and we must make a very important observation that we, working in working groups for a long time and following the tradition of working groups, in fact very often and very positive is this attempt to reach the truths associated with a law. You see, the transposition of a European legislation into our Bulgarian legislation is super, we are obliged, we accept it, we do it, but when the Constitution of the country has marked a special regime for lawyers when in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the legal profession is protected and is made such that it protects the interests of all citizens of society, we are obliged to comply with that. Here I also welcome the expertise of the representatives of the SANS and the active participation of the Supreme Council of Laws, and of all those colleagues who were in the working groups, in order to get the opportunity to clear and get texts to comply with and to do exactly this harmonisation, this balance of the application of measures against money laundering and terrorist financing as a law, such as legislation, such as real measures and, on the other hand, the interest of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian lawyers. The Bulgarian lawyers with the current amendments to the law already receive their protection in order to be able to carry out, that is to say, their legal ability to fulfil all those functions given to them by their special laws, by the Constitution and by the custom of what they do to safeguard the rights and interests of their customers. Here is the place to say the other thing, that making laws in my opinion in the 44th National Assembly with broad working groups is a practice imposed in the Internal Commission 100%, for the other committees I simply do not have a look, but I am sure that there is also practice very widely, proves that making politics through legislation and not through empty speaking is the way in which we can guarantee statehood and compliance with the principles of statehood in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I put to the first vote the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The representatives of the National Assembly are Plamen Nunev, Menda Stoyanova, Manoil Manev and Alexander Ivanov on 23 April 2019. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we are moving to the third item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL TAXES AND CHARGES. It was introduced by the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Maria Ilieva and Alexander Ivanov on 22 April 2019. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Stoyanova will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u28	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 954-01-29, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 22 April 2019. At a meeting held on 23 April 2019 the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 954-01-29, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by the MP Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. The draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees governs the legal consequences arising from Decision No 4 of 9 April 2019 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. 32 from 2019, which is declared unconstitutional provision of art. 22 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. With the provision of art. 22, p. 2 of the Local Taxes and Fees Act provides for a higher amount of property tax located on the territory of settlements included in the List of Resorts in the Republic of Bulgaria, determining their borders and meeting certain conditions. Real estate tax is an annual tax. In accordance with art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees the tax is determined on the tax assessment of the real estate under art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on 1 January of the year for which it is due and is communicated to the persons by 1 March of that year. In this respect, the property tax due for 2019 has already been determined and communicated to the taxable persons, respectively in some cases paid on the basis of art. 22, p. 2 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees in the version until 20 April 2019 The Law proposes clear legislation regarding property tax for the whole of 2019 and aims to prevent any administrative and judicial disputes between municipalities and taxable persons. In view of legal certainty, guaranteeing the rights of taxable persons and their equal treatment, the Bill provides for the tax on immovable property, regardless of their type and location, for the whole of 2019, to be due in an amount for which the respective ordinance of the Municipal Council has already been set within the limits of 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand on the tax assessment. The proposed bill ensures that no change in the regulations of municipal councils is necessary to determine the specific amount of property tax for the municipality concerned for 2019. With the proposed change, taxable persons for 2019 will owe for all real estate tax equal to the limits set by the municipality in question from 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand imposed on the respective tax assessment. The property tax for 2019, determined pursuant to art. 22, p. 2 in the version by 20 April 2019, recalculate and communicate to taxable persons. The persons prepaid by 30 April 2019 the tax on such properties for the whole of 2019 shall benefit from a discount of 5 percent on the recalculated tax. It is explicitly foreseen that after recalculation of the tax due under para. 2, the amounts overpaid by the taxable persons for the tax on residential property determined pursuant to art. 22, p. 2 in the version by 20 April 2019, will be subject to detention or recovery under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The Law ensures equal treatment and non-discrimination of taxable persons in relation to taxes already paid under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees until the entry into force of the Constitutional Court Decision. After the discussion, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for such proposals, by concluding its discussion with the following results: with 12 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 954-01-29, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 22 April 2019. Following the vote, the members of the Commission agreed on the proposal for a Draft Draft Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 954-01-29, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of Members of Parliament on 22 April 2019 to be voted on exceptionally in a single meeting to which the Draft Report on Second Voting applies.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you are, Mr. Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill for Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 954-01-29, submitted by Menda Stoyanova, Maria Ilieva and Alexander Koychev At a regular meeting held on 24 April 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a Bill supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees No 954-01-29, submitted by Menda Stoyanova, Maria Ilieva and Alexander Koychev on 22 April 2019. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Maria Ilieva. The Law governs the legal consequences arising from Decision No 4 of 9 April 2019 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, declaring the provision of art. 22 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. A clear legal framework on property tax is proposed for the whole of 2019 and aims to prevent any administrative and judicial disputes between municipalities and taxable persons. In view of legal certainty, guaranteeing the rights of taxable persons and their equal treatment, the Bill provides for the tax on immovable property, regardless of their type and location, for the entire year 2019 to be due in an amount for which the ordinance of the municipal council has already set a rate of 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand on the tax assessment. No change in the regulations of municipal councils is necessary to determine the specific amount of property tax for the municipality concerned for 2019. With the proposed change, taxable persons will owe for all real estate tax for 2019 equal to the limits set by the municipality in question from 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand imposed on the respective tax base. The property tax for 2019, determined pursuant to art. 22, p. 2 in the version by 20 April 2019, recalculate it to the taxable persons in a professional capacity and communicate it to the taxable persons. The persons prepaid by 30 April 2019 the tax on such properties for the whole of 2019 shall benefit from a discount of 5 percent on the recalculated tax. After recalculation of the tax due, the amounts paid by the taxable persons for the tax on residential property determined pursuant to art. 22, p. 2 in the version until 20 April 2019, shall be subject to detention or recovery under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes in the House, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees No 954-01-29, submitted by Menda Stoyanova, Maria Ilieva and Alexander Koychev to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u31	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u32	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention again for a few minutes because what we are going to vote on right now is extremely important and concerns the inhabitants of more than 106 Bulgarian municipalities included in the list of national resorts of the Republic of Bulgaria. Each one of us, from you, because I'm not in a municipality on this list, each one of you who has a municipality on the list of municipalities in the resorts must clearly and categorically know and tell your voters what to do. As the Constitutional Court ruled and repealed the norm of art. 22 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, municipalities, based on the previous non-repealed text, by their regulations last year have set a higher tax on those properties which are located in the territory of those municipalities which are not a primary dwelling or which are not leased by their owners, or which are not registered as tourist sites. [[Noise.]] Dear colleagues, it is very important what I say, I want you to understand it there the colleagues who are in the back... Because it's important to people, and you're the conduits to them of what's happening here in the room. These municipalities set a higher tax, reported it to the people, most of them paid it, including with a 5% discount, now the Constitutional Court cancels the provision, but with a date of 20 April. As we all know, constitutional decisions apply from now on, which means that for the period when this tax was set for 2019, notified, paid and so on, the people who did this could not benefit from the Constitutional Court's decision. It is therefore necessary to adopt these three provisions quickly and urgently today, in which to say that this annulment of the Constitutional Court applies from 1 January 2019 and that the municipalities should formally recalculate the tax on all those people who are affected by the repealed provision to communicate it to them, and if these people have paid their tax, repaid it or adopted it, if they so wish, for other obligations. So it is very important to tell people two things: this tax, which they have now paid, will be used to calculate by municipalities the amount at which the tax is paid for the other main housing or other dwellings. Secondly, if they paid it and used a 5% discount, they would not lose their discount, they would also use it in the new amount of tax. And thirdly, they must receive a message from the municipalities about the new reduced amount of tax, but according to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code they are entitled to go immediately to the municipality concerned and to state whether they want the amount to be reimbursed by showing a bank account for it, or to state that they want this amount to be taken into account by their subsequent tax obligations on buildings or waste tax. This each one must do so in order for the municipality to know how to act and recover this overhang. And because the deadlines are short, we all know that from tomorrow the National Assembly is going on vacation, it is no coincidence in the Report that the Budget Committee recommended to the National Assembly and prepared a report for a second vote, so that if there are no other proposals, if there are no colleagues who are against or wish to make any proposals and amendments to the text between first and second reading, we can vote today and at second reading the Draft so that it can enter into force and be used by municipalities and citizens as quickly as possible. I ask everyone in this Chamber, who has any objections or proposals for changes, to clearly and categorically stand up and say it here and now. Otherwise, I will suggest that we use the possibility of art. 80, para. 2 of our rules and vote at second reading the same bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I put to the first vote the Law on Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The representatives of the National Assembly are Menda Stoyanova, Maria Ilieva and Alexander Ivanov. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure to put to the vote my proposal that the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees be voted on at second reading according to art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u35	I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to the second vote of the Bill. Please present the Report to the Commission, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although the Commission report has been attached as a draft to the First Voting Report, I will read the text for the Protocol. The Law on Local Taxes and Fees Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u37	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u38	................................................................................... Paragraph 4c shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: .................................................................................. (1) For 2019 for residential properties under art. 22, p. 2 in the version until 20 April 2019 shall apply the amount of tax as for all other real estates defined within the limits of 0,1 to 4,5 per thousand on the tax assessment in the relevant ordinance under art. 1, para. 2. (2) The property tax for 2019, determined pursuant to art. 22, p. 2 in the version by 20 April 2019, the tax due shall be refunded in an official manner and the tax due shall be communicated to the taxable persons. The persons prepaid by 30 April 2019 the tax on such properties for the whole of 2019 shall benefit from a discount of 5 percent on the recalculated tax. (3) After recalculation of the property tax due for 2019 the amounts paid by the taxable persons, determined pursuant to art. 22, p. 2 in the version by 20 April 2019, to be seized or recovered under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, as in para. 3 the word "supposed' is replaced by "supplied' for tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 78 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u40	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u42	..................................................... The Law shall enter into force on 20 April 2019. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal is adopted, with which we have completed the second vote on the bill. Moving on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT (WorlD BANK) FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE OFFICE OF THE WORLD BANK IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance and Mrs. Gergana Beremska, Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u45	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 74 MPs: 70, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Velkova and Mrs. Beremska to the Chamber. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I present to your attention ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) on providing support for a World Bank office in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2019. At a meeting held on 23 April 2019 the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) for providing support for the World Bank's office in the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister of Finance and Gergana Beremska Director of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova. At a meeting held on 10 April 2019, the Council of Ministers approved the draft Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) to provide support for a World Bank office in the Republic of Bulgaria by authorising the Minister of Finance to hold the negotiations and to sign the Agreement under conditions of subsequent ratification by the National Assembly. The Agreement was signed on 12 April 2019 in Washington, USA. The agreement envisions the government of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide financial support to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the long-term positioning and operation of the World Bank office for shared services and other functions in Sofia for its period of operation on the territory of the country. The World Bank office is expected to include a large number of IT specialists who will replace and extend the services and products supplied by Washington. Other functional units are planned to be structured in the office using shared services in the region and outsourcing of highly qualified and motivated specialists, including in the areas of finance, human resources, health services and others. The establishment of such a structure in Bulgaria will help provide jobs for high-tech specialists and build on potential in sectors with high added value. In addition, our country's prestige will rise in front of the international investor community as an attractive destination for business and investment. The project implementation is planned to be phased out and the first phase will start in July 2019 and will reach the full capacity of 300 jobs within five years. The International Financial Institution predicts net revenue for the State from the activity to reach 2.3 million. EUR in the fifth year. The implementation of the draft act requires additional indicative funds from the state budget as follows: for 2019 1 466, 9 thousand. BGN, for 2020 3 520, 5 thousand. lv. for activities in providing support for the functioning of a temporary location of the World Bank office in the Republic of Bulgaria. The necessary means to provide support for the functioning of a long-term location of the World Bank office in the Republic of Bulgaria are respectively: for 2021. 2 151, 4,000. lv. and for 2022 ..two, two, two, two, three thousand. lv. In the light of the foregoing and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers proposes to the National Assembly to ratify the Agreement by law. After the presentation and discussion of the bill was held with the following results:......................... 11 MPs................................ 11 MPs........................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) to provide support for the World Bank's office in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak, dear Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will give a brief overview of how it came to the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) to provide support for the World Bank's office in the Republic of Bulgaria. Last year, the World Bank team launched preliminary consultations and studies on the conditions in several countries in the region, aiming to establish where there are best conditions for establishing an office for shared services on the territory of Eastern Europe to ensure continuity of information technology services activities, financial management, human resources management and services provided by the World Bank's office. Bulgaria has highlighted itself among the preferred countries for opening the World Bank office for shared services for several reasons: on the one hand, its strategic location, on the other, the stable political and economic environment. The presence of highly skilled labour is also a factor that is not to be underestimated, and the very well-built infrastructure were the factors that contributed to the decisions of the World Bank Board in January this year, when a meeting of the Supreme Management of the institution took a decision to establish the World Bank's office in Sofia. Immediately thereafter, in March this year, the Council of Ministers supported the intention to establish and operate the World Bank's Shared Services Centre in Sofia and authorized the Minister of Finance to conduct the necessary consultations with the Bank on established parameters. By its decision from the beginning of April this year, the Council of Ministers gave the Minister of Finance a mandate for negotiations and authorized him to sign the draft Agreement with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The agreement was signed on 12 April in Washington and was proposed for ratification by the National Assembly by decision of the Council of Ministers on 19 April this year. What does this Agreement provide for? It envisions the government of Bulgaria to provide financial support to the Bank for long-term positioning and operation of the World Bank office for shared services and other functions in Sofia for its period of operation on the territory of the country under parameters that are in line with international standards to ensure the functioning of international financial institutions of the World Bank's rank. This practice has been applied in other countries where the Bank has similar structures and provides exported services. What are briefly the parameters for the five-year period? Firstly, the Agreement will be implemented in several stages and the initial phase will start in July this year until the full capacity of over 300 jobs in a five-year horizon is reached, starting with 120 jobs being opened. It is expected to rent an office with an area of about 1200 sq. m., initially this will be in Sofia Tech Park, and after 2020, the new structure is planned to increase its capacity and employment premises by reaching an area of 4000 sq. m. The World Bank office is expected to include a large number of IT specialists who will replace, extend the services and products that are supplied to a large extent by Washington, and then other specialists such as accounting, traders, human resources, health services, security management and so on are expected to be attracted here. Why is it important for Bulgaria? The establishment of such a structure in Bulgaria will have a positive impact on the economic environment in the country, will contribute to the opening of new jobs for high-tech specialists and to the building up of potential in sectors with high added value. Undoubtedly, this is extremely important for the development of our economy and for the increase of our gross domestic product. The presence of an authoritative organization in the face of the World Bank in Bulgaria will further raise our authority to the international investor community as an attractive destination for business investment. The IT sector is undoubtedly a key industry that supports the development of other economic activities to optimize production processes and, as I have already said, it covers highly qualified jobs with relatively high incomes and has strong potential both to keep the highly qualified people in Bulgaria and to show that there is a favourable environment for development and those young people who have migrated who are currently working abroad and create a prerequisite for their return to Bulgaria. Again, I remind you that in the five-year period for the development of the Agreement 300 people are expected to be employed full-time, highly qualified specialists, and thus the opening of this office to help improve the economic and business environment of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) for providing support for the World Bank's office in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 902-02-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to vote at second reading on the newly adopted bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Please, voting mode. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to a second vote on the Bill. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u52	The Act for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) for providing support for the World Bank office in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u53	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposed name of the Law. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u54	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission pursuant to points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) providing support for the World Bank office in the Republic of Bulgaria, signed on 12 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u55	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text presented to you for art. 1. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u56	This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Orders the Agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u57	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text presented for art. 2. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u58	"Concluding provision' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u59	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. First, I will put to the vote the name of the division which has been presented to you. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the text presented to you for paragraph one. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted by which the Law has also been adopted in a second vote. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE OIL ROOSE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food will present to us Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u60	Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, I first make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mrs. Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u61	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mrs. Krasteva to the hall. Go on, dear Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u62	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Oil Rose Bill No 902-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 18 April 2019 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Vergina Krasteva Representatives of the branch organizations in the sector were also present. The bill was presented by Vergenia Krasteva. The Law governs the public relations related to the registration of rose producers, rosoprocessors and objects for the production of oil rose products. The establishment, cultivation and identification of plantations, buying-in and processing of the colour, production and labelling of the products thereof, as well as the control of the activities of the rose producers and the rose processors, are also regulated. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is designated as competent to conduct state policy in the sector. It is intended that a public electronic register of rose producers, rose processors and oil rose products should be established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. A single application will be made to the municipal agriculture office for the entry. The entry will be made in accordance with the order of application. Registration will be unlimited and no state fee will be due for the certificates issued. An on-the-spot check of the requested areas and sites will be required for initial registration. The refusal will be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. Information on the entry or surrender will be sent by official means to the competent department of the Ministry of Agriculture Food and Forestry. The registration procedure, required documents and requirements for rose producers, rose processors and oil rose products production sites are detailed. When registering, rose producers will provide documents on their legal status, the current contracts for buying the colour, where available, the legal basis for the use of the agricultural land, and for the production of the seedlings and a document of origin of the seeding material. When registering, rosoprocessors will also submit documents on their legal status, signed buy-in contracts unless they process colour from their own plantations and processing contracts where processing is not carried out on their own premises. When registering sites for the production of oil rose products other than the owner's or user's data, information will be provided on an effective permit to use the site, the legal basis for its use, the location and area of the site, including production and storage area, the number and capacity of the distillation plants and technological documentation for the products produced. In the case of initial registration, identification and verification of the site for compliance with the information in the application will be carried out. The change in the recorded circumstances or deletion from the register will be made on the basis of an application submitted or identified non-compliance with the regulatory requirements. Texts regulating the procedure for the elimination of incompleteness and inaccuracies are described. Where registration proceedings are terminated, the applicant will be entitled to submit a new application not earlier than one month. The creation of oil rose plants is regulated. They should be created from certified seed material of proven origin complying with the requirements of the Law on Planting and Planting Material. Rose producers will be obliged to notify the Municipal Agriculture Service and the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control of newly established or eradicated crops. They will also submit a declaration of quantities of colour produced and realised in the contracts concluded. The procedure for carrying out checks is laid down. The purchase of the colour will take place at registered facilities for processing or points of the rosoprocessor on the basis of a written contract concluded between registered rose producers and rose processors. Rosoprocessors will submit information annually on the number, location and working time of the pink purchase points, on the basis of which the mayor of the municipality will determine a time period beyond which the picking and buying will be prohibited. The requirements for the production and labelling of rose oil products and the production of a product with a protected geographical indication are described. The establishment of the Advisory Council on Oil Rose of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry is envisaged to advise the Minister in the conduct of the public policy in the field of rose production and rose processing and to assist him in solving problems in the sector. The composition and functions of the Council are scheduled. The control bodies, their functions and powers, as well as the rights and obligations of the persons examined, are detailed. The relevant administrative criminal provisions are laid down. The transitional and final provisions provide for a one-year period for the development and entry into service of the public register, and within one month of its release, rose producers and rose processors will be able to submit applications for entry. The Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol will be required to carry out the original identification of the plantations within three years and to issue a consolidated report on the identified areas, the type and variety of the oil rose to certify the origin of the rose. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" the question was raised as to how much the bill will be able to guarantee the purchase of the rose-colored works, given the problems encountered in previous years. They described as a disturbing legal definition of the concept of protected geographical indication "Bulgarian rose oil" according to which oil should be produced in the geographical area, including specific, explicitly listed municipalities. According to them, this requirement would put producers in other regions of the country at a disadvantage, which also have appropriate conditions to produce rose oil of quality that meets the required standards. In view of the foregoing, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill, but between the first and second votes they would make proposals to refine the texts. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry explained that the registration of names in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications is carried out by strict rules. The procedure is entirely under European legislation relating to the quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs and in this sense does not depend in any way on the rules of national law. In order for a product to be entered in the European register, it must undergo a pre-study process on climatic conditions and soils, carry out organisationallyleptic and biochemical analyses of the product, a number of documents shall be submitted, including historical evidence, that this product of its particular qualities is produced in these areas. The specific, protected geographical indication "Bulgarian rose oil" was entered in the European register of a group of Bulgarian producers in 2012 and can therefore be used exactly the way it is registered. At the same time, the presence of such registration does not prevent rose oil from being produced in other regions of the country, which will be able to be sold as rose oil produced in Bulgaria. The Bulgarian National Association of Essential Oils, Perfumery and Cosmetics supported the Ministry and explained that the entry of the protected geographical indication of Bulgarian Rose Oil is an exceptional achievement, which is the result of the ten-year work of a large group of producers. They underlined that during the course of the procedure, everything was done possible, including by the Ministry, producers with the necessary evidence to be included in the scope of the protected geographical indication. In conclusion, Commission President Desislava Taneva stated that there is no possibility of changing the scope and criteria of products already entered with a protected geographical indication through national measures, as the procedure is fully regulated in European legislation. He called on the Bill to be supported and noted that the proposed regulation will allow for ensuring the maintenance of the traditional quality of the produced pink color, respectively of the Bulgarian rose oil. In conclusion, after the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill on the Rose of Commerce, No 902-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mrs. Saveklieva. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism under the Oil Rose Bill, No 902-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 24 April 2019 examined and discussed the Oil Rose Bill, No 902-01-20. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests..Vergina Krasteva.. Deputy Minister, Eleonora Kuzarova.. Chief expert in the Directorate of Planting and Organic Production................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... From the Ministry of Economy: Desislava Georgieva The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasteva. According to the importer, the aim of the proposed bill is to create a common legal framework that regulates the essence of all elements of the production process of the Bulgarian rose oil and the accompanying products. To achieve a distinction between the competences and functions of the individual bodies implementing the policy and control of the production process of Bulgarian rose oil and oil rose products. To ensure both interaction and coordination between control bodies at national and local level. Good agronomic practices and the use of certified planting material in creating new plantings to ensure the quality of Bulgarian rose oil. The bill provides for the establishment of a public register for producers, processors and production sites of oil rose products, relief for small producers and traceability and transparency conditions at different stages of production and processing of oil roses. With the introduction of a requirement for contracts between registered rose producers, rose processors and owners of oil rose colour processing sites when buying the pink color, the market environment and the relationship between them will be improved. The implementation of uniform procedures in the implementation of official controls will ensure greater security for participants in the oil rose production and processing process. Appropriate and dissuasive penalties shall be established for persons carrying out infringements relating to the individual elements of the manufacturing and processing process. The existence of a harmonised national legislative framework for the control of the entire chain of production and processing of oil rose is necessary to ensure uniform application of the rules in the sector and the effective functioning of the internal and international market. The production, labelling and control of the product with a protected geographical indication will be carried out in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs (OJ L 343/1 of 2012.), Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1020/2014 of 25 September 2014 entering a name in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications (Bulgarian rose oil (Bulgarsko rosovo maslo) (PGI) (OJ L 283, 2014).). The adoption of the Oil Rose Act will not result in additional expenditure on the budget of the administrative authorities conducting state policy and control in the sector of production and processing of the oil rose. A comprehensive preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. People's representative Yordan Apostolov expressed his views on the proposed bill and stated that only the interests of the rose processors are protected, but not of the rose producers. He also commented on the problems in the technology of distillery work. People's representative Valeri Simeonov proposed that the bill should not be adopted, should be postponed and revised by protecting the rose producers as well. People's representative Adlen Shevked supported the Bill, pointing out the need to ensure the purchase of the pink color and a maximum period between the two votes in the Chamber. The questions asked were answered by Deputy Minister Krasteva, who assured the MPs that the considerations of the two sectors in the public discussion were taken into account and reflected in the bill under consideration. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Oil Rose Bill, No 902-01-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 April 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. On behalf of the importers, Deputy Minister Krasteva will present the bill. You have the floor, Mrs. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The adoption of the Oil Rose Act aims to regulate and settle the public relations in the sector of rose production and rose processing in the Republic of Bulgaria. In recent years, there has been a mass production of plantations with oil roses, for which seeding material is used with undefined and diverse variety composition and hence with different business qualities. Mixing the pink color of different varieties and types leads to the production of pink oil with poor quality and low commercial value. Overproduction of pink color significantly makes it difficult to buy and process fresh pink color. The large quantity of colors cannot be processed technologically in the currently existing processing sites. On the other hand, there is increased competition from countries such as Afghanistan, Turkey, Iran and China. In order to achieve full traceability along the chain of production and processing of pink until final products are obtained, control is provided for the creation of new plantings. I stress here that the existing permanent crops will not be destroyed. The purpose of this control is to ensure the quality of certified seed material that meets the requirements of the Law on sowing and planting material, the establishment and maintenance of a public electronic register, which will include all rose producers, rose processors and oil rose products production sites. Contracts are also provided to be concluded between rose producers and rose processors, which is necessary in order to guarantee the rose producers that eventually their color will be redeemed, and not only that it will be paid at the end. Required requirements for the production and labelling of products with protected geographical indication are also introduced. The control activity on the objects producing oil rose products as defined by the control authorities and their powers is also described. Last but not least, it is envisaged the establishment of an advisory board on oil rose, which aims to communicate and resolve the problems of the whole production level by rose producers, through sale and to final product, i.e. processing. By establishing a legal framework for proving the origin and quality of the oil rose products produced, the state will protect its rose producers and rose processors. Market interest in recent years has led to imbalances. This affected the quality of the rose color produced, hence the production, hence the final price of the finished production. It is normal and it has been communicated with the sector that the state will propose rules for regulation of public relations in a way that will allow the preservation of traditional quality. Opinions, both of rose producers and of rose processors, are reflected in the proposed bill. I think good standards have been found with regard to seed material, as well as for producers to have sustainability in the income they receive. Let us not forget that Bulgarian rose oil is famous throughout the world. This requires State intervention to protect the quality of the final product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Minister. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! There really should be a law. It is absolutely imperative that this law be passed, i.e. such a rose law should be passed, because this sector must be regulated because we saw what we witnessed last year during the buy-in during the campaign. 800 active distilleries with 2500 tonnes of color produced per day. These distilleries do not have any possibility and way to rewrite this colour within the technological period of 12 hours after dialling. Dear colleagues, we do not need this law in this form, that is to say, the political dialogue between the ruling GERB party and us, as participants in this government, is violated. Neither our arguments were respected nor there was any dialogue in order to achieve a balance and this law to be corrected, but it was necessary, as you can see, in the extremely short period of time there has not been 12 days since it was first introduced, and it is already in the first reading room. In all other laws, I wish them such a rapid path of development in less than 12 days to reach the hall. Because of the lack of this dialogue, our group will not support this law at first reading. Yesterday, in his statement in the Economic Commission, we explained very clearly who protects whom.. protects a handful of people Roso Processors, and small producers of the portal for public discussion have given their clear and clear assessment. Now I don't want to comment on the terminology they used, anyone can get acquainted with these materials. Yesterday was also not presented the opinion of the Ministry of Economy, which is negative under this law. At the moment the opinion of the Ministry of Economy is not uploaded to this law, but if you wish, you can get acquainted with this opinion of the Ministry of Economy and see that it is absolutely negative on the submitted bill. Please, colleagues, let's be reasonable! We say that there should be such a law, let the Law be withdrawn, corrected, balanced, all interested parties involved and really enter so that we can defend this product, which Bulgaria is proud of for centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u69	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u70	Dear Mr. Apostolov, I cannot agree with you on the attitude of the Political Party GERB towards its coalition partner. The bill is currently at first reading. Entering the hall, it cannot be corrected in advance, corrected by adopting a certain position by consensus. All this happens in the procedure between first and second reading with suggestions that, if you have willpower and desire, you can enter. As regards your note for the short term. Under the Rules of Procedure on which the National Assembly is working, no term has been shortened. If there is such an opportunity at the moment, regardless of the outcome of the vote, no reduction of the deadline will be proposed by GERB. In this sense, the move of this bill is in accordance with the procedure which is the usual procedure under the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thirdly, you gave a summary that the Bill should have. There absolutely must be! The government made such a commitment to the rose producers and processors last year and fulfilled its commitment, but you did not give specific arguments that you do not accept, and you called for the rejection of the bill, provided that our general opinion is that we need such a bill. After all, the aim is to protect the production of the product that comes out of Bulgaria because its protection means priced market, respectively income on everyone in the chain, so that everyone can take their informed decision on how to participate in the vote. You only said one sentence. I think that if we all really think that we should and need such regulation of public relations, there is plenty of time between first and second readings, no one will shorten the time limits, they are according to our Rules of Procedure to be made, discussed and adopted as we think they should be. With regard to the preparation of the bill. There are sufficient data for the participation of NGOs, including those who attended the Committee on Agriculture involved in its discussion. Absolutely between first and second reading will make certain additions and the worrying moments will be cleared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Is there a second line? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Apostolov! I do not agree with your statement for the reason expressed by Mrs Taneva in her line. Indeed, you did not mention specific shortcomings and weaknesses of the Law, but as far as we have heard from the Report of the Commission on Agriculture, Food and Forestry, in the meeting you have expressed an opinion that this bill is actually done not so much for rose producers, rose oil producers as for processors. In this sense, since you disagree, you should develop this thesis and explain why you come to these conclusions, because, if this is true, then in this case, the Law in this form will actually put one group in a discriminatory position compared to the other group, as it will create conditions for the development of the rosoprocessing industry only, without paying enough attention to rose production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u74	Mrs. Chairman, first of all, to respond to Mrs. Taneva. Yes, you're right, Mrs. Taneva, that the Bill should enter at first reading and then make notes on it, but it could have been prepared better, you know? At the moment, this law protects a handful of people processors without taking into account what the rose producers want. In contact with people in this area. Small producers do not want this law in this form. This is known by your colleagues from GERB, who are from these places. You know damn well they know that thing. So if we have to go into the specifics, first, I want to ask: what does the term "identification" mean in this law? Ask the importer? There's no such term as "identification"! The Agency, which must carry out this control, has neither a method of identification of the plantation, because, according to Ordinance No 24 on the seed material of the seedlings and essential crops, there is a precise methodology and the word "identification" is not available at all. Not to mention not to seize the right of colleagues from the DPS and to say that this law is a complete copy of the Tobacco Act, almost only replaced certain texts. We make it difficult for people and instead of going to look at their crops, we burden them with weights, fines, administrative deadlines to go to register, declare, for this fine, for that fine, and that is an absolute administrative burden. You think that we are hardly opposed to having a law that regulates these relationships. On the contrary, there should be this law because we saw what happened last year, but what we were offered is not good, I do not say: best is not good at all for the industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Allow me to read you some information before we continue with the speeches: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the draft Law on Truffles, No 954-01-31. "The representatives of the National Assembly are Alexander Sabanov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Kalin Popovski, Yordan Yordanov, Iskren Veselinov and Atanas Stoyanov. We continue with the speeches. Are there any speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The fact is undisputed, and we all know that our country has centuries-old traditions in the cultivation of the oil rose and the production of various oil rose products. Bulgarian rose oil is very popular, famous and with great traditions not only in the EU countries, but also in the US, Australia, Japan and the Middle East. In those areas where there is really a growing oil rose, this has become a tradition and a family business that is their livelihood. I would like to remind you that a hearing was held last year in the Committee on Agriculture and Food at the request of representatives of rose producers in relation to the tensions created during the campaign. During the hearing, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests expressed a position that the problems in rose production and, in particular, related to low buying prices in pink color are due to the overlay of different circumstances over time. On the one hand, given the market attractiveness of rose production over the last two years, there has been an increase in plantings of 22%, even without including the areas in which full fertility will occur in the coming years. By 2018, the rose plants in our country were 41 thousand. Decares processed by registered farmers, but there were also a lot of areas that were processed by unregistered farmers. As a result of the good climate conditions last year, except that there was an extremely good harvest of roses, blooming and fertility came almost simultaneously. This created extreme pressure given the need for this color to be robbed, transmitted and processed by distilleries within the same day in order not to lose its oil qualities. On the other hand, the daily capacity of distilleries to process the purchased quantity of colour is insufficient. Then the minister explained that the practice of processors is to conclude contracts with traditional producers using certified seed material from Bulgarian oil rose, and these contracts practically cover their processing capacity. Accordingly, the main problem is with rose producers without contracts for which, in the transitional years, there was a market in view of the deficit in the pink color. All of the above-mentioned circumstances have led to both the inability to redeem and revise the entire harvest and to a reduction in the buying-in prices compared to previous years. Other problems according to the rose producers are those related to the specific nature of the work, to the limited demand and supply of original and high quality products from Bulgarian oil rose on the market. It was noted that our country still holds one of the first places in the quality of rose oil, but serious competitors from Afghanistan, Turkey, Iran appear on the market and therefore necessary measures should be taken to ensure the quality of rose oil. In this regard, even during the hearing, rose producers insisted on drafting a bill that regulates the relations throughout the chain from production to processing the rose of oil and which regulates the contractual relations between rose producers and distilleries to ensure that the crops are only from certified seeding material of Bulgarian oil rose, as well as to distinguish correct distilleries from those working with imported raw material. In the course of public consultations, their views on the bill expressed both the representatives of the rose producers and the representatives of the rose processors. As a major problem, price undercutting and pink theft are again highlighted, which in turn leads to a collapse in the confidence of the participants in the process and to strong tensions in the sector. It turns out that intermediaries and speculators actively participate in unregulated mobile redemption points during the campaigns and compromise the price and quality of the pink color. Therefore, procedures and measures are laid down in the Bill, which will eliminate a large proportion of those individuals who buy and process pink colour as the requirement for the preliminary conclusion of contracts between registered rose producers and rose processors is provided. Additional requirements are also provided for distilleries themselves and pink color buying points. It is envisaged that the purchase of pink colour is carried out only at registered processing sites or at processing points on the basis of written contracts concluded between the producers and rosoprocessors entered in the register of the Ministry, which will also contribute to improving the quality of the manufactured products. In other words, with the help of this law, relations with the purchase and processing of the pink color will be arranged, which will only be carried out by representatives of the processing companies and will eliminate the purchasers. In this way, and in the case of favourable climatic conditions and normal market relations, producers will be calm and protected thanks to the contracts concluded with processors on the security of the redemption of the pink colour. The inclusion of the Institute of Rose and Essential Oil Plants in carrying out checks to identify oil rose plants will ensure objective, comprehensive and strict control over the production of high quality and pure products such as rose oil. The bill provides for the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests to be the competent authority to conduct the state policy in the field of registration of the activities of the sites where a colour of oil rose will be processed, as well as in the field of production, labelling and control of a product with the protected geographical name "Bulgarian rose oil." It is also intended for the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to set up an Advisory Council on Oil Rose, which will include representatives of organizations of rose producers, rose producers and traders of oil rose products, which will assist the Minister in solving issues in the field of rose production and rose processing. With the representativeness and participation of all stakeholders, the activities of the Advisory Council will ensure objectivity and consideration of all points of view in the process of identifying the weaknesses, the problems encountered and finding adequate solutions for them. In view of the above, honourable Members, I call on you to support the proposed Oil Rose Bill in the first vote, because it is an extremely important Bill, which must solve the case created during the past calendar year and last harvest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? Here you go, first line, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yankov, I am very pleased with what I have heard from you, as I would probably be pleased with the other speeches written by the Ministry and given to MPs here to read them in order to see how beautiful the Law is. No, the law really isn't good, and we are absolutely not going to support it. So whether or not three other MPs will speak will read a single piece of paper prepared by the Ministry, it does not matter at all. However, between first and second readings, if you think that the Law will pass today, we will have our proposals, but do not waste. That's why I went out to tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u79	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov, for the back. However, let us recall that no one can restrict Members of the National Assembly to read, to present these as they see fit.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Sabanov, I think you know very well, and if not, let me tell you that I am from a constituency where the oil rose has great traditions and history. Last year, when this case was created, I didn't say a problem, I was present and I went to a place to know how things are and what the problem is, what the case is and how you can get out of this situation. So in this case, from what you've said, I feel a little affected, because what I've put out here, from this tribune, I've prepared it and I know what the problems are and what it is...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u81	Unlike some who have not read the Law!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u82	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u83	That's their problem. So I disagree with your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any other statements? Please, you have the floor. Here you are, dear lady. They'll continue the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is hardly anyone to challenge the fame and authority of the Bulgarian rose oil. For years, rose oil along with yogurt has been perceived as an emblem of a product known and identified with Bulgaria. It is a well-known fact that by the end of 1989 all production and processing capacities were state-owned. The export of rose oil is a state monopoly and the majority of oil rose plantations is cooperative property. After the change, the ownership of the land and the processing enterprises is quite natural to change the profile of the rose production industry. Today, the production of pink and pink oil and oil products from oil rose is now a family business and problems related to the supply and demand of original finished products, as well as competition with countries such as Afghanistan, Iran, Turkey and China, impose the intervention of the state by creating a legal framework to ensure the origin of manufactured products from a rose other than those with a protected geographical indication. This legislative initiative is necessary and particularly important because of the processes that have occurred in recent years for mass production of oil rose plantations with diverse variety compositions and different qualities. There is often overproduction of pink colour that cannot be processed technologically from existing processing sites at certain times. It is established that there are no uniform requirements in respect of distillation plants and process documentation for production, which in turn leads to a diverse quality of production and claims for the name offering products to end-users. All this evidence proves the existence of the main problem, namely the lack of regulatory regulation in the creation of oil rose plants, and complete control is required for the different stages for the production of food and cosmetic products that are involved in the processing of pink, as well as coordination and interaction between the competent control authorities at national and regional level. Currently, in the provisions of the Law implementing the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products of the European Union and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1020/2014 of 25 September 2014 entering a name in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications, only production of the product with a protected geographical indication is regulated.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Outside the scope of these documents are all the other products of the oil rose. Following numerous discussions, it has become clear that there is a need to register rose producers, rose processors and oil rose flower processing sites in order to ensure the safety of oil rose products obtained in cases where they are added to foods, cosmetics or medicinal products. With the taking of concrete actions specified in the Bill, it is expected that unfair practices related to the offering of imitation oil rose products such as those produced in Bulgaria are prevented. The proposed Draft Oil Rose Act aims to ensure transparency, traceability and predictability of production and processing of oil rose in the country. This will be achieved by establishing a public register for rose producers, rose processors and oil rose colour processing sites and by introducing uniform requirements for rose producers, rose processors and pink color processing sites. At the same time, coordination between the control bodies at national and local level shall be regulated and the competences and functions of the departments implementing the policy and control of the production and processing of the oil rose and the receipt of products of oil rose other than the product with the protected geographical indication of Bulgarian rose oil. It is particularly important that the requirement for the use of certified seed material is introduced in the creation of new plantations with oil rose, which will ensure the quality of the raw material. For existing plantings is provided within 3 years of the entry into force of the Law. The Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control will carry out the initial identification of the plantations of oil rose. As a result, the areas, type and variety of oil roses will be identified. The Executive Agency will issue a consolidated report confirming the origin of the pink colour upon its purchase in the campaign in the following calendar year. Another essential and important element of the new legal regulation is the regulation of the relationship between producers and processors through the inclusion of preliminary contracts, which are expected to improve the pre-market environment, to plan and ensure the buying-in of pink colour and the traceability of rose oil produced and oil rose products. The draft Oil Rose Act also provides for the imposition of sanctions for persons who have committed infringements related to the individual elements of the production and processing process of the oil Rose colour. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, those affected by this bill are currently natural and legal persons with 1159 farms with oil rose plants. The creation and adoption of this new legislation will introduce more effective regulation, control and lightening of the production and processing sector of oil rose in Bulgaria, as well as the establishment of a common framework to regulate and control all elements of the process of cultivation and production of the final product. It is expected that the full effect of the actions taken under the Law will be achieved at the earliest in three years when, apart from the identified regulated relations between producers and processors, there will also be another significant result My fellow Members, I believe that you will all agree that the existence of a harmonious national legislative framework for the implementation of controls throughout the chain of production and processing of oil rose is extremely important and necessary to ensure the uniform application of the rules in the sector and the effective functioning of the external and international market. I therefore call on you to support the first voting draft Oil Rose Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? There are no lines. A few more speeches have been put forward, which is why I am giving 30 minutes of rest, after which the debates will continue. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u87	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing to deal with the debates. Declaration? You have the floor for a declaration, Mr. Bikov. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov wants the floor.]] Mr. Shopov, I'll give you the floor after the declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are here on the eve of the brightest Christian holiday of the resurrection of Christ when all Orthodox Christians look to themselves. In this Passion Week, we must realize what our Lord Jesus Christ has done for us, not for himself. We greet all Christians and wish a light welcome to the resurrection of Christ! We use the occasion to highlight our commitment and our respect for the Orthodox religion, which for us is in the center and of the Bulgarian national identity. Christian religion was what preserved the Bulgarian nation in the last 1000 years, when the Bulgarian state did not exist. Christianity was the only light that gave us hope that someday the Bulgarian state could rise. And the Bulgarian state rose thanks to the efforts of those Orthodox clergymen who stood at the beginning of the Renaissance and remembered when and why the Bulgarian national community existed. The Bulgarian statehood is basically made up of people we call saints today. The sacred work of the brothers Cyril and Methodius, who are monks and religious missionaries, is at the heart of the Bulgarian national identity. Their case was an occasion for the Bulgarian nation to rise in the middle of the XIX century. The Bulgarian language is the result of the efforts of Christian clergymen, of the book schools during Simeon the Great. The new Bulgarian statehood has not forgotten the Orthodox Church in the last 140 years. In good times and bad times the Bulgarian Orthodox Church was always with the Bulgarian people and gave hope in difficult times, and in times of success he celebrated with him. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB I wish a bright welcome to this bright holiday! I call on all of us to be more humble, to find out where we are wrong, because everyone is wrong, to truly repent and not repeat our mistakes. We live with the consciousness that we are sinful, and this is the mind of every Christian. Welcome to the holidays! We wish health and success to all other representatives of the Bulgarian nation who do not confess Christianity, but together with Orthodox Christians will celebrate this holiday! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Finally, after all these years, we come to this law. I was a young lawyer even during communism there was talk of the need for a law on rose oil. Then, when I was a MP from the UDF at the beginning of the transition, there was also talk of such a law. Last year, the adoption of Special Rules for rose pickers was a good indication, as we at the Ataka have repeated what we have spoken and commented on this issue in the Fortyth National Assembly. As early as 2005, in the various editions of the National Assembly, we raised the issue and talked about adopting such a special law. I'm surprised there's obstructions today. Right, the DPS don't care about that law. If it were anything to do with tobacco producers, they'd be here all headed by their formal leader. BSP supposedly have the Bulgarian rose emblem and they are not there. I think they would have been very helpful in adopting this law. In the end, all lawyers know that when public relations are very important to society and to a people, they are brought before a brace with a special law. The fact that Bulgarian agriculture is intensive agriculture, according to the criminal rules for our accession to the European Union, does not mean that we cannot target and specifically take care of some of the agricultural sectors. Such is the situation and the rose production, which is specialised and especially production, falls within the overall intensive model of agricultural production. These are the two biggest crimes of the transition, in fact, of the last decades in Bulgaria. The first is the violent collectiveization of the land after 9 September 1944 and the second scary crime against Bulgarian agriculture are the extensive models and views of Bulgarian agriculture adopted by the accession rules. I completely disagree with the opinions and obstructions of my colleagues Sabanov and Apostolov. They are of equal Dobrudja, where agriculture by nature and character is extensive agriculture. 20 levs per decare: 100 decares; 1000 decares; 20 thousand; 1 million The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. The bill is simple. Some companies are charging them. Right, and this is misery, considering those 20 leva. compared to generally four times the money and amounts received from other European countries. It's a rough bill, but it's clear there. Perhaps in an equal Dobrudja and at this end they do not care, they do not care about the other dozens of sectors suffering in our agriculture, which are underfunded and neglected. If we accept special laws for some of the sectors, it is precisely why we need to get them into better positions, to intensify agriculture as a whole despite what we are worried about by the European Union, which is criminal and which should soon be corrected with annex, to take care of those sectors that are emblematic and extremely important for Bulgaria. If this is the formula in Dobrudzha and they do not care about all the other dozens of industries, I will tell you that in the Plovdiv and especially in the Stara Zagora region this issue has been addressed for decades. Bulgarian MPs from various national meetings are waiting for its resolution. It finally comes down to this solution. Some things have passed through committee and do not like some colleagues, but this is the technology of the legal process between the two readings many things can be changed, corrected and the Law, as tabled and adopted by the relevant committees, become better. What's wrong with the Bill like this? The bill deals with the most important aspects of rose oil production, rose growing, starting with the areas envisaged for this, seeding material, rose picking, processing in specialized enterprises, rose trading. The wretched situation to which Bulgarian roses were brought is largely due to the fact that there was no special law, i.e. special care for it. And that is why Bulgarian rose production decreases every year as a volume, as incomes, rural farms are being destroyed because there is pressure from abroad from countries like China, such as Iran, like Turkey, who are taking care of this industry. They are competitive, they push our producers and eventually we see the result. They'll understand me best as Mr. Iankov, who made a statement here. He is from an electoral area where the problem is known, clear and will be able to proudly state that he has contributed to solving the problem before his voters. These are more than a thousand enterprises in the industry where tens of thousands of Bulgarians are employed. I will address you, Mr. President, I am worried about the quorum of whether we will be able to collect the required number. Take care of it!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u91	Yeah, and time's progressing a lot...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u92	And the governors of GERB also take stock in this regard, so that something fatal does not happen, which has happened in this hall, a desired bill cannot pass and start with a false start to its viewing. In this hall before the feast, that can happen. I have these concerns. I will end with a wish to all Bulgarians for a light welcome to the greatest Christian holiday. Alive and well! Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, dear Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Shopov, we are interested in this law and I am here for a reason. At least from you as a lawyer I expected you to use the terminology purely forewords with rights, obligations and settlement of public relations. At least from you! From the speeches of colleagues before the holiday I felt that we are in a literary club for the praise of the Bulgarian rose and nothing in essence! Dear colleagues, the Bulgarian rose has received its dignity with and without this law hundreds of years before us! A series of 100 adjectives where there is no action, no action that does not take effect, will not solve anything. Provided that we are in the legislative hall of the Republic of Bulgaria and it is spoken as in a literary club, dominated by adjectives, dominating a praise of the Bulgarian rose, nothing will be done in essence! In essence, fellow Members, this bill was born on a specific occasion and on a particular problem. The colleagues from Plovdiv, from Stara Zagora, know very well the history of this bill. He was born from the problem of buying the pink color last year, as a result of which it was promised that there would be a law to solve the problem and not to repeat it. One attempt, a good try, a good start. In this bill, I see two good things. One is that the redemption organisations and processors are obliged to buy pink colour only from producers with whom they have contracts. Secondly, the emblem registered in the European Union "Bulgarian rose oil" to be used in a certain, regulated way, which will not allow abuse. Unfortunately, good things stop until these two moments in the Law. From there, some texts of a wishful thinking begin. As a colleague said, who spoke before the break that he noticed that models were borrowed from the Tobacco and Tobacco Act. Yes, it is planned to make a register of producers of pink color........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So what if we make a register of all those who are in the industry, put them in one list, perform a hundred percent for the needs of statistics; acquire clarity about who are in the industry by name, by dekari, by crop, by land? So what? These registers are being made at the moment and under quite other rules, for example when registering farmers. The question is not answered because of what was the Law made to arrange the relationship between buyers and sellers? I'll give you an example. Recently, the Ministry of Agriculture launched a procedure to pay off tobacco producers' outstanding money from one tobacco buyer. Colleagues, these tobacco producers also had contracts with Mihailidis. And by not paying Mihaidis to tobacco producers, did the tobacco and tobacco law solve the problem? No, you didn't! He's not gonna solve it here either. If one of the distilleries buys a pink color tomorrow and doesn't pay for it, this bill won't solve the issue. You know perfectly well that last year there was a problem with the realization of rose oil. Our distilleries had large quantities of unsold rose oil in stock, and when last year at that time came the new season for buying color, naturally they bought less color, naturally bought at lower prices and naturally the problem arose! As the Law is written, does this law solve this problem? No, it doesn't! Yeah, we'll have records, we'll have clarity, but the problem remains pending. With the introduction of these registers, we are putting an additional administrative burden on the business. You have heard yourself what is the procedure for registering a number of documents that are submitted at a certain time to register as a producer, as a processor and so on. A very regulatory burden we introduce. It's a new national register. And all of this is against the backdrop of the idea of easing the business, easing the producers. We're doing the exact opposite right now. In the Law, colleagues, I don't see the role of branch organizations anywhere. There are no mention of two articles, two paragraphs, two paragraphs, in which it is clear what branch organizations do. Next, the Board of Appeal, the idea of the creation of which is borrowed by the Tobacco and Tobacco Act, is hollow, there are some monitoring functions indicating and nothing more. If you want this law to work, I suggest that, as it was in the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act, this Advisory Council should have the right to propose, through the Minister of Agriculture to the Council of Ministers, withdrawal of a licence, withdrawal of distillery rights, which did not pay a rose producer. Isn't that what we want? There are no such clauses in the Law! If we really want it to work, please ask the importers to fill with content the Law and this advisory board to really have rights, powers to decide unresolved relations as far as possible. In the Law, colleagues, nowhere do I see any special, especially aiding the production of pink color by the state. As you know, rose production is not supported by either the European funds or the national funds, but at the same time the previous one said that the Bulgarian rose is the emblem of Bulgaria! Colleagues of importers, the emblem of Bulgaria, if we do not support it through this law, through explicit national means, obviously European will not give us, but by national means to help the emblem and really be the emblem and not hollow talk! Why don't we even go further? Here's a more revolutionary idea: through the rose oil processors, because rose oil is a special product, like tobacco, not to make a guarantee fund by way of deductions from them, which fund, once funds are accumulated for possible non-payment by a rose processor to a rose producer, to pay this rose producer? It may be revolutionary ideas, but after all, that's the point of this bill, isn't it? Last but not least, I did my best to look at the public debates that were in time. Colleagues, the Bill is based on 90% proposals of the Association of Essential Oils in Bulgaria and only 10% proposals of rose producers! I implore this bill to have particular attention to supporting, encouraging and easing the activities of rose producers, because they are the small part of the chain. Rosoprocessors, distilleries are the bigger player. We have opposed David against Goliath, and we wonder what the outcome will be! The result will be the same as in the Tutun sector. Unfortunately, things are going that way. The result is going to be the same here! And if this is like a trend, colleagues, in every protest, in every single problem, for each culture to make a separate law, I think this is not the right approach. From now on, I'm telling you that next year we're gonna be making law on lavender, because next year it's gonna blow up the lavender story. There's lavender from the Sub-Balkan Fields, colleagues, there's a million acres in Dobrudja, and it doesn't belong there! It won't be of the same quality, the French will refuse to buy the butter, there will still be a drop in prices, there will be protests and next year we will write a law on lavender. From now on, let's write a law on essential-fat cultures, so we can include inside and other things and solve the problem more globally, not for any protest, for every problem to write a law! If it blows up in the Rhodopes next year, we don't have to write a law on potatoes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? Check the time of the United Patriarchs, I think they don't have time and maybe we should increase it. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please extend our group's time further.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u97	It's realized.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u98	I'd like to make a reply to Mr. Abas, because I respect his views very much. They are usually professionally related to practice. In this case, he's absolutely right! I am now wondering why we are not discussing the law on Bulgarian mint?! There are also very serious problems. I have observations on that. The problems are very serious with the Bulgarian mint, and we do not consider them. Maybe it's the wrong term for "Bulgarian rose oil." It is not accurate because it does not mention which varieties form Bulgarian rose oil and then let's talk. I believe that the Law is really being imported under the pressure of the lobby of the producers who call themselves association and I do not know what. This is one NGO and they have no legal significance, but they are better organized than others. Mr. Abase, I want to tell you that all that you are building as a way of impact and improvement by such laws is related to the lack of branch organizations in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria there is no law for branch organizations in agriculture, there are no entities to stand and be institutionalized to participate in the discussion, and there, who more calls, he accordingly imposes this opinion. I ask you because I have been in such a French distillery, which works in Bulgaria, what does it export from Bulgaria.. Bulgarian rose oil or base oil, which then sells as French? Who's keeping tabs on what's going on with that butter? Nobody. I believe that for now we must stop this harmful application of this law. It is harmful because, I say, it is discriminatory for the producers of Bulgarian mint.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Any other lines? [[Noise and lines.]] No backs, Mr. Abas. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? I don't see any other speeches. Please take your seats. Let's wait for the coworkers to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote the Oil Rose Bill, No 902-01-20, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Did you make it, Mr. Nikolov? These panels are increasingly difficult and harder to vote on. Vote 98 MPs: 88 against 8, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u100	Dear Mr. President, thank you, first of all, to all those who supported the Law, for which everyone agreed that there is a need for such a law. In the course of the debates, proposals have been made that can find a place between first and second readings, let us give enough time to do so. I propose that we extend the deadline to the maximum between first and second readings in order to make a good final bill. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-25.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the deadline. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. I wish all the bright and warm holidays, to look inside ourselves and come back a little better! The next regular plenary session shall be on 8 May at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
