ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I'm going to make a few announcements: Application to the President of the National Assembly by Yavor Bozhilov Notev, Member of the National Assembly: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly state my clear desire to leave the parliamentary group in which I am currently a member. Following is an application from Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova, Member of the National Assembly: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly state my clear desire to leave the parliamentary group in which I am currently a member. The following is Nikolay Veselinov's application: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly state my clear desire to leave the parliamentary group in which I am currently a member. The last application is from Stanislav Todorov Stanilov "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 15, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly state my clear desire to leave the parliamentary group in which I am a member. Messages: First, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its own orders, has authorised: 1. The passage across the territorial sea, the non-military stay to the inland waters and a visit to the port of Varna for the period from 18 to 22 August 2019 including vessels belonging to the Ukrainian Navy. The visit is related to the conduct of training in the Black Sea Aquatory, included in the Training Program of cadets from the Academy for the preparation of officers for the Ukrainian Navy in Odessa. 2. The passage across the territorial sea of a military vessel from the composition of the Ukrainian Navy. The passage through the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria of the ship from the composition of the Ukrainian Navy is related to sailing from Georgia to Ukraine. 3. The weather from 17th to 25th August 2019 on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria conducted a joint Bulgarian-American preparation of the 68th Brigade of the Special Forces with the army of the US Land Forces in Europe. Forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and helicopters from the US Land Forces in Europe were involved in the preparation. 4. The passage across the territorial sea, non-military residence in the inland waters and a visit to the port of Varna for the period from 14 to 19 September 2019 including a training vessel of the members of the Republic of Turkey's Navy. The visit takes place within the framework of the Programme "Maritime Teachings and Improvement 2019" which is organized and held by the Higher Naval School of the University of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey. 5. In the implementation of a Plan for bilateral military cooperation between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for 2019 from 2 to 5 September 2019 a joint Bulgarian-Greek exercise will be held on the territory of the two countries. The training will be attended by aircraft with their crews with state weapons and, if necessary, military engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no weapons to provide technical assistance and removal of the aircraft of the Republic of Greece's Air Force and the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, the passage and residence of forces and funds from the Air Force of the Hellenic Republic on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria on the territory of the Hellenic Republic are permitted respectively. Secondly, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that he has authorised by his own orders: 1. For the period from 9 to 20 September 2019 including to hold a joint Bulgarian-American training in the area of study polygon Formation of the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will take part in the preparation with personnel, military personnel with state weapons, equipment and equipment from the Military Formation. 2. For the period from 8 September to 18 September 2019 including to conduct a multinational exercise in the area of the school polygon.Viza The training will take part in the formation of the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with personnel of servicemen with transport equipment, equipment and equipment without military supplies from the Military Formation. The multinational exercise is planned to mark the tenth anniversary of Albania's accession as a full NATO member. 3. For the period from 9 September 2019 to 1 October 2019, including in the US Force Joint Training Centres in Germany, joint rotation training (study) should be held. In the preparation will take part formations from the land troops and the 68th Brigade of Special Forces with personnel from military personnel with state weapons, equipment, equipment and equipment. 4. For the time from 1 to 29 September 2019 a multinational exercise will be held at the International Peace and Security Centre in the Republic of Ukraine. In the exercise will take part and formation of the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with personnel, soldiers with personal equipment without weapons and ammunition. The notifications were received from 8 August to 2 September 2019 with input numbers from 903-09-44 to 903-09-52 and provided to the Defence Committee. Messages: In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets as of 30 June 2019 from: the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Economy, the State Agency. In full volume, the SANS report is located in the register of National classified information, the Information Security Department, Knyaz Aleksandar I The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the period from 14 August to 22 August 2019, the National Assembly received: - Audit report on the compliance of the implementation of the Action Plan to the Deinstitutionalisation Vision for the period 2009 to 2015. The audit is entrusted to the Court of Auditors on the basis of art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors by decision of the National Assembly, adopted on 7 September 2016, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 71 from 2016; - Audit report with an opinion of the Court of Auditors for audit of the budgetary expenditure of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018; - An audit report with an opinion of the Court of Auditors for an audit carried out on the Survey for the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2018; - An audit report with an opinion of the Court of Auditors on compliance audit carried out in the financial management of the Center for Urban Mobility (CSC) for the period 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials are sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received: Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 22 July 2019 until 21 August 2019 and Protocol No 31 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 23 August 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 31 July 2019 from the National Centre for Parliamentary Information received: a report from a survey conducted on the topic "Public attitudes towards violence" held between 4 and 12 July 2019 and a report from a study on the legislative activities of the Forty-fourth National Assembly for the period from 19 April 2017 to 26 July 2019. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly, an annex to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, the reports and the annexes thereto are published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. And the latest announcement for today from the National Statistical Institute has received information about indexes of turnover in the section of the retail trade without trade in cars and motorcycles in June 2019; indexes of industrial production in June 2019; indexes of construction production in June 2019; consumer surveillance July 2019; persons employed and average gross salary in the second quarter of 2019; gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2019; express assessments; main results of labour force monitoring in the second quarter of 2019; inflation and indexes of consumer prices in July 2019; economic conjuncture August 2019; indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market in the industry July 2019. The materials are available in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we're going through. to the next point s first point for today: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE, adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019 and returned for a new discussion with Decree No 195 of 7 August 2019 of the President of the Republic under Article 2. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications, Mr. Lazarov, to brief us on the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u2	♪ I can't believe on Decree No 195 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 7 August 2019, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019, and the reasons to the Decree At a meeting held on 4 September 2019, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined Decree No 195 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. The meeting was attended by Prof. Emilia Drumeva, Secretary for Legal Affairs of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Brigadier General Stefan Yanev, Secretary for Defence and Security of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Lieutenant General Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence, and National Representative Milen Mihov. The President's decree and his motives were presented by Professor Emilia Drumeva and Brigadier General Stefan Yanev. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The President returns to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019. The reasons of the Decree show that the Military Information Service directs methodically the entire intelligence community in the armed forces, plans intelligence activities in the types of armed forces, specifying the information which should be obtained in the interest of the defence of the country and the requirement that the head of the service be a serviceman is an important guarantee for the performance of the main tasks of the Office outlined in art. 12 of the Military Intelligence Act. The management of the Office must have the necessary specific knowledge and professional experience in the specific field of military work. It is pointed out that if the head of the Service of Military Information is a military officer, he will be banned from political parties, movements or coalitions for political purposes throughout his professional path. For a director who is a civilian, such a restriction will only apply from the appointment under art. 26, para. 1, t. 8 of the Law. According to reason, the Appendix in para. 4 of art. 24 of the Law brings disagreement with the Law on the management and functioning of the system for the protection of national security, and the new para. 5 and related changes in para. 6, 7 and 8 of art. 24 of the Law sets a precedent in the armed forces leading to unequal treatment with other soldiers. In his speech the Deputy Minister of Defence Lieutenant General Atanas Zaprianov expressed his reasoned support for the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. During the discussion of the Decree and the reasons for it the MPs Filip Popov and Georgi Vergiev stressed that the reasons of the Decree are justified and shared by them, and will therefore vote against the People's Republic of Bulgaria during the review in the National Assembly of the Law for amendment and supplement of the Military Intelligence Act. People's representative Veselin Mareshki expressed arguments in support of the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. People's representatives Lazarov, Kasabov, Mihov and Kulkov do not support the motives of the Ukhaza and will re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act. They united around the following opinion: The Minister of Defence implements the immediate leadership of military intelligence at strategic level and the general leadership at operational and tactical level in the Bulgarian Army. By the Law in the power of the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Defence is assigned to choose and propose the person to take up the position of the Office. This change enables the Minister of Defence to make his choice and propose to the Council of Ministers the Director of the Office. The evaluation of the professional qualities and experience of the Head of the Office will be entrusted to the personal right and responsibility of the Minister as the direct head of the Office. The possibility to complete the 5-year term and to hold the post for another 5 years after the Director's termination of his authority at the age of limit of the military rank concerned is not an example of unequal treatment with all other servicemen, as indicated in the veto's motives, but aims to achieve stabilisation in the management of the Office, as well as in building and maintaining trust between partner services. He also finds no support that if the Director of the Office is a civilian, there is a serious risk of politicising military intelligence. The Director and Deputy Directors of the Office may be appointed persons who hold 10 years of professional experience in the system for the protection of national security or the armed forces under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law. This requirement ensures political neutrality, which is a fundamental and general principle of governance and functioning of the system of protection of national security, proclaimed in art. 4 t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the System for the Protection of National Security and delivered as an explicit ban in the special laws of the security and public order services. After the discussion, the Commission with 5 votes for the military intelligence law, 2 votes against and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening the debate. I remind you that the time for debates is in art. 58 of the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will support the president's veto for the proposed amendments to the Military Intelligence Act. By the way, once again, we are discussing such an important issue relating to the security services. This is not only about the normal functioning of a security service, such as the Military Information. It is also about the way it is addressed to the national security system. There are several reasons why we do not accept the proposed amendments to the Military Intelligence Act. First of all, I would like to point out that Military information is part of the defence system, part of the Ministry of Defence, part of the armed forces system. As such, it must function according to certain principles. Such principles are, for example, centralised governance, unity, governance control and, last but not least, political neutrality. This service is the oldest intelligence service in Bulgaria with established traditions that have been observed over the years. The Service has always been led by a serviceman who grew up in the hierarchy of the Office, who grew up in the system of the armed forces at all. We all know, especially here, those present who have gone through the defense system, that soldiers have certain training, skills, knowledge, careers they have acquired. That is why the head of this service must be a soldier. Because the tasks and the place of the Office of Military Information, which it performs, require the Head not only to be a military officer, but to have certain expertise, certain knowledge, skills related to the extraction, to the processing, to the analysis, evaluation, if you will, to this information and not just to provide that information, but it is used to protect national security. Military information is one of the pillars of national security as we know it. This is an important element of the structures of this system. As such, it actively participates in the development of effective measures to protect national security. The military officer has certain qualities, especially if he has gone through the entire Service's system of Military Information and previously through the Armed Forces' system. Of course, there's something else we need to keep in mind here. Both the Defense and Armed Forces Act and the Military Intelligence Act have requirements and a principle of political neutrality, non-interference by political parties and other structures in the work of the defence system and by the Military Information Service. Therefore, if a civilian is appointed, this means that he may have previously been a member of some party, for example. Here we ask the question: then do we respect this principle of political neutrality? How are we sure and creating conditions that this person will be neutral, evenly distant from everyone and will do his utmost in the interests of the state, in the interests of the national security system, his duties?! Apparently, there's another idea here. First of all, of course, it is this system to be controlled. It should be part of the concentration of control over the security services because it is the only one located outside the direct range of the Council of Ministers and within the structures of the Ministry of Defence. That's the first one. The second, of course, here are we sure that this civilian will not serve private interests if he is not a soldier and is some kind of paratrooper? I want to remind you of something. Yordan Bakalov, you may remember, but there have been some very unpleasant rumors, a very unpleasant perception of this person from partner services, from the NATO and European Union guilds, because obviously this authority, which is built, has begun to decline. When we appoint a civilian, we question and jeopardize the work of the Office and its authority, which is built, by the way, not for years, but decades ago. We therefore believe that this change is made precisely and specifically for a particular person. That is, we do not have in principle a proposal to amend the Law, as we see, by the way, in all the laws you have proposed so far. That is why we express our concerns. Once again, we urge you to reconsider, to reconsider your proposal for a change in the Law. One more thing I'd like to say. Let me remind you of 2015 you yourself, the governors of GERB, have insisted and proposed that the Director of the Military Information Service be a serviceman. Well, four years later, what do you really need to refocus, turn 180 degrees, and suggest the exact opposite and as an alternative, be able to be assigned to this position and a civilian?! Gentlemen of the ruling majority, Members of Parliament, do not violate the national security system. With the constant changes you are making regarding the functioning, the work of the security services, in this case, speaking of the Military Information Service, we show that in Bulgaria we do not have stability, security exactly of the national security system of this important part of the country which guarantees the normal conditions in the country and the development of the economy and the normal development of all processes in Bulgaria, including the security of each of us, of every Bulgarian citizen. Only four years ago you proposed one thing, now you're changing your mind. This generates instability and uncertainty of the system, emits uncertainty and obviously the lack of a long-term vision for the development of this system, outside Bulgaria in partner services, in NATO and in the European Union. We need stability and security, so we from the BSP for Bulgaria and I urge you to support the President's veto! Let us not make another absurd change that serves someone's interest and put under control a service so important that, obviously, with the appointment of a civilian, there is no further work to do in the interests of national security and national interest, but rather to carry out other objectives. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, and today, listening to your statement, and yesterday in the Commission of Mrs. Drumeva and Mr. Yanev, you never convinced us that we should support the veto because, firstly, you remember a large part of you when all the services and their bosses from top to bottom were party members and then they worked very well. That is, the argument that if someone is sympathetic to a party or is a party member, his qualities no longer matter, that is, he is better than someone more incompetent, but with a title that, for example, is not a civilian, and we should choose the one who is ranked instead of a professional, but with some bias, in my opinion, exhales. The second, which also exhales, if someone wants to master a service, I think it is not so difficult to find a candidate with a pagon to do this thing with. In other words, these arguments do not give us any confidence, and we do not think that we should support them. And I will give you only one example that disgusts us very much in life: when you give a man the opportunity to grow up to replace some service and he has the right to be any kind of deputy, but he only needs one step to take and he becomes a replacement, but we with some legislation here to prevent him from becoming a director, it does not encourage us to do it right. I'll give you another example, which is now very relevant to the election of the Attorney General. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For several years, Mr. Gheshev is a deputy attorney general, and there are no protests, and no one commented. And all of a sudden, now that he has to take one step and become the Attorney General, certain circles are being activated. That's not enough to support him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mareshki, you have shown once again an established practice that everyone deals with what is not his job and where there is no competence obviously. [[Sighs:.]] You must know the defense system...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u9	Mr. Tsonkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u10	...so you can still talk about it. And, by the way, I'd like to ask you -- let's make a change to the pharmacies law -- why pharmacies managers and pharmacies working there have to be pharmacists -- that's the same thing. I'll give you one more example: in the defense system, you know that the Military Medical Academy is located, then let's make the head of the military also a civilian by that logic! The logic is the same, yes. [[speaking indistinctly]] Maybe military schools, the principle is the same. And so can the Chief of Defense. Then there is no point in armed forces and in the system that is specific, with a certain strict hierarchy, with a centralized system of government, servicemen who grow in the career that acquire certain competences, and this service is also very specific and must be known from within and have passed from the lowest step to the highest one, to have worked outside Bulgaria, to know how this service works, so that you can then lead it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. We are continuing the debate. Statements? Here you are, dear Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate will hardly contribute anything new to the argumentation of these two. We will repeat our positions again. Yesterday at the Commission, I made a parallel that this argument resembles the question of what kind of cat is white or black? The Eastern peoples, the Chinese, have long found an answer to this question: it is not important what color the cat is, it is important to catch mice. In this direction, I would like to say a few words on the statement that the head of the Service "Military information" must be military and only military, recalling that the correction is not that it cannot be military or should not be military in service, but that it can also be a civilian. If we pay attention to the Law that we are changing, we will see that it is not called the Law on Military Information. It is called the Military Intelligence Act. It is very clearly written that it is carried out by two institutions "Office of Military Information" and the intelligence structures in the command headquarters to say it also the structures of the armed forces, i.e. the operational, tactical intelligence for the direct needs of our armed forces. And why am I saying that this proposal, that the Head of the Service, Military Information, could also be a civilian citizen, does not contradict the text of the Law? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the main tasks of Military Intelligence are written, including those of the armed forces. I will allow myself to read the text because it is very eloquent: "Adding and analysing strategic intelligence information needed for the defence of the country and protecting national security from external attacks, risks and threats; carrying out continuous monitoring, regular detection and warning of the risks and threats to national security; developing information and operational cooperation "Pass attention to the intelligence structures in the broadest sense of NATO and the European Union, with the intelligence authorities of the Member States. " I'm not going into an analysis of what military means and what national security means. It is obvious that the examination of the Military Information Service is, in particular, a structure related to the acquisition of operational or strategic information of a military nature, somehow from the past. Threats, including our armed forces, including our military security and defence, are of the most diverse nature. In this sense, the Law also allows military information to work not only on duty, I stress, servicemen, but also civilians. I'd like to say one more thing. Last time we talked about the procedure the law set for the appointment of the head of this service. This procedure does not change and I will say figuratively, not to repeat ourselves, when appointing this important position it is necessary to achieve three dates. On the white sheet, written in the name of the candidate, three should be placed on the list of three institutions of the Minister of Defence, the Council of Ministers and the President. The change of legislation does not narrow the possibility of choosing a good candidate, but enables it to avoid the restriction of seeking the most competent candidate to take up this position, avoiding the formal one, stressing the commitment to be a serviceman, because even now, in the structures of the.. Military information........................ I will not enter history, but in history there are dozens of examples of successful military scouts, including heads of structures, without any military education. Starting with Lawrence of Arabia, Kim Philby, Zorge, and getting to our story. In this sense, I think that this change, both now and in the future, enables the Bulgarian state and the authorities responsible for security, including the leadership of the Military Information Service, to select the best possible and qualified candidates for the occupation of this service from the ranks of the servicemen in the Bulgarian armed forces, as well as from the people qualified in the special services. I don't accept that there's some kind of change being made for someone right now, and I don't know what that means, because that means that we have to include this project in the conspiracy, let's say, not a conspiracy, a personal appointment, the military minister, and the prime minister, and the president. And finally, the veto. We have quite rightly learned yesterday that this is the 100th veto not of President Radev, but since this Constitution is underway. President Radev's is the nineteenth in a row. Pure statistics show that the fifth president, who exercises the sixth term of the third year of his reign, has already implemented nineteen times his veto rights. He's got two more years left. Again statistically speaking, he will obviously be a recordkeeper in the use of this constitutional right. And here's the question: why is this record achieved? The pessimists in this room will say: "Well, the legislative production is crappy, so the President returns. The optimists will say the other side. I don't want to argue about how full the glass is, but I'm joining the optimists in this room. Apparently, statistically President Radev used his constitutional right in too large a size. Of course, it's his right. As some people said yesterday, President Radev opened his election campaign yesterday, visiting parliament for the first time after taking his oath, and we expect that soon the 20th anniversary veto will come again for review. Therefore, we will not support the nineteenth veto of Mr. President and we will vote for a re-voting bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u14	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Military intelligence was created 128 years ago. Military intelligence is the top one in the special services of Bulgaria. Military intelligence is at the top of every country's special services. 128 years is a matter of tradition. Military intelligence is the only special service that in its work counteracts a real opponent. It, unlike all other special services, is constantly in a state of war. That should be clear, although no publicity is given. Right now we want to make a change that is beyond tradition. Let us answer this question: if this change is not in our favor and it is not in NATO's favour, is it in NATO's favour, our NATO allies, or someone else's? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Manev, you have the floor of the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u16	Dear colleague Mihov, I allow myself the luxury without being a soldier to give you a line on this subject. I am far from thinking and the desire to turn the military community in this National Assembly against myself. I understand the desire of many of my colleagues, of the first fellow Member to speak, but I do not understand and I do not accept the attitude that if you are not military, you are good for nothing. So give him who doesn't have military service, who doesn't have military service at all, that he's not a member of parliament... Explain to me, do you agree that he is not a member of parliament, that he is not Chairman of the Assembly, that he is none, because there is no military service? But this is one side of the line I wanted to make you. Please explain in detail here, from this tribune, that the security system, security protection, the intelligence struggle system is not just a military service, and it is not just military work. Experts in this area are not only military specialists in this area, because, for example, a colleague who just gave you a line is also a specialist and a very good expert and a specialist in national security, and he is not a soldier. For example, I'm offended that if we're not military, we can't be anyone. I understand that BSP is very fond of this. So, president of the military, president of the National Assembly, anyone who should be military. Well, who doesn't have military service is speaking out of this tribune? Tell me your opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will read a few things in a nutshell: "It is necessary to set serious requirements here, both for professional qualifications, training, the growth of the one who will be entrusted with such an important specific intelligence unit. That is why we are putting to debate the requirement not only by qualification, preparation, but also by its professional hierarchy to be a military scout, as they say, from the quarry. We approach this debate not on the basis of the person now exercising this position, not on the basis of any personal or political bias, but solely on the basis of the awareness that this institution is one of the main elements for guaranteeing national security and depending on its governance, its activity is directly dependent on the lives of Bulgarian soldiers and servicemen both in Bulgaria in peace time and in carrying out military missions abroad. Thank you very much. This statement is yours, Mr. Mihov, from 2015. What's happened since then? What's with the metamorphosis? Here, you are really convincingly, arguing why the head of the service should be military. Now the opposite! The military officer, dear Mr. Mihov, is subject to military regulations. The civilian obeys what? Do you know what the Minister of Defense's opinion is on this issue and what he was proposing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u20	First, the history of military intelligence. Yeah, you're right, it's the oldest intelligence service in the world. But I would ask myself: if we followed this principle, it would never have been born, because the first military scouts were not military scouts, they weren't trained to be military scouts. Some of them were teachers in the Bulgarian schools in Macedonia, some of them were voivods in our organization. By that logic, we wouldn't have had military intelligence by now. As for what is offensive to the military, it must be military. By that logic, and our commander-in-chief should be acting officer. Acting officer! Because, gentlemen, by that logic, the Supreme Commander who must wage war is not a soldier at the moment. He's a reserve general, like I'm a reserve corporal. Well, that logic, I'm saying, is absurd logic. In your last line, it's important. Life has shown this: yes, a serviceman, an officer who is reaching a limit of age, has to leave the post. The question is: is that okay? What happened, for example, on March 5th, on his birthday, that he should leave the ministry if he leads it well? Why should state and society and security be sacrificed on the 6th, for example, that he has reached some age? You have proposed, you have agreed with the principle that an appointed and acting officer in the formal position of a good head of this service must continue the implementation of his mandate, even though he has reached a high age in military service. Well, this is practically an agreement with the principle that we formulate in this part. You are using that, you see, the opportunity to make a wider selection of personnel in the sector is personified for the same person. And that's how you accuse the president you're defending that he's in this project. Do I know what the minister of war thinks? Believe me, I know very well what the minister of war thinks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Mr. Mareshki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When you're incompetent, it usually kills you in private attacks. I, of course, will not fall to this level and make such a point, but I am obliged as self-criticism to mark a great incompetence. One of my greatest incompetences is that I don't really know what my colleague Tsonkov is competent for. [[Reply from the National Representative Nikolai Tsonkov.]] I have to admit, I don't know what you're capable of. But it's my fault. Now I'm gonna go online and try to educate myself and become competent on this. And on other subjects we can argue, naturally, calmly, if you have any competences. Here, however, thanks to what I do not know about your competences, you have shown that you know nothing and in general...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u23	Mr. Chairman, basically, about the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u24	...in essence, about the Law. Here, you don't even understand what I'm saying. If you try to understand, you'll understand. The incompetence that took place in previous years at the heart of the Law on Medicine, which you commented, led to the fact that a business manager should be a Master Pharmacist, as you are now telling us that he should only be military. It is this incompetence that creates a huge problem in this area and a great imbalance in life. There is no requirement that an airline manager, which is very important, be a pilot. There's no such requirement! There is no requirement for a boss, for the owner of a bakery and bread is the biggest, the greatest thing there is no requirement that a baker, the owner of a baker's factory be a baker. There is no requirement for a person who deals with other commercial activities to be a specific specialist in the particular area. And that's right. What does a master pharmacist know about business management?! He understands what he studied, and he has to do what he can do. This is where I'm already comparing you to the Law we're looking at. If one person is much more prepared? colleagues who are in the industry said it? but not military, he what? He can't grow up, you won't give him a chance because he just doesn't have a certain or special title?! Let's do it somewhere lieutenant quick so he can have some kind of rank and go grow up and eventually become head of intelligence. These arguments last, showing one incompetence which in the years has led to the creation of incompetent laws that are currently confusing and many other systems in the country. That is exactly what we see and we do not allow our role, as far as it depends on our small, natural, parliamentary group, to continue to happen. So I'm going to ask you for this law as well, and also to use this law to look at other incompetent things that have been done over the years, to change these laws and to create really rules and order both in business and in politics and in intelligence and in the Ministry of Interior. I'll give you one last example with the health care facilities and there was also such a debate: should a doctor lead them, or a manager? Of course it's a manager. The doctor needs to operate, he needs to look at people in his specialty, and he needs to look at the narrow specialty he understands. What preparation does the doctor have to conduct business events? My request is that you really consider your support of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mareshki, your statement and that of the previous speaker is yet another proof of why a civilian cannot be the head of the Military Intelligence Service. Because military intelligence, Mr. Mareshki, and what I do not agree with you is not a commercial activity, as you have done so far with pharmacies and hospitals. By the way, one of the reasons hospitals are in this condition is that they are commercial and not medical institutions that manage them doctor, but is a specific activity that requires their preparation, education, personnel growth and awareness in its depth. You can't become competent in military intelligence if you're not competent in military science, if you weren't the one who served as military, and you know what this is about. Otherwise, you get these speeches that you and your predecessor have made. That is why we will support the president's veto because he imposes professionalism in an activity that is part of national security, part of that security, which is called military security. The other one you're talking about has a State Intelligence Agency. There's no coincidence there's talk of civilian and military intelligence. And since we are talking and setting an example with our partner services, let me tell you that there is no partner service in the world, in NATO, with which we can communicate, and there is no military intelligence chief. Otherwise, you are talking about competence, I ask you very much, where you are competent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mareshki, for your convenience, because I understand that you want to see what our colleague Tsonkov is in, to tell you when you are searching on the Internet, add to the front associate Prof. Tsonkov a research worker [[noise and lines]] You'll find it easier to find what it's competent for. [[Reply by MP Veselin Mareshki.]] No, I'm answering you. With regard to the rest of your speech, logic is interesting. It would be nice if, by that logic, the head of a court or prosecutor would be, say, a pharmacist. Why not? By your logic, it could be. Dear Mr. Mareshki, it has nothing to do with pharmacies, business and military intelligence. And indeed, my colleague Ermenkov is right, this is yet another proof of why a civilian should not lead this service, all the more so that he has such an unfortunate experience. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u29	Thank you. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Mareshki, come on in. You have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, it is good that you are a large group, that there is someone who can explain to us what someone else's competence is, because no one else seems to know what the competences are. But let's cut to the chase, get to the point. You of all people, before we of the Volya, the Bulgarian Rhodophilizers, to become part of this parliament, voted the Law in which the deputy of the one we are now talking about can not be non-military, can be military. [[Heckling]] Then what's the logic? The person who made it to the top is the most competent, that is, we believe that once the person has reached a replacement, he has passed the whole chain of which you have spoken to me about, and that he should know military work and military intelligence, and so on. He has reached the top, that is, one of the most competent on the subject, and we forbid him to take the last step and actually stand where it is most logical to be exactly such a person. I see that in almost all areas of the state one of the most normal things is the replacements, those who have gone all the way and come to the top, one of the deputies to inherit and take the next post, whether it be from a sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-substation to become a deputy or a deputy to become a director. This is the most normal thing, and that is why we will once again support the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. We continue with speeches. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the beginning of the motives of its veto, and here it has sounded several times the reminder that in the last few years the National Assembly has been pronounced on the issue at least twice should the Director of the Military Information Service be a soldier? In fact, to be specific here twice, on 1 October and 5 November 2015. I stress because this is a National Assembly dominated by the GERB party, it has come to the decision that this person must be military. It is quite no wonder why this proposal was imposed, although in the original drafts on the Military Intelligence Act this was not the case. You, the majority of GERB of the past National Assembly, on a proposal from the BSP have adopted this decision. It's enough to remember this debate. Here someone doubted our competence, but they have spoken out of this tribune and are available in the Library of the National Assembly statements of authoritative MPs and undisputed experts in the field, such as General Miho Mihov, the former Chief of Staff, among other things, Angel Naydenov, former Minister of Defence, people who understand this thing. And when I mentioned Mr. Angelov and because the history of military intelligence in Bulgaria was also discussed, I will only take the liberty of sending to the opinions that are currently available, prepared by experts of the Center for Defence and Security, where it is detailed what military intelligence is, what is the role of the Military Information Service and why it is completely absurd that his director should not be a military officer. In fact, most arguments are quite clear in the reasons for the veto and also in what came out today by colleagues. There's no point in repeating them, and frankly, I didn't hear anyone seriously question them. I'll allow myself to draw your attention to just one more argument. It is repeatedly highlighted and noted in the veto that the Military Information Service is an integral part of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition to it and, of course, the Bulgarian Army, such are other structures "Military Medical Academy," Stationary Communication Information Service, Military Geographic Service, Military Academy, military schools. None of the other services of any of them ever occurred to him that the director could be anything but military. Only for the Service of Military Information, and periodically, the question is asked: can it not be a civilian? Why do you think that is? In my opinion, it is because of the nature of its activities, which is much more interesting for certain political circles than that of the Military Geographic Service, for example. This is where we come to the point. Let it be clear that, in the case behind the innocent notion, a civil servant is hiding the notion of a political person. The question that the president is reacquainting us with is not a citizen or a military man, but a non-Partyian or a politician. It is no coincidence that the debate in 2015, and now always comes to specific names. Not so many personalities are important here, and with that, I want to take a stand on why it shouldn't be a civilian, give another explanation. It's not about personalities, it's about the hierarchy behind the person concerned. Describing that the director will be military with a high military rank, the Law enters him within the strict and depoliticized hierarchy of the armed forces. On the contrary, the so-called civil servant stands outside this system, it fits into another purely political framework, in a completely different hierarchy, and the brightest proof of this is the conjunctural behaviour of the GERB party on this issue. Four years ago, they supported the requirement for a military officer to remove one director, and today they cancel it to appoint another director -- that's the big difference. In both cases, their decision is a product of unspoken political accounts and of complex coalition relations with the Reformation bloc then, with the United Patriarchs today. It is also obvious that the inconvenience of the Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov, who in 2015 made an explicit proposal in the Law, not for any reason, but for the Director of the Military Information Service to be ranked Deputy Chief of Staff. You do realize this can't be a civilian? Today he is most likely uncomfortable and is therefore absent from this debate. Dear Members of Parliament, the equation we are facing is relatively simple. In support of the president's veto, you will support the mind and expertise that most of you are convinced of, I'm sure. By rejecting the veto, you will consciously contribute to politicisation, and hence, to a large extent, to compromise another institution. This veto is not opposition, it is a chance not to come to this. Don't miss this chance, please! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I ask you very much, after reviewing what it was like in the previous discussions on the topic of Military Intelligence, to answer me whether you noticed that in the then proposals the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party was that the deputies would be military, precisely coming out of some speculation that a deputy could be a civilian and could not be the director of the Military Information Service. Look, I want you to tell me if this is true. You missed out, Mr. Zarkov, and something else I think is very important in argumentation. When this man goes to attend meetings of the chiefs of partner services, he will be the only one with a cylinder, not a cap, he will be the only civilian, not military. Please answer me if this is something that is innovative in the defence policy of the NATO member states that we want to introduce, be ubiquitous, or will we learn from foreign experience so that we do not make such mistakes? I'm going to ask you to answer me, and otherwise you're absolutely right about the loops that are being made, and it's probably really the conjuncture in some cases leading to reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second line? I can't see. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I will not take into account the things I do not understand. I don't know exactly what NATO military structures are. What I read about it is that there is no other civilian case at the moment. What I would like to draw your attention to, confirming everything you have said, is that, first of all, the transcripts are accessible and everyone can get acquainted, I believe the colleagues have done it, but, second of all, and what I have neglected to say is that President Plevneliev is returning the Law to this particular part of it. Here once again you are discussing, you have been here with colleagues, you are discussing it as well as now, by the way, they are silent, there are no speeches in the transcription, but they are voting frankly and categorically that this should be military. Their coalition partners from the Reformation Bloc then advocate a reverse thesis. Today, what is happening can't escape the political conjuncture. We said that this was the 100th veto one of these hundred was precisely President Plevneliev's on this issue. This also raises the other question about the sustainability of our legislation. We will not tire of repeating that one law and one question, when resolved, must have some perseverance, and we cannot every time to satisfy one or another coalition manifest or unclear partner, open the laws. This is not only harmful to this service, it is harmful to all our statehood.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u37	Thank you. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u38	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, a very brief procedure. Military information is directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence. We see from colleague Zarkov what the Minister of Defence has proposed. Correctly, as a temporary executive of this service, the Minister of Defence has appointed a career professional. My procedure is to let the Minister of Defence come here, directly subordinate to him is the Office, an important law concerning the development of the Office. Please invite the Minister of Defense Mr. Karakachanov here to the Chamber. Let's see, to defend its positions.... why previously from......... 2015 had one opinion, now have another opinion, why these appointments, why these proposals?................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u39	Thank you. A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u40	I have a more logical procedure, Mr. Popov. When we looked at the Law essentially at first and second readings, here were both the Deputy Minister and the Minister. Now we're fighting with the president. I'm doing a procedure for the president to come here and protect these.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u41	Maybe the head of NATO will come.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u42	Thank you. Mr. Popov, we'll notify the Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Siderov, you have said a statement.............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I support both procedures. By the way, colleague Popov beat me to it, I was going to suggest the same thing as the Minister of Defence, and the President should be here, as we are discussing today whether we should accept the president's veto over an obvious lobby law, an amendment in law, and on this subject there was no public discussion. My fellow Members and I from Ataka will consult on how to vote, but a discussion is needed, there was no discussion. What we heard here wasn't a discussion on the ground. Is it a civilian or military chief of military intelligence, I don't know if it's a topic? It had a civilian, Yordan Bakalov. They replaced it with a amendment to the Law. Now he's in the military, and it's gonna take another fix to be a civilian again. I ask: who will be the new civilian placed as head of military intelligence? Therefore, it is necessary here to be the Minister of Defence to ask him directly in the face: who will this be again?? Jordan Bakalov, who has already been and had experience, or Haro Abi, who is already at large? [[Laughter]] He has to answer because this is an important question. Here a colleague said that Military Intelligence existed for 128 years, experienced all the vicisions of the Bulgarian tragic and dramatic history, survived the years of the transition to chaos, but now in the administration of the Minister of Defence Karakachanov military intelligence is facing bankruptcy, a collapse. The same minister, who lightly gave two billion dollars to buy blueprints on which airplanes were painted, but I don't know if they were painted on it. The same minister who sells delicious and appetizing pieces on the Black Sea coast of the Bulgarian land "I don't know to whom perhaps foreigners, perhaps oligarchs, and turned the Ministry of Defense into a real estate agency. This is not what the voters of the United patriots voted for, this is not what we talked about to the voters when we were at rallies when I raised Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u44	Dear Mr. Siderov, please come to the subject. You're deviating in violation of regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u45	Yeah, that's the point. If you want, cut me off. This has already happened. It's okay, I'll say it somewhere else. When I promoted the current Minister of Defence for President when I was doing his rallies and when I helped him become Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister, there was no promise to the voters to give two billion for unnecessary expensive planes, but to give them to pensions; there was no promise to sell pieces of Bulgarian land to anyone who knew not who had oligarchs and foreigners; there was no promise to give Military Intelligence to some new brother Haro, so we will think about how to vote. This will be seen on the electronic results. The point is that we have a defence minister, a deputy prime minister who has to resign if the government wants to survive. That's my opinion. Mr. Chairman, I will give myself some time, if, after all, the Minister of Defense pleased to come, the President is also invited to say their arguments, because I did not read in the President's veto the essence of the question: who is this place being prepared for, which is now being released with the assistance of GERB? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Are there any lines? Here you are, dear Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u47	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Siderov, I cannot disagree with you that you raised Mr. Karakachanov and made him Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, perhaps also Chairman of the IMRO you, for the simple reason that Mr. Karakachanov participated in the IMRO at the time when you were an activist of the UDF and wrote editorial materials in the House of Democracy in praise of the power of NATO and the United States of America, which you are now protesting against. But the essence of my line is that you dropped a bomb here, saying military intelligence was bankrupt. I am very keen, I very much insist that you clarify in what respect you are referring to this word "falit" "financial, resource, personnel or operational," because this is something that should worry all Bulgarian citizens, and it should be under the leadership of Mr. Karakachanov. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Second line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Siderov, when I appoint someone somewhere, I call them to me, and I don't even call them, but I call them and tell them what to do. For everyone in the public domain, it is clear, and you have said repeatedly that, apart from the candidate for president, you have made Mr. Karakachanov a military minister and Deputy Prime Minister. So my request is not to use parliament now and call him here, and call him, call him, even tell him what to do. That's what you do to people who are directly in subjection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u50	Thank you. There's no third line. Dear Mr. Siderov, will you use the backrest? No. Thank you. We continue with further comments. You have the floor, dear Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At first, I had no idea to speak today, but because of the debates that have taken place so far, I would like to make some clarification to clear the doubts that have been expressed several times in this House. The first is that a political figure will almost be appointed or a person who will be politically involved. However, to bear in mind that the Law on the Civil Service is not so much valid here, but rather the provisions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces, which provide for, apart from depolitisation of the servicemen, but depolitization of the civilian personnel to the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, including a ban on any political campaign on the territory of the Ministry of Defence. So even if it is appointed, it will always be depoliticized, as are the civilian employees in all the structures of the Ministry of Defence. They are depoliticized, the only political figures are the cabinet of the Minister of Defence. A civilian director of the Service was mentioned, but let's not forget there was another civilian director. There is a trend of special interest by the Presidential institution in various mandates right at the Office of Military Information. I also remember President Parvanov with his wishes to appoint and control the election of the Director of the Office, then you mentioned the veto of President Plevneliev, now another veto of President Radev. So definitely the presidential institution in different mandates has its particular interest in the Military Information Service. Regarding the previous civilian director, let us not forget Mr. Veselin Ivanov, Colonel of the Military Intelligence Reserve, also a new civilian employee. I didn't hear anyone say a bad word during his reign. He, by the way, came across precisely during the Arab Spring and the most interesting from the point of view of the Office actions and years. It has been mentioned here by an honourable colleague before me that, you see, other structures of the armed forces system are not intended to be managed either by a serviceman or by a civil servant. The simple reason is that this is written only in the Military Intelligence Act. The law says he could be a soldier. All other positions are determined by the President's decree, the so-called decree on positions requiring military titles, which, by the way, you can check how often they change. Its latest change is from this year and 2018 when it is introduced and brought out different positions that can be taken by servicemen. Examples are directorates at the Ministry of Defense, different headquarters and so on and so forth. The number of generals, by the way, is constantly changing and this is done by decree of the President, of course, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Defence. There's one thing I don't understand here, and it's a little weird. Let us say very clearly: whether he will be a civilian, whether he will be military, the head of the Military Information Service is appointed by the President and on a proposal from the Minister of Defence. You don't expect serious people like the Secretary of Defense, like the Prime Minister who co-ordinates, and the president who appoints to propose a man who doesn't understand what to do. Of course, they will offer a man who knows what to do, and the president will appoint a man who knows what to do in this service, whether he is a soldier or a civilian. After all, soldiers aren't the same. There are different specialties, as well as here former servicemen some are pilots, others are artillerymen. And there are different professions. So, even then, it is always up to the Minister of Defence to propose whether a military officer should be prepared for this service and for the specifics of the Office. I will once again say whether he will be a soldier or a civilian, the president finally appoints him, no one takes away his authority in this regard. I am deeply convinced that whether he is a civilian or a serviceman, the next head of the Service will be highly qualified and will know how to perform his duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gazhev, you work in this field, you know her well. Like you and I, you're a first term MP. So I took the liberty of referencing to those who have discussed these topics ten times before here and have come to a certain decision. A political figure doesn't mean it's going to be some prominent politician. A political figure means that it is a man who comes from outside building a specific system that you know better and which is the system of the armed forces. The difference between hierarchies and understandings is radically different. In order to put it simply: to this extent, the legislator in 2015 decided that the Military Information Service must be protected from political influence that, although its rank does not imply it, they have made a mandate for this Director a five-year term in order not to allow even the senior political leadership in the defence minister's face to make purges within this figure or to exert pressure. To such an extent it has been elevated in understanding the legislators before us, dominated by your party, the idea that the Military Information Service must have an independent extrapolitical importance. One more thing. There is no argument that the President and these ministers will intervene in this appointment or otherwise, the Law will apply for a long time. The presidents change, the defence ministers change. This president may not appoint a civilian, the other may appoint a civilian. The question is us legislators, what frameworks we set and the framework that are set means that it must be military. If you get out of your expertise, outside of what we're talking about, outside the transcripts and ask the first person on the street: Sometimes we just have to trust in common sense. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line? You have the floor for the back, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u55	Dear Mr. Zarkov, in 2015 it was not only the Military Intelligence Act adopted, which is not the law of the Military Information Service. The overall package of laws governing the security services, including for the State Agency of Intelligence, including the General Law, including the Law on the National Security Agency, has been adopted. By the way, before they were adopted, the heads of both the State Intelligence Agency and the NGO were soldiers, and now they are civilians. By the way, then BSP supported them to become civilians. If memory serves, then in 2012, the Forty-second National Assembly supported the possibility of being a civilian head of the Service. Even though he's a civilian, the chief did his job and managed to lead the Service. At the time, there was no criticism from NATO and partner security services. By the way, if you open the NATO's Military Intelligence Community, or rather the NATO intelligence community, including photos, you can see how many suits there are, how many uniforms. I do not deny the capacity of the servicemen. On the contrary, they fully understand the specifics of their work, but do not underestimate that there are also enough capable people in the civilian sector who can do this work, including former servicemen. So it's not something so extraordinary that it becomes the kind of problem you think it will become. Once again, the presidential institution has some sort of obsession with this office. And not this President, but I am speaking in principle, because a third president has a particular interest in the Military Information Service and not so much in the entire sector. Currently, there are also many civilian employees who are in the Office. They are not under the Civil Service Act, they are in specific order and with specific skills and knowledge. Let's not underestimate their capacity as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. We are continuing the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, we have developed the subject again in one very serious debate, in my opinion. Quite a serious argument is made in both directions and be, and not be the director of military intelligence civilian or military, only that manipulative arguments are also used, which are either inaccurate or not true. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, ▪ what was then and what was then. The main thing to mention is that previously there was no Military Intelligence Act and the service worked under internal regulations, regulations and military regulations. In 2015, we are working on the Law, by the way, for the first time for other special services. There is indeed a serious debate on whether to be or not to be the military chief of military intelligence. Here I have to explain to the people who are not in the topic of National Security, Bulgarian Army and Armed Forces, several things. Military intelligence is three degrees away from tactical, operational and strategic. What was mainly discussed here is the strategic military intelligence service. In every unit and division of the Bulgarian Army one of the mandatory things is to have a scout, only they are military, servicemen with different ranks and continue their service. And here, another manipulation, we don't decide whether to be just a military or just a civilian. We extend the scope of the competences of the three authorities that offer it. This is the Minister of Defence, agreed with the Council of Ministers and approved by the President, whoever he is, whoever they are. In this case, I would not like to say that we are overcoming discrimination with this law, but I would like to say that we are expanding the potential, because at the DANS in employment relations they can work as directors, as directors up to 63 years and a few months, in the DAR under the Law of the State Officer to 64 years. Why should the General, who runs the Office of Military Information and who remains for example 3 years of the term of office, when he is 58 years old, we retire him, dismiss him from the Office? Nowhere is it said that mandatory from today or from when the Law is published that it should be a civilian. The next thing was mentioned several times by my colleagues with facts and names that exactly between 2010 and 2015 the Director of the Service was a civilian and really led it well. The next is not true that NATO partner services are only generals at the moment. More than half of the laws of the NATO member states have given this opportunity, and nowhere has it been said that it must be a mandatory civilian. We don't say that thing either. And last manipulation of colleagues, we cannot put a pharmacist, we cannot put a baker for Director of the Military Information Service, because, open the Law, it is not long, we do not change the criteria for the appointment of the Director. The criteria remain the same, only that we allow a civilian to meet these criteria. That's it! Understand it and do not struggle just because the President will once again be punished here by this tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Toshev, at the very least to you, as a servant of the reserve, you should be aware that this thing that is being done today at the very least undermines the honor and prestige of the Pagon. And you're wrong! We're not opposed because the president wants us to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u60	Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u61	Thank you. And don't do it because the President wants it or because someone else wants it, but because we have established in our work here as MPs, I am not a first term MP, I work for many years and I have established from my own experience and I have reached out to this service that it is the working service of intelligence in Bulgaria. I don't want to get into any more details. This is largely due to the fact that these people work for the honour of the Pagon because they are soldiers in the Bulgarian Army, starting from the lowest rank to the highest rank of General. And right now we're undermining the prestige of this office, at least. It is not for a reason called the Military Information Service, it is not the State Intelligence Agency, it is Military Information. The data they have and the apparatus they have is extremely effective. I think the colleagues from the relevant committees can confirm that. That way we can demote these people to work from here on out. In no case do I take your approach and your reasoning that, you see, when we put a civilian, things will break inside and it will get better. On the contrary, it will not happen better and will not go any better, because I do not understand what your gradation has been since 2015, because you have defended the position to be the military head of this service, and now what is happening? Why are you doing this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For the second line please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Toshev, you're wrong! We change the requirements to the one who will take up the position of the Office of Military Information. We are changing them because at the moment in the Law, demanding that he be military, we have recorded that he should be depoliticized. The moment we let him be a civilian, he can't be depoliticized because that would violate his civil rights as a civilian. This is one of the problems that exists at the moment, whether we are going to allow policy to intervene in the Military Intelligence. Or whether we are going to leave things as they are: in military intelligence depoliticized to serve the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people, and not to serve individual political interests, regardless of whose party they are. And the other thing I would like to tell you is that when we talk about this general's retirement at 58 years old, let's do so that those who nominate the relevant Director of the Military Information Service should be so good as to nominate a person who will not retire in advance, because his age will be enough to meet the rank that he holds a question of personnel policy, a question of personnel training, a question of building personnel. I repeat: military! And once again, Mr. Toshev, I want you to answer me: in which NATO member state is the head of military intelligence a civilian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Toshev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u65	Indeed, I am a soldier of the Bulgarian Army and to tell you frankly, I think it was better for me when we gave the minister the opportunity to be not a general but also a civilian, but this has nothing to do with the Military Information Service. Once again, colleagues, we will not place any bakers, pharmacists, or doctors, honors and tributes for these professions, for chiefs of military information. On the contrary, the Office grows up. And right here, I think Mr. Ermenkov said it, there's no politician to put there. The general, who is 58 years old and has three years of his term of office, continues. Devoenised and continues as a civilian to be the Director of the Office so that he can use his full capacity and full training that he has so far had as head of the Office. What is important to know is that we are making an addition to a new law. This law is only four years old! We're changing laws that have ten-year experience, ten-year practice, and here we're changing something that we wrote five years ago. Why didn't you write it first? How many years have you ruled? Why did you keep special services without laws so that with one signature of a secret regulation for their leadership could change the terms? We do this here, but for hours of debate, hours of conversation and hours of exposure to arguments in both directions! Don't touch where you don't understand! Thank you. [[Replyings and calls from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Quiet, please! Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest that you put to the vote the procedure for extending the plenary session, the time for work today until the end of the programme we have adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u68	Until the adoption of t. 7, and then we continue with parliamentary control, as the time for parliamentary control is fixed. Please vote on Mr. Ivanov's procedure. Vote 157 MPs: 122 against 15, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Mr. Lazarov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to be very brief. The debate was long enough. They were retrospects. I just want to remind colleagues who were here in 2015, and some weren't, but they brought this up, there was another law to unite the services back then. There was no Military Intelligence Service, there was Military Intelligence at the Intelligence Department of the General Staff. The Minister of Defense, who is a political person, hired them and fired them. There was a unification of military intelligence and political intelligence. This has been tabled by colleagues from the United Patriarchs. Both we and BSP voted against. I would like to recall that because it was mentioned how then who voted on the text we are talking about. It has been correctly mentioned that yes, the Bill was submitted with a proposal to be a civilian or a military person. This one, first. Secondly, for the first time in all the services of the national security system, we made the so-called mandates, deadlines for the service, so that there would be stability. That was also said. Come on, now, tell me, what is the stabilization when, due to the age of age for the respective title, a Director of the Military Information Service, after working for a year and a half or two years, is recalled and a new one arrives? Two years later a new one comes, a new one comes, a new one comes... Is this the one we're talking about? And we have given the opportunity to have stability in the Office twice in five years, because in partnership with all other services, partner services in NATO and in the countries of the European Union, and in our services the important thing is, honourable Members, trust between the services, and it is built with stability, not with the frequent shift. This is what we are doing with this change. We are giving an opportunity to one who was the director of this service. We don't change the order of appointment. If he's worthy, if he's done his job, he should be able to finish his job and have a stabilization in the Service. This is mainly what some of the BSP colleagues agreed to and tabled such a bill. And as far as military or civilian is concerned, the Defense and Armed Forces Act has been cited. Well, the National Guard is part of the armed forces, and they're soldiers, too, aren't they? Nobody's arguing about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Will we have a reply to Mr. Lazarov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. Honourable Members, I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019. Vote 197 MPs: 134, against 57, abstention 6. The Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of receipt of it under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Colleagues, we're moving on to: NEW OMBUDSMAN'S BLOCK. Dear Members of Parliament, I remind you that during yesterday's meeting, 4 September 2019, the Ombudsman's powers under the terms and conditions of art were suspended early. 15, para. 2 in relation to para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Ombudsman by reading and announcing the resigned. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please take your seats! You were also informed that on the basis of art. 17, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the Deputy Ombudsman becomes the Ombudsman's office until the election of a new one. By decision of the National Assembly adopted on 28 January 2016, Mrs. Diana Petrova Kovacheva was elected Deputy Ombudsman. In accordance with art. 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman taking up office as Ombudsman takes place after taking an oath before the National Assembly. I have informed you that at today's meeting she will do this. Quaestors, invite Mrs. Kovacheva to take an oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mrs. Kovacheva, please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u71	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and to defend human rights and fundamental freedoms by fulfilling my powers in good faith and impartially. I swore! [[Loud applause. The President congratulates the Ombudsman: "Congratulations! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u72	Colleagues, please take your seats, Mrs. Kovacheva wants to say a few words. Here you go, Mrs. Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u73	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I took the oath with awareness of the great responsibility I take and of the importance of the protection function of the Ombudsman institution. I am committed to my primary concern to be the rights and freedoms of citizens, as well as the obligations against violations and unlawful violations of their rights. The Ombudsman institution's agenda, as so far, will be determined by the people and their problems. The ombudsman's broad law-abiding mandate, as defined by the Constitution and the Law on the Ombudsman, is in line with the highest human rights standards set by the UN. This is precisely why this year the Ombudsman institution received recognition and the highest legal protection standard from the UN, which is also recognition for Bulgaria. For me, this is not the first day at the Ombudsman institution, and I am aware that the promotion and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens is a very broad concept. I therefore commit that the Ombudsman be where the citizens' problems are, where they have violated rights, and with all my powers to uphold the principle and art. 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. In addition, as so far, I rely on the cooperation of all institutions, including the cooperation of the National Assembly and the MPs, because the Ombudsman's institution is so designed that the Ombudsman can point to the problem, he can point to the solution, he can be persistent and persistent in convincing the institutions to take action, but it is their duty to do so. For this reason, I am betting on continuity, I am stepping on the achievements of three strong ombudsmen, I am betting on activity, I am betting on goodwill and impartiality with the awareness that the Ombudsman is always, always on the side of citizens. Thank you for your trust. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovacheva. We all wish you good luck! A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u75	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the first day of the autumn session of the National Assembly it became clear that the repainted communists of BSP have not learned any lesson from the loss of the European elections and in partisan plan have resumed their thirst for power. Today, in the red election odyssey, a showy and arrogant red frame of the highest rank is thrown. This is the Ombudsman of the Republic Mrs. Maya Manolova, better known as Mrs. Afera Kostinbrodska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u76	Ex-boyfriend already.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u77	After the failure of the women's tandem in the spring elections Ninova, Yoncheva, apparently in the fight was called to enter the party the third most skilled manipulator of public opinion and, notice, presented as an independent candidate. One thing is infinitely clear: after the leader of the left desert Ninova resorted to this move, the end of the left in this issue has come. To be promoted a candidate for mayor, allegedly defender of the weak and disadvantaged, by a party such as BSP, who has always trampled on demagogy, terror and plundered the fates of ordinary Bulgarians, is the peak of political cynicism, and perhaps the Ombudsman is just returning to his true amplity. Before that, I have to answer several questions related to its political existence as a BSP MP in the period 2005 - 2015. First, when adopting the new Civil Procedure Code, who passed the texts in the Chamber relating to enforcement proceedings against debtors, entirely for the benefit of creditors, banks and so on? Secondly, who was the personal MP of the Galevi brothers and who promoted the imposition of the bandit model of the notorious businessmen, saying that it should be applied in many of the country's settlements? If you happen to be the mayor of Sofia, Mrs. Manolova, will you apply the Galevi brothers' model to the centenarians? Who is the subject of changes to the Penal Code, which became known as the Amendment "Vanko 1"? Here it should be clarified that the role of Tatiana Doncheva is greatly exaggerated, as she was simply defending the texts as they were made by the importer Manolova. Who tabled the amendments to the Commercial Register Act, with which three years in a row delayed its entry into force so that certain companies could complete it? Who defended a customs officer in front of the Ministry of Interior that there was some confusion and he had nothing to do with large cigarette smuggling? Who issued a signal on election day to reflect on the 2013 parliamentary elections, which of the information in the signal proved correct? And most of all: where are the motor and double bottom aircraft, which for hours before the elections then had to transport illegal ballots, including abroad? The answer is clear. There are many more questions that may be given the same answer. It should also be recalled the way in which Maya Manolova's campaign was conducted in the election of an ombudsman. It has not chosen any means to gain support and it can best explain exactly what these funds were. In conclusion, another interesting fact concerning the legal literacy of the candidate mayor. Since she joined the Ombudsman, dozens of requests have been made to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria to declare unconstitutionality of certain provisions of the current legislation. It's interesting how many of them have been respected. Let us ask the media to make this reference in order to understand how citizens' interests have been protected and should this court be assigned to the institutions which have prevented the Ombudsman from fulfilling his duties. Dear capitalists, apparently Mrs. Maya Manolova is the best BSP can offer you as a candidate mayor for your otherwise wonderful city. Elena Yoncheva would be better than her, and, of course, the leader Cornelia Ninova, only both are currently busy Today it is clear that this will happen to her on October 27th at the polling stations of the Bulgarian capital. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. We continue with the last point of the day: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR INVOLVATION AND CONVERSATION OF THE DIVERSE. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u79	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is to you, to your functions and duties as President of the National Assembly and to ensure that the Members of the National Assembly are able to carry out their duties under the Constitution. What's this about? People who are admitted to the building as advisors, but pretend to be journalists, systematically walk, interfere, stumble, push and try to cause a scandal, such as in the last case. I once came to you and explained that there is such a problem that they are trying to provoke colleagues to become a fight and then almost someone beats journalists and behaves unculturally and disrespectfully towards them. The moment you rang the bell about the upcoming vote on the Armed Forces and Military Intelligence Act, I was in the cafeteria and I came here, he was sitting, holding my hand so I couldn't get into the room. I'm sorry, do I have to beat someone to get in the room and be able to vote? One side holds the camera, the other side holds the microphone, pulls the cable in the middle to make a scandal. Gentlemen, I do not want, by coming to work, to have to fight with anyone, either by the opposition as a colleague, or by the government, or by people who have been admitted for one reason or another here in this Chamber. Tomorrow I'll go to the cafeteria or to the bathroom, some of these people will fall because they will pretend to be beaten, and it will appear that MPs are beating up some people, posing as journalists or other people who have come as advisors. I'm sick and tired of coming to work, dealing with anyone who has the pleasure of making a sensation or doing their shows. You can't just walk into that door, and there's this door five minutes ago, two people sitting around pretending to be journalists and not giving me a chance to get in, and I was in a hurry to vote because the quorum is important to me, after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u80	What media are the journalists from?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u81	I don't want to do a commercial. I'll tell you in my own capacity. I don't want to create a conflict between political forces, but this thing happens on several occasions in a row.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u82	I can guess which media they're from.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u83	I'll tell you, it was a colleague's birthday and he joined the parliamentary group to buy us a drink, just like we all do normal people. They came, they pushed him, they hung him just so he couldn't stand his nerves, so he could kick out this guy, who was neither invited there nor anything, just to make a scandal. Do I have to beat up a councilman here at the National Assembly right now to do my duty, and then you'll say, "How are you not ashamed, you're sent there to do other things, not scandals and beatings?"! Okay, this guy's wondering what to do to make a scandal or become a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u84	Got it, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u85	If you can't handle these duties, choose another chairman who can, but I don't want to come to work, fight with anyone. At the door they stopped me and I had to push them in to fulfill my duties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u86	I'll take precautions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u87	It's not right! I'm very sorry, but this is happening again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u88	It really isn't right, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u89	I've come to you three times.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u90	It's true. Thank you. Another procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u91	I'm taking the floor on the same problem. What my colleague has been talking about is actually a problem for a year and a half. We are sending two complaints from MPs from NFSB and IMRO against the person concerned. Until now, this man has not been removed. The scandals, the violence and the harassment continue, and you, Madam President, look kindly at all these outrageous things. Obviously this person is very dear to you, but we think that from now on we will want your suspension because you cannot work this way. We're thinking about it. On several occasions, I and my colleagues came and you said: "Yes, we will take action. These measures have been going on for a year, a year or so. During this time we are subject to violence, harassment, provocations and hits by a person who pretends to be a journalist, but he has nothing to do with journalism and journalistic ethics. I've been a journalist for 35 years. I haven't seen anything like this! If for you, at your end this is a normal thing in the villages and in the forests you are fighting boars, here is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u92	Please behave more respectfully than the National Assembly stands, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u93	You're either going to be the chairman, or you don't belong here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. There are a lot of people who don't belong here. I'll take precautions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u95	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u96	You'll find out. Here you are, Mrs. Belova, to read the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u97	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly of Assoc.Prof. Dr. Janko Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u98	Please vote on the Deputy Minister's admission regime. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u99	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 954-01-59, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov on 6 August 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 3 September 2019 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry took part Atanas Dobrev From the Executive Agency for Forests: Dr. Fatme Demirova, Head of Department, and Engineer Julian Rusev, Chief Expert. The meeting was attended by representatives of the National Hunting and Fisheries Association........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill was presented by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov, who recalled that such a proposal was tabled at the beginning of the year and was aimed at taking preventive measures against the spread of African swine fever, but because of the public reaction it was rejected. Therefore, the new proposal is rather to assist the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in limiting the spread of the disease in the areas of the country that have been unaffected so far. In this regard, it is proposed that the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry should be able by order to change the time limits for hunting and regulate the number of game stocks in the wild pig in the event of an epizootomy. The order will be issued as before after consultation with the Minister of Environment and Water, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency or the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The appeal to the order will not stop its execution. The Ministry of Environment and Water has no objection to the bill. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports, in principle, the text of the Bill and proposes specific editorials to refine the texts. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, from the................................................................................................ 54 should be more general and it should not be specified that it applies only to episode in wild boar in order to allow for measures to be taken in all cases of disease, irrespective of the type of game. The same opinion was expressed by the National Hunting and Fisheries Association........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 20 votes for the game, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife, No 954-01-59, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov on 6 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Is there going to be a motive? No. I'm opening the debate. Guys, come on in. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed bill by colleagues is related to the possibility of changing the time limits for hunting in a complex epizootic environment, which we witness in Bulgaria in 2019 with African swine fever, with the order of the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment, accordingly taking into account proposals made by the Food Agency and also by the Executive Forest Agency. This is at least the third time we have discussed this topic in the Committee on Agriculture. Success is variable. I do not know if the changes that are currently being proposed for voting will resolve the issue, given the fact that the African plague crisis in Bulgaria is a fact. The losses are huge and accordingly the reduction of the population of the wild boar because, as recorded, it regulates the numbers. She's adjusting now. In an epizootic setting, it means that in relation to the plans it must be much more than in a normal environment. Accordingly, it requires great coordination between the institutions in order for the Law to fulfil its purpose. We supported in the Commission the proposed changes with the feeling that much more effort is needed between first and second readings, however, to define the task put by the change in the Law and to resolve precisely a question which, if it had been put last year and had been implemented, perhaps we would not have reached this situation at the moment. I don't even know at this point how many outbreaks of African swine fever in feral pigs are. At one time, there were 34 of them, but almost every day or week there was a change in number. So this decision is late, but still as people who are responsible for what is happening in the economy of the state, especially in the sector of swine farming, we support it. I'd like to ask you a question. I don't see the importers. It occurred with me after the Commission's meeting and is related to the implementation of Directive 2009 which determines the obligation of each country to change the time limits to make the necessary notification and the necessary information about the proposed changes to the European Commission. This is the country's commitment and, accordingly, the request to enter into force immediately with the order, if there is no relevant notification to the European Commission made in the appropriate order, not to put us in a procedure that would therefore jeopardise the application of the Law. Because you agree that if such changes are related to European legislation and are under the special supervision of the European Commission, it is possible to reach a situation where the entry of the order into force immediately creates problems for the state. This is a question that between first and second reading must find its solution and precision in order for the idea of the Law that it currently has to be realized. Otherwise, it will be a change that will not play its part as we wish, especially in the hunting season, which starts standard from 1 October, but has the opportunity to be corrected by the change in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you have heard from the Report of the President of the Commission, we have supported this proposal, this bill in principle. For the state of the African plague country, I don't want to go back. We all know where we are. For the problems caused by this disease, I will not return either. It is clear to each of us that very fast and very adequate measures must be taken. The proposed changes are not the first. As I recall, we discussed this problem two or three times over two or three years. Either way, this text has not been implemented so far, which is why I believe that even today, and at the next sitting, to vote on such similar texts, they will be late again, but still better late than never, as the people say. So it's a good idea so we can fight African swine fever in feral pigs. With those in the backyard and industrial firms, we were able to sort this out a little bit. How did we decide that? We liquidated the host of the disease, which means we killed all the pigs, but unfortunately, the cases of African plague in the wild pigs in the forests continue. Colleagues, if we have some success with the pet pigs, the domestic and large farms, then the successes in the fight against African plague in the wild in the forests are not at the same level. So I find the idea nice and useful. To realize as quickly as possible so that we can make some progress and success there as well. What concerns me is that the texts are very specific also for the case, as I have expressed my opinion of the Commission itself. Between first and second readings, the importers or someone else, we need to clarify... The law should have a more universal character, should not affect a specific situation, a specific disease, because it is not the obligation of the Law to resolve the particular situation. In my opinion, the Law should be more universal and cover the dynamic social relations that are developing. Today we're talking about African plague, tomorrow we can talk about bird flu, the day after tomorrow about some other disease. This means for every disease, for every type of animal we change the Law. My request to importers is between first and second readings to comply with the opinion expressed by the Ministry of Agriculture, there are such texts, to comply with the opinion of the National Association of Hunters and Fishermen, where there are also such texts, so that this text, which will be voted on, I suppose, next week, will acquire a more universal and more generally functioning character. My second remark to the Bill is to take into account this emptiness that currently exists. Colleagues, with these proposals in the Hunting Act, we do not cover some very large territories in our country. I mean the protected areas and the reserves. The law has no application in these territories. This means that all animals from the forest areas, where the Hunting Law applies, animals will be moved to protected areas and reserves. So my proposal is between first and second readings to solve this issue, too, so that we can cover as much of the territory of our forests as possible. With these remarks and these expectations of such changes between first and second readings, we will support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? I can't see. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mr. Dinkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The problem of African plague has been commented since 2014 when they were the first examples in the Baltic States. Typically ours, the administration, the population, and the hunters thought we'd get away with it, and she invaded with great force. In the past year and this year, there has been a lack of coordination, a change of conditions and a number of other provisions in relation to the measures that apply to the eradication of African plague. It is true that we have much more territory covered, but there are also examples where countries like the Czech Republic have managed very quickly, albeit in smaller territory. The experience of other countries should be enjoyed in this regard. Last year, there were a lot of problems with animal disposal, sampling, the timing of the return of samples, the storage of animals in refrigerated chambers and so on. Hopefully, this year, with more labs to study, this issue will be compensated and resolved in good time. There are European countries where other methods such as special containers are used, where animals are placed, and which are transported on a car in equaries. According to the estimates of the Union of Hunters around 3000 containers would work for hunting areas in Bulgaria. The individual hunt is also very dependable, given a certain compensation by the state, but for our conditions individual hunting cannot do the job, because the conditions in which to hunt now are not suitable for such hunting, and hunting companions usually look pessimisticly at individual hunting, because they think that during such hunting, other kinds of animals can be shot. I believe that coordination between the individual institutions and the Union of Hunters and the measures proposed must be considered on a monthly basis, despite the fact that we are now adopting this draft law so that there can be real effectiveness in combating the African plague and that hunters can really help. We hope that with the measures to be awarded, we need to reduce the population to 0.5 pigs per 100 hectares, even some comment and 0.3, which is a very optimistic figure, but if there is really no coordination, these wishes will not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are looking at this bill, which, unfortunately, is not the first time in this House. For some reason, unclear to me, it has been rejected so far, despite the motives, the conversations, the examples we have given over the years, because we are talking years ago. The alarm for African swine fever was filed a long, long time ago, and here it was perceived as something imaginary, something that in no way would affect us, but one morning we woke up and it ended up in our courtyards, in our farms, and a whole industry is threatened with existence. It is certainly that our parliamentary group will support this law, but we must not turn a blind eye to what has passed, and what is to come, because the main problem that I have identified and identified in previous periods is the implementation of the Law. I am not convinced that this law will be applied to the extent expected to give the necessary results. I will not forget here with the previous Minister Porozhanov in control how much we have talked about this topic and how Mr. Porozhanov stubbornly ran against the necessary measures to be taken to limit the spread of this severe disease, which is currently here, and no one knows how to deal with it. My fellow Members, I am not convinced that, after the adoption of the Law, the Ministry of Agriculture will go to full extent to take the necessary measures to limit the population of wild pigs. As here, my colleague Abas raised the issue of protected areas, I also raise the question of private hunting holdings..................... how will they proceed? How will the relationship between the management departments and the Ministry of Agriculture be arranged, which receives money from these forests?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u108	There are contracts, contractual relationships.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u109	This type of reasoning puts us in a position to doubt the effectiveness of what has happened. I sincerely hope that all these details will be cleared in the debate between first and second readings. Otherwise, it will be another non-working law, because for the beginning of the hunting season it is already missed to extend the deadline. Perhaps it is meant to extend the term of the hunting season. Despite Minister Taneva's orders to allow individual hunting, to reduce the population of such a thing, I can tell you, it is not happening. Nowhere is the population of the wild boar being reduced at the moment, and it is the main distributor of this disease and of private holdings. Seriously calls into question the efficiency of the administration in general and its desire to deal with this problem. Colleague Dinkov raised the question of the equarius. What kind of caricatures are you, guys? They don't work, they're gone. The purpose of these equaries is closed, the license is revoked, some have returned and the Ministry and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency continues not to contact them and not to sign contracts with them, provided that this is the safest way to secure these hazardous waste from carcasses of animals that are euthanized on the farms concerned. It is for this reason that everything that is being done here that we consider to be late and that it will hardly give the necessary effect. Therefore, responsibility will be sought extremely seriously both by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which is no accident at the moment and the Prosecutor's Office is checking because of omissions and actions that have damaged and continue to damage Bulgarian farmers. And no one is taking any part in this matter. Nobody cares, and the subject doesn't come up. You know very well that this agency is under the personal command of the Prime Minister. Even the Minister is not responsible for the actions of the employees of this agency. Colleagues, I sincerely hope that what we are voting on today will give some effect, but unfortunately, doubts remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 954-01-59, tabled by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained. Mrs. Belova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, I request that the deadline for proposals between the
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u112	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Maria Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u113	Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 31 July 2019 to 4 September 2019: Asked by the MPs Atanas Stoyanov, Alexander Siddi and Kalin Popovski to Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, on the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water on thermal treatment of waste in the country. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 13 September 2019. Written answers from: - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Dimitar Danchev and Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Kristina Siderova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Nona Yotova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 10 questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Sevim Ali. We start with answers to questions. Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva will be the first to respond to a question by MP Anton Kutev on government policies in the field of national security in the context of the growing global geopolitical environment. Here you are, dear Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! One of the most important things in my opinion that has been happening in the world in the last six months is the exit of the two key countries of the United States and of Russia from the Treaty on the Elimination of mid-range missiles. As we know, this was done on 1 February 2019 by the United States. In response to this action on 2 February 2019, Russia also emerged from the mid-range missile Treaty. This, in my opinion, changes the foreign policy situation to almost the same extent as it was about 30 years ago changed when this treaty was signed. This, in my opinion, is extremely important for all participants in the global political game, especially for a country like Bulgaria. Why do I say that it is important especially for a country like Bulgaria? Undoubtedly, as members of NATO and of the European Union, we have certain commitments, a certain dose, I hope, of guarantees for our security. At the same time we are small enough power in this whole game and definitely the fact that the global balance of forces is being disrupted cannot fail to affect our own security. By the way, in the context of this, in July 2017, a UN conference produced a legally binding document banning nuclear weapons, which could lead to their complete elimination, a goal shared by 122 countries. The Treaty is open for signature and ratification by the various UN Member States, as of 20 September 2017. In this regard, as well as in relation to the withdrawal of the two States of the United States of America and Russia, from the mid-range missile Treaty, as a direct action by the European Parliament with a resolution on the future of the mid-range Treaty and the impact on the European Union, comes out by Resolution No 2574 of 2019, voted on 14 February 2019, where it calls for multilateral nuclear disarmament to be a priority of the foreign and security policy of the Member States. Prior to the actions of the United States and Russia on the Treaty, the resolution stresses that such a development of the situation poses a threat to some of Europe's most important security priorities, as well as to European and global security and peace. Once again, attention is paid to the fact that European security should become indivisible and calls on all Member States of the European Union, as well as NATO Member States, to act accordingly. In other words, it is obvious that Russia and the United States' refusal of the Treaty poses threats to European security, respectively to Bulgarian security. This has been proven by both the documents of the European institutions and the pure logic of what we have been doing for the past 30 years with our country and with our Security Concept. In this regard, my question is: what are the specific policies of the government with which we will guarantee Bulgaria's national security in the obviously growing global geopolitical environment, whereas this question was asked more than two months ago? Meanwhile, in August, this treaty was already denounced. I tried to ask the question in some context before this happened, but, unfortunately, this whole interaction of ours proved too sluggish, and it wasn't for any other reason... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last words, Madam President. ...and on this, I am convinced that the issue is not to you, but to Boyko Borisov, and that at the moment you are standing here and not Borisov, I think it is part of a violation of the Rules of the National Assembly, but this is another topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u116	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, your question is certainly extremely relevant. I agree with your assessment and with what you have quoted as a resolution of the European Parliament that the international security and disarmament system is facing new challenges following the condemnation and termination of the mid- and short-range mid-range Treaty, on which these two countries were, in fact, the treaty. It was a bilateral contract, not a multilateral one. However, since your questioning is much wider, in so far as it affects the entire spectrum of guarantee policies, which are geostrategic, political, economic, military, infrastructure, financial, informational and so on, I will mark only the main, quite telegraphic, security policies of the Republic of Bulgaria within five minutes. I'm going to go a little bit further on the two contracts you mentioned. The National Security Policy of Bulgaria is led by the adopted by the National Assembly, by you, an updated National Security Strategy, and the main highlights of the Strategy are also described in the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017. The aim of our government is to lead a peaceful, active and effective foreign policy based on mutually beneficial cooperation in defence of national interests. It is, of course, in line with the principles and objectives of the UN Charter, and also in line with the values of the alliances in which we are members of the European Union and NATO, with the aim of protecting peace, security, stability, development and prosperity. In fact, these are the targets taken to the top. We give priority to the multilateral approach, and we believe that the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in NATO is a strategic choice and one of the main guarantors for national security. Another such element is what you mentioned in your questioning is our participation in the revision of a common security and defence policy of the European Union. The initiatives and actions of the European Union and NATO remain defining the strengthening of international security. By standing up for our own interests, we are an active participant in the development processes of the two organizations. I don't know if I have time to mark specific policies that are consistent with this. One is our extremely active work with regard to the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of the Western Balkan countries, and you know that these are neighbouring countries and their security and prosperity is directly related to ours; efforts to attract investment, as well as progress in energy security and diversification of supply of energy resources. In this regard, I would point out concrete initiatives in relations with the major countries of the European Union... the United States, Japan, the Russian Federation, China, Egypt and others. The same applies to the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus region. That's really a very small part of it. Unfortunately, we don't have enough time. But now on the two specific contracts, the one you mentioned regarding nuclear weapons, control and means for its delivery. Our policy is open and consistent and is carried out in accordance with the membership of the two organisations. We are a party to all key international instruments in the field of control, arms and malaise, and disarmament. In terms of nuclear disarmament. From the very beginning, we have been fully committed to the implementation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which entered into force for us in March 1970. To date, 190 countries have joined it, almost all UN member states, five of which have been officially recognised as nuclear forces: the United States, Russia, Britain, France and China. These are, in fact, members of the Security Council who are responsible members of the UN. In fact, three nuclear states have not joined. North Korea came out officially, but the exit was not recognised by the international community. This treaty establishes the existing system for the malaise of nuclear weapons and an effective control system. It established the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which, in addition to almost 50 years contributes to the development of the peaceful atom, also implements the verification process on Iran's nuclear programme. As you are probably aware, the Nuclear Weapons Malaise Treaty has, in fact, set for the first time an ultimate goal of achieving a world without nuclear weapons. Another important step along the way to nuclear disarmament would be the start of negotiations on contracts to ban rapidly disintegrating materials and the production of nuclear explosive devices within the disarmament conference. There are no shortcuts to complete and irreversible nuclear disarmament. It is only possible with the participation of all nuclear States and nuclear technologies, taking into account the various security aspects and following the creation of a universal and reliable verification system. Therefore, the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons signed in New York in September 2017 and quoted by you could not result in a final result. Firstly, because countries with nuclear weapons are not, and will not be, a party to, all countries, even those five that have joined and are a party to the 1970 treaty. Secondly, no nuclear device, heads, carryers, and so on, will be removed, which will not achieve its goal. Thirdly, it undermines the system of malaise and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons created by the 1970 Treaty. Fourth, it does not create a reliable system of control over the destruction of this type of weapon. Fifthly, it was not agreed in the framework of the UN disarmament forums established, which once again undermines the existing architecture of international security. In other words, he is stillborn and will not contribute to a world without nuclear weapons, which is why Bulgaria cannot join. No country, NATO ally, nor any of the nuclear states, has joined. With regard to the second treaty,.. for the removal of mid- and short-range missiles, as you said in the last 30 years, this treaty has been among the main pillars of European security, above all of European security. It was used to remove a whole class of rockets. It should be borne in mind, however, that there were only two countries, as I said, the United States and the Russian Federation as a successor to the USSR. However, in order for a contract to exist, it must be applied on both sides. Since 2014, there has been an official call and NATO data to return to the implementation of the Treaty. Unfortunately, at the last NATO meeting, all foreign ministers, not only from the European Union, urged both sides to stick to implementation, because this treaty is really important for European security.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u117	We're running out of time, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. There are some supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u118	I know, but so many questions... So together with NATO allies, we remain open and engaged in dialogue with Russia. We hope that negotiations will begin in the future on a new treaty of this kind, which will involve not only the US and Russia, but also China and other countries. We do not want a new arms race, and we encourage the preservation of the Treaty on the Elimination of mid-range and short-range missiles. We will participate and continue to participate in consultations on the subject at all levels within the European Union and NATO. I'm sorry, I have more to say, but we've really overdue a lot of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u119	You'll have the opportunity. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u120	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Mrs. Zaharieva, you and I have actually done one thing so far: we have found that the situation is not good and that it is getting worse. I think we have no differences of opinion here. The problem in all of this is that yes, we are partners both in NATO and in the European Union, but at the same time Bulgaria is particularly affected precisely by the withdrawal and the condemnation of this treaty, because mid- and short-range missiles are precisely those missiles that actually reach our territory if we are talking about any future conflict. Security policy is a policy that proposes this. It implies future conflicts in which we are looking for a way to ensure our security. It is precisely in this context, precisely in a country such as Bulgaria, which is located in a specific geographical position and in which these mid- and short-range missiles come to us because they do not reach Germany in practice for purely geographical reasons, and in case in Bulgaria we have and buy some eight or nine aircraft, that is, our defence policy is extremely limited, and at the same time in practice we are an objective because we have NATO bases, that is, we are particularly vulnerable in the context of European policy and our participation in NATO in this treaty. That's why I asked you that question. Because the problem here is not whether or to what extent we are involved in NATO's common systems. We are involved, thank God, and this is, of course, the only chance we have, but we should take other additional action to ensure security, because the risk to Bulgaria is much greater than for the United States in the condemnation of this treaty. That's why the United States is allowing themselves much easier to get out of it. And that is why my two questions are: I am not the driver and I am not responsible for leading this policy, but I imagine at least two ways that are actually my supplementary questions. The first time is: do we have any special relations with Russia? Assuming that from NATO's point of view it is the main threat to Bulgaria in the event of a conflict, do we have special relations with Russia? Do we have any special policy to ensure that possible military threats can be at least discussed or in any way treated with another archin rather than archin with which we treat Germany or the United States? That's the first question. And the second is: do we, or do we not, have any answer to the first one, are we looking for ways within NATO to guarantee our capabilities and our security in any other way? Bulgaria is not a small country... I'm done, Madam President. Bulgaria is not a small country for the European Union. We are a middle country within the European Union and this must be known. However, countries like ours have always been victims of global, military and political conflicts. But they were victims because we were shortsighted, and that's what our story very often proves. The lack of vision, the lack of forecasting of what could happen, the lack of proper positioning, because, okay, members of NATO and the European Union, this, however, in this case, of an increased risk to Bulgaria, does not guarantee us. Therefore, my questions are these: what are we doing in our specific policy regarding Russia? What do we do in our specific policy regarding ensuring special security for Bulgaria within NATO, thanks to the fact that we are at increased risk?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u122	Mr. Kutev, I'm going to allow myself to repair you. In fact, the missiles reach the territory of the whole of Europe, not only of Germany, but of France, and of the more distant countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u123	They're 500 kilometers away.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u124	Five hundred are small, medium and short range. But anyway, this argument is unnecessary. What Bulgaria is doing, as you yourself said, is part of a defence union. The decisions in which Bulgaria actively participates in the formation, not only in their discussion, of NATO, are indeed calling for the launch of negotiations for a new treaty, if necessary and multilateral. The greatest guarantee and protection is simply to abstain, despite the lack of a treaty, from placing such missiles on the part of the Russian Federation in the same way close to NATO borders. So at present are, of course, the steps that we have taken together with the allies, joint exercises, strengthening intelligence and exchange of information, air and missile defence and so on. These are rather defence matters, but the most important is diplomatic efforts to return negotiations, start negotiations on a new treaty. The truth is: a contract which is not respected by one of the parties cannot be a contract. At some point, it seems that the interests of both parties coincided, that is, its termination. And it wasn't so much about Europe and the threat from Europe, it was more about the threat from China. So it is no coincidence that the allies' calls in NATO, I think, joined Russia with them, is for negotiations of a multilateral treaty involving China in it. I am much longer ready to talk about this, and I believe that here, with regard to the interests of Bulgaria, we all need to join forces. Some of the things I cannot say openly, let us, if you wish, discuss this in the blitzcontrol of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kutev, an opportunity to express your attitude to the answer please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u126	Honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Yeah, I was expecting this conversation to turn out that way. Undoubtedly, the efforts to search for new contracts are important from now on, in fact, that is the main thing that needs to be ensured again. The breach that was made 30 years ago, I don't believe it will happen again anytime soon. Indeed, there are more international players. However, it is important to me though, I tried to bring that thought down, for me two things are important. The first is that, after all, in this whole context, Bulgaria, in my opinion, regardless of everything else, the European Parliament resolution has shown well enough that this is possible, must maintain different policies, especially towards Russia. Because a key factor like Russia at the moment does not make any sense to be nervous, especially in the context of our last two or three days with you, where I personally have not seen any sense of this sharpening of diplomatic tone, at least it is not in our interest. But that's a detail, that's the small part of the whole thing. The bigger one is whether we have an action plan on how to ensure maximum security with a country like Russia in which, by the way, we currently have a direct interest. We expect part of the Turkish Stream to come to Bulgaria. For the last year, there is no institution that has not been to Russia in the sense of President, Prime Minister, President of the National Assembly. We've all arranged for meetings to go, to watch, to negotiate some interests. Yet we continue in some way to sharpen our relationship there. And in terms of security, this is key, which means I don't understand it. I think we need a particularly special policy there for many reasons, especially economic and security. That's one part of it. And the second part of these actions, in my opinion, we need concrete action with regard to NATO. I do not claim to know what they are, but I come back to this: we must ensure with particular force our interests in NATO for the simple reason that we are at greater risk. We are very close to Russia, we are a country with the relevant NATO bases and at the same time we have very few options for self-defense in terms of defence. That is why, by the way, I had referred this question not to you, but to the Prime Minister. Because this is not a question on which only the Foreign Minister should answer, because it also concerns the Ministry of Defence............................................................................................... I'm done, Madam President. If the Prime Minister were now responding, I am sure that we would have had a much more complete response to what is also my remark to the leadership of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u127	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Allow me to thank Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are continuing with a question to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the establishment of the Department of Labour in Shumen. Please, Mr. Ivanov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Dear Minister, I asked the question another July month, but due to holidays and important commitments we may be discussing this topic today. The question is dictated by the following: according to a notice of a private judicial contractor with an area of action, the District Court of Shumen is declared public sale of the building in which the Department of Labour is housed. The date marked there for public sale was July 31st. Perhaps today you will enlighten us as to what has happened, for this is still about the work of a directorate of your office. I ask you to answer me: what measures have been taken to prevent this from affecting the activities of the said structure by the Employment Agency, namely the ongoing enforcement procedure? What costs are planned for exiting the situation and for whose account are they? Can you answer us: is there any knowledge of this thing taken in advance of any measures to avoid this case, so that citizens and employees are not particularly harmed? I've been inside, I know what investments have been made, most likely by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to rebuild the building to be used for this purpose and, of course, the concern for the future remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u130	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! According to a notice of 22 April 2019 of a private judicial contractor with an area of action, the District Court of Sumen was declared a public-sold ground floor of an administrative building, which houses the Department of Labour. In this regard, the Employment Agency sought the assistance of the district governor of Shumen and the mayor of Shumen Municipality to provide another suitable building. After correspondence and talks with the two institutions by letter reply to the Employment Agency, the mayor of Shumen expressed his willingness to cooperate with a proposal for a municipal property building, for which there was also a decision of the Municipal Council, Shumen. In this regard, the Employment Agency has taken the following actions: it has taken a look at the proposed building in order to provide a space for the performance of the functions of the Labour Bureau and has been assigned a technical task to carry out construction and repair works in the building in the part of electricity, water, structural wiring, heating, renewable energy installation, as well as repair works on the basis of which a quantitative account will be drawn up. A major renovation is required due to the condition of the proposed building and in view of the specifics of the services provided by the Directorate of Labour and Labour Office, namely: the establishment of service areas for job seekers and employers, the establishment of a Center for Working on Group and Individual Information, Consulting and Professional Guidance, as well as the provision of modern technical equipment. Upon drawing up the quantitative account, action will be taken to secure the necessary capital expenditure for the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for this year does not provide capital expenditure for the major renovation of the proposed property. In case the funds for the capital renovation of the building are provided, follow-up actions will be taken to conclude contracts for the provision of the building for the needs of the Directorate-General of Labour. At the same time, taking into account that the real estate is owned by UNIVERSS EAD in liquidation, a company whose sole owner of the capital is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, in mid-July I addressed in writing to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works with a request not to allow the sale of state property, as well as to protect the employment bureau of Shumen, the right of use and use of the property of the building. On the basis of exchanged correspondence, expert meetings were also held on the subject. Our efforts to find solutions to this problem continue. Meanwhile, in response to some of your question about the time limits for submitting written bidding proposals in the two procedures carried out with deadlines of 22 May and 31 July respectively, no new public sale of properties has been announced at present. That doesn't calm us down. Our work on finding a solution continues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u132	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! It is extremely disturbing when a member of the cabinet hears from the stand that the state does not make efforts and care for its own real estate. I am not talking about you as Minister of Labour and Social Policy because this building, as you said, is owned by a company owned by the Ministry of Regional Development. That's, to put it mildly, idleness, because a building on three floors is sold by a private bailiff for 300,000. lv. I've listened to you carefully, and I understand where you're going to put this building and what the municipality offers you. It's an ex-school, the so-called Fifth Basic, which is in a miserable state, but really in a miserable state. There it will take millions, dear Minister, to make it fit for use by the Department of Labour and the City of Shumen and the citizens. First it's inconvenient to access. I do not understand the complexity of making the necessary communication, and if necessary a decision by the Council of Ministers, this building can be preserved because 330 thousand. lv. I do not know for what reason or how a state-owned company was put on the table for sale. It is extremely brutal for such an institution as the Labour Bureau to be placed on the counter and sold by a private judicial contractor. We've had a case of a hospital being sold by a private bailiff, which is extremely unpleasant. I hope this thing doesn't stay on duty in this government's policy. Let's take some precautions. Ask the Council of Ministers between the two ministries to make a joint working group, to cover these obligations and to remain that office there. Otherwise you will see yourself forced to spend millions that will not give you next year to spend them, because this is an abandoned school for at least six, seven years has been abandoned, for nothing is used, it is destroyed. I don't know what you're gonna do in there. Really let it not remain as a mark, let it not be an emblem, because obviously this is the direction of the non-management of state property by the ministries themselves, which is a bad sign for all employees down the chain of ministries and different structures, not to care for their ownership. We are extremely worried about what is happening and I hope that you will take action in this direction, because at the next public sale I am convinced that the price will be dramatically reduced and someone will take it at a priceless price, and you will be wondering what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Let's hear your coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I understand that you are well aware of the problem and the solutions sought. As I said, two options of a decision are actually considered and taken as actions. On the one hand, the Employment Agency, whose unit is located there, and on the other hand, the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to find a solution, in so far as it concerns property which is state owned and is declared publicly sold to repay an obligation that is significantly less than its value. So it is no accident that I stressed in the answer that our efforts on the second option continue and I will personally concentrate in this direction. I hope that a solution will be found in this situation, which, on the one hand, will preserve the possibility of the Directorate-General of the Labour Office to use the premises which, as you confirm, are well equipped for this purpose and, at the same time, the State to retain a property which is state-owned. My efforts will be in this direction, but other actions have been taken as an additional option to resolve the problem if the other solution is not reached for reasons that do not depend solely on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u135	Allow me to thank Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. First, it will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov concerning compensation for the losses of farmers as a result of outbreaks of African swine fever in settlements of the municipality of Nikopol and other Danube municipalities in Pleven region. Here you are, dear Mr. Antonov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u136	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Taneva! I am making it clear that my question brought it into the office exactly two months ago on 5 June 2019, but this does not make it less relevant today. In early June, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency confirmed outbreaks of African swine fever in the Pleven region. As a result, the institutions immediately took measures to control and eradicate the disease. On 4 July the forced killing of pigs began in the private holdings in the villages of Jernov, Bubel, Muselievo and Evlogievo. These are actually the first four outbreaks in which African swine fever occurred. After that, these outbreaks spread very rapidly to neighboring areas and neighboring settlements. These are heavy losses for people who live in one of the poorest regions of the European Union. Please, Madam Minister, answer within what time period and what measures will you and your trusted Ministry take to eradicate the disaster, as well as to fully compensate farmers and private holdings for the destroyed animals? To date, do we know how many outbreaks of African swine fever have occurred? Thank you and I look forward to your answer, and I have further, supplementary questions on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u137	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u138	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Antonov, yes, and I will begin my reply with the clarification that I answered parliamentary questions and questions at the last session of parliament before the summer vacation. Now and the first, so to all who were at the last meeting, I answered the questions. It doesn't matter at the end of the day, we can also give the current information to date. As regards outbreaks in the Pleven region, and in practice one of the first outbreaks for which the question is asked, I will not list the measures that have been taken. This happened two months ago in practice with regard to the eradication of outbreaks in the Pleven region, which were registered. All measures under European legislation have been taken under the African swine fever roadmap, which has been materialised in the European strategy for the control of African swine fever since 2015. In addition, all actions with regard to compensation for the owners of destroyed animals, as per the legislation, have been undertaken. With regard to the current situation, of course, we have accurate data on all outbreaks. What is the current status to date? Thirty-five total outbreaks were reported, with: in the case of a type of domestic pig 33, in the case of a type of Eastern Balkan pig, which were discovered a week ago, there are 2 Of these 33 outbreaks in domestic pigs on industrial farms are 7, on family farms are 3 and on personal holdings are 23. The total number of animals concerned is 131,961 pigs, of which 161 East Balkan. At the moment, in practice, the only outbreak on which it continues to be destroyed is Golyamo Vranovo, where there are still 1,000 mother pigs and 3600 adolescents on yesterday's date as information, and the plan is to end the outbreak in Golyamo Vranovo on Monday. These data that I'm mentioning right now and which are relevant, I can tell you that we haven't had a domestic pig's hearth in 22 days. For the last nearly 40 days of all these 33 outbreaks in the domestic pig, or since 1 August, today we are 5 September, we have recorded in practice only one outbreak in domestic pig and Eastern Balkan The intensity of the outbreaks was in July. Undoubtedly, the fact of this reduction has proved to be the measures that we have taken, albeit extremely severe and unpopular. A total of 12 regions of the country have been affected by all these outbreaks. The cases of wild boars. There are 57 cases in wild boars. A total of 80 feral pigs were affected in 18 districts of the country. 43 infected zones have been identified which have different mode of banning activities. In the last month of August, in which, again, I said, we have practically three outbreaks in domestic pigs. Two of them in East Balkan, all others are cases of wild boars where the intensity is high. With regard to the decisions taken by the government to compensate the farmers who took part in the fight of all the institutions of the country against African swine fever, and volunteered to absorb their domestic pigs at unregistered sites, I say again, in unregistered sites and without any measures for biosecurity, the payment of this support has begun. What is the situation today or the information from this morning: 7430 applications in 90 municipalities and 562 seats received this support for a total of 2 million. 229,000. lv. The payment of this support with an organisation implemented by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency continues to be made at each location on a fixed schedule and on applications for support meeting the criteria for the decisions taken. The government gave up from the moment I entered into a mandate, additional funds on two regulations, the last of which for 28 million. BGN and the first decree of July for less than 4 million support to finance the measures to combat African swine fever. Apart from that, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests with Own Resources itself provided, and provided, of course, the timetable for the payment of financial support to farmers in personal holdings which were unregistered and which implemented measures to combat the disease. As you can see, the intensity of outbreaks in domestic pigs from 1 August has been dramatically reduced. I'll answer some more questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Here you go, Mr. Antonov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u140	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! Dear Mrs. Taneva, I am not pleased with the answer to your question. Indeed, we had discussions in the National Assembly. One was initiated by our MPs and, above all, by Professor Bachvarova. That was at the very beginning of the campaign. We've asked a number of questions. Do not leave the impression that we are putting these questions with the aim of embarrassing them. Moreover, we wanted to be useful and faster to be able to meet people's demands, to take the necessary measures accordingly, to make the necessary collateral for people. Clearly, there was also the African Plague Program a few years ago, there were many measures. There was a training in early January in Plovdiv 2018 to share Lithuania's experience, which we believe was the most noble and it is best to do this way, but this period has passed irretrievably and we believe it is impossible to do so. What you are commenting on the allocation, I can say is that it is extremely insufficient. Not only is it not enough, but there is no system under which it is normally operated. First, I would like to say that on August 5th your Ministry promised 300 leva. aid to all owners in the 3km and 20km zone at an explicit press conference in the Ministry. On August 21st, also in your ministry there was a question and information that it is now about compensation only for those farms that are in the 20km area of pigs complexes. Here was actually a difference in the 3km and 20km zones, because these 20km zones, of course, cover the settlements around them, but whole municipalities remained outside these 20km zones, which fall within the 3km zones. Then the decree of the Council of Ministers, which came out, for 28 million on 28 August, is the exact date of matching the amount and date, it said nothing. [[the President signals that time has run out]] by the methodology by which these benefits will be made. That's where the other mishaps came from. There are applications for compensation, but I want to tell you that we have many signals from municipalities, from many settlements that they fall. There's no compensation, no money, there's no extermination of animals. I'm done with another sentence. We should not oppose people who look at pigs in their private yard. We must not oppose those who are in pigs' complexes. For one, it's a small loss, but for these people's personal holdings, it's a huge loss. Because these are the lowest income people. And for some of the pigs, it's devastating. They've made modern complexes, they've drawn huge credits. Even if some are on programs, they have their own part. How do we recover their damage? How will we restore pig farming in Bulgaria in the coming months? These are the questions I'm asking you. Of course, and the small owners, how do we make the compensation?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u142	Mr. Antonov, I answer every question specifically. For everything there are clear rules laid down in the legislation "European," national. The only national measure which, despite its philosophy, has been refuted by many countries, including externally for our country, is with regard to the measure for these 300 BGN. to support personal holdings. Everything else is in European and national legislative order. And here we go. With regard to pigs, there are clear rules and principles in European legislation, in national law, regulation on how to compensate not only pig complexes, all registered pig holdings, but also other animal objects in cases of epizootes, how to destroy the outbreak and for what funds can be allocated. The Council of Ministers has accepted the sum of 28 million to provide these benefits, which are scheduled in strict order not specifically for African swine fever, but for all epizoots. In this order and up to now, the State has paid compensation to registered establishments, for example in poultry farms where there is avian influenza on holdings. This help is regardless of whether the object is a pig complex, a family farm, or a private holding for all registered ones. This allows European legislation. Nationals have a very clear order. No one makes different decisions on this. The second topic is the personal holdings which have not been registered and are not. The issue and problem in terms of the epizootic risk of spreading the disease is not even in their formal registration, but in conditions where domestic pigs are kept. When there are no elementary biosecurity measures, the epizootic risk is high. Therefore, in order to stop the really extremely high intensity at the beginning of July, it started at the end of June, the most unpopular measures were taken because of the missing biosecurity measures, which made the extremely high episootic risk of spread of the disease. After all, the total recapitulation to date for the volume you see is extremely high. However, with a view to empathy, understanding we have defined a really form of support to clean up all these farms. If we applied all the strictness to the Law, it wouldn't even be there. It's the truth! That's by law. This support is for people's empathy and gratitude. I'm using this case to really thank you. Because this intensity of African swine fever has decreased dramatically thanks to all the people who have fulfilled this recommendation. We've reduced the nakedness of the sites where there's no safety, and we've lowered the epizootic risk. That's what science says, I don't say. For these measures there is an opinion of the Risk Assessment Centre. We have used all the practices, all the opinions on each proposal, a solution. On this crisis, we have asked for opinions from the European authorities. This is the product of world science that has defined this strategy to combat African swine fever. She's not ours. It's all written down. [[Laughter]] No, don't laugh, read! The important thing is to tell people the truth so that we can not get into such situations. Safety measures in which pigs are kept, not registration or non-registered are important. Registration is a consequence of the conditions under which these pigs are viewed. What do we do from here on out of support? I said, what order is this? 300 BGN. is the support for all people who volunteered the recommendations to reduce the population, which was without biosecurity measures, which increased the epizootic risk. That's it! How do we proceed from here? We've been communicating this with the industry as well. At present, experts of ours and externals are working on updating legislation regarding the biosecurity and measures that need to be in different types of holdings in order to reduce and minimize the epizootic risk to African swine fever. We will then proceed to relevant changes in legislation... legislation, relevant regulations, requirements. To support all this, we are working on opening up several targeted receptions. Under Measure 4.1, for large farms, the targeted support; building the biosecurity measures that are updated by the end of September by the Food Agency working group, I say again: with our and external experts. There are countries in which African swine fever has been for 12 years and have industrial production with extremely high levels of biosecurity. We'll back him up with Measure 4.1. For family holdings and small holdings We are also preparing a target reception, which is explained in an extremely simple way what are the biosecurity measures in individual farms. With these receptions, we will financially support their construction. Of course, we will register the pig holdings when they meet the conditions for biosecurity. We will register those corresponding to the epizootic situation not only in our country, but in half of Europe and in the Balkans. As you know, African swine fever is already in Serbia, northern Macedonia with extremely high intensity of detection of outbreaks in all European countries where it has already entered. I would just like to say that a practice that has been produced in this season in countries where African swine fever is several years, which, by the way, raises the question: what measures should be for biosecurity and the control of the destruction of outbreaks, that new outbreaks occurred in the areas of the old outbreaks of last year? This means that the destruction was by a corresponding omission or there was another omission in respect of all the measures taken. We're not in that hypothesis. I say a practice that has arisen since we are already in a situation that has entered into such an episode and we need to take action. These are the measures we will support them with. Separately, a training campaign of the National Agriculture Council Office began, together with representatives of the scientific community. I also take this opportunity to thank the universities in Bulgaria, the University of Thracian, the Faculty of Veterinary Studies of the University of Lesotechnics, for the support they gave to the state in these summer months, as many of the specialists stopped their vacations and were on the field with people to explain what was happening, what should be done, why it should be done. In 26 settlements we have done such training since the biosecurity measures of the individual type of holdings... personal, family farm and industrial site, by the current regulations were made with exemplary drawings. A explanatory campaign has been made from now on how we should continue to raise domestic pigs. The national interest is for us to keep our national meat production regardless of the damage. It can be repurchased. Including talks with the Commission about these targeted admissions to use some of the resources for repopulation where there was an outbreak and the measures were carried out. Our percentage of losses is considered low as such measure. It is allowed to Romania where the goal has been affected at 30%. However, these communications are yet to come and cannot be repopulated under Measure 4.1, but for all measures that are to increase biosecurity, such a measure will be possible and we are working in this direction. We need to be aware that from now on, the continuation of the cultivation of domestic pigs, no matter what site of personal holding, family farm or industrial farm, must and is possible in practice the continuation of its production only if it is at the relevant levels of safety. That's it! We will make every effort to make these measures extremely clear, spoken to people in an accessible language, when they are involved to avoid an episootic risk to the respective areas, territories, they can be and will be registered. If a new outbreak is detected, they will already be compensated under the general legislative order that exists at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask Minister Taneva by the National Representative Christian Vigenin about the consequences of the measures taken by the government to deal with the alleged presence of small ruminants plague. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! You just said it was important to tell the truth. I welcome that. Now let's see what the truth is about another plague from last year, about small ruminants. More than a year after the government, respectively the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, launched a mass slaughter of sheep and goats in Strandzha under the pretext that the disease of small ruminants was first identified in Bulgaria. The last year's tests showed the presence of antibodies in dozens of herds in the districts of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo, but no animal died from the disease in question. The only case in the village of Voden, which became an excuse for the series of actions of the Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety, clearly proved to be a mistake, because the virus has not been isolated yet, therefore it cannot be determined a strain that can give an indication of where the disease came from, if there was at all. In this regard, I would like to ask you: first, has the damage caused by the pest of small ruminants been assessed and, respectively, the actions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, both directly and indirectly? Has an analysis been carried out in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the adequacy of the actions of the responsible institutions in relation to the plague? Secondly, what is the amount of national and European funds used to compensate the owners of slaughtered herds and animals, tests and other measures related to dealing with the plague? Thirdly, what measures has the State taken to restore livestock farming in the affected areas and to improve the system of compensation and support for farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Vigenin, yes, this case is very famous. Before I start answering the questions, I would like to say that I want to be correct enough in our speech and the terms we use. I would like to introduce you to CIRAD's final report on the European Union Plague Laboratory for Small ruminants on 16 May 2019, namely: The European Union Reference Laboratory (CIRAD) identified the presence of the small ruminants plague virus in 24 blood samples obtained in June and July 2018 from the suspected outbreaks of small ruminants plague in the districts of Yambol and Burgas using two different methods of RT-PCR and RT QPCR for this purpose. The laboratory also found antibodies to small ruminants plague in 60 small ruminants serum taken as farm samples in the districts of Yambol and Burgas. The samples were obtained in August 2018. These results provided clear confirmation that the plague of small ruminants entered Bulgaria because we received clear positive results from the blood samples using a RT QPCR test, which is a very strong and highly sensitive method used by all international and national reference laboratories for the detection of small ruminants plague. We have received positive serological results confirmed by the viral neutralization test, the Golden Standard (Golden Standard) recommended by the Terrestrial Animal Guide of the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE). In conclusion, clear positive results were obtained for the presence of small ruminants virus in Bulgaria, but the samples obtained were not sufficiently high levels of ribonucleic acid to establish sequency. The establishment of the strain type shall in any event not affect the measures to be applied in accordance with the requirements of European Union legislation on the management and eradication of the disease. This is from the European Union Reference Laboratory for Small Cattle Plague (CIRAD), as I said. It is available at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and you can receive this message. On the issues raised. According to the first of them, the outbreak of small ruminants in Bulgaria in 2018 amounted to more than 666 thousand euros in direct costs, of which about 423 thousand in compensation for killing, destroyed animals and just over 243 thousand in operational costs related to outbreaks, cleaning, disinfection, sampling and testing. This amount does not include indirect losses suffered by prohibitions on the movement of live animals and products thereof imposed by the European Union and trading partners. The actions taken by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are entirely under European and national law. On the basis of the national legislation and the national contingents plan to limit the spread of the disease by order of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, all necessary measures are taken to control and eradicate the disease, as part of the measures include the formation of restricted and protective zones The imposition of these restrictive measures obliges farmers to switch into a disproved animal farming regime where their feeding is provided with feed. This, in turn, increased farming costs and generated an additional financial burden for farmers engaged in the cultivation of this type of animal. In this regard, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has taken measures to compensate for some of the operating costs arising from the occurrence of the disease. A decision was taken at a meeting of the Management Board of the State Fund....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 926 thousand. BGN 429. in the following directions, as follows: the injured farmers with a warrant of 3 km restrictive zone, prohibiting the removal of the animals to grazing, as well as the trade in raw milk are compensated by the minimum aid for the benefit of the primary agricultural production of sheep and goat milk for the period of the ban until the end of the lactating period of the animals of the amount of BGN 48. for sheep mothers and goats mothers. The rates are formed on the basis of a forecast realised residue of raw milk at an average market buying-in price. I should point out that this group includes farmers whose animals are euthanised and have, respectively, suffered missed benefits from the implementation of agricultural production from the date of euthanisation until the end of the lactating period. The affected farmers with a warrant for 10 km restricted zone in Yambol district, Yambol municipality, Straldzha municipality, Tundzha municipality with a one-week ban on the sale of raw milk are compensated for the missed benefits of the implementation of primary agricultural production of sheep and goat's milk by means of minimal assistance of de minimis. The estimate is formed at a single rate of 15 BGN. compensation for the number of animals. The affected farmers from 3 kilometers and 10 kilometers of restricted zones have also benefited additionally from the aid of 7 leva de minimis. for a retail live animal provided to all sheep and goat farmers to compensate for the reduction in the buying-in price of raw milk in 2018 compared to 2017. In this way, the real support they have received is respectively: falling within a 3-km containment zone of BGN 55, for one mother sheep or a mother goat falling within a 10-km containment zone of BGN 22. for a sheep or a goat mother. At present, these are funds spent by the state budget, and for the same Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has requested co-financing from the European Union and according to their rules and the respective deadlines should be obtained. As regards compensation for destroyed animals under current legislation, the owners of identified and killed animals from the registered establishments in the affected settlements shall be subject to compensation under art. 141 " 148" of the Animal Treatment Act and the Regulation on the Conditions and Conditions for the Expenditure of the Funds to cover the costs associated with the epizootic risks. In addition, livestock farmers with euthanized animals received benefits calculated by species and categories of animals, taking into account the market price, the weight of the animal, age and its breeding activity. Thus, two types of benefits for commodities and for animals under selective control were formed. In stock animals the benefits are between BGN 140. and 190 BGN, and in those under selective control: for female animals between 234 BGN. and BGN 436 for males of BGN 390 up to BGN 713 Here I can by categories say all prices if you have a particular interest. In determining the individual price of each animal under selective control, the tribal value of the animals on the basis of its milkiness, the order of lactation, and for male breeding animals the resulting final value shall be doubled. I can also say prices by category. The National Sheep and Goat Association donates elite, highly milky animals to 25 affected farms of small ruminants.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u147	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course, the information you provided, perhaps it is also statistical, is consistent with the truth, as you promised at the beginning. Along with that, I have to say that I will meet the CIRAD Report. I will ask you an additional question further regarding the role of CIRAD and its actions, but this is a separate topic that is indirectly related to what I am asking today. One of my supplementary questions first is: I am aware that the Ministry and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency will continue to claim that the actions taken are in line with the action plans, with the European rules, but you are a new minister, you have a new team, won't you still admit that the time has shown that the first actions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency have been too extreme, that in time it has proved that they have been unnecessary, that you have corrected the actions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in the late autumn of 2018, and that perhaps someone should be responsible, first? Second, regardless of the CIRAD Report, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency itself does not have any analysis of itself, however, any conclusions more than a year later, how this happened with the small ruminants plague, where and how it came in, is it a vaccine virus, i.e. the abuse of vaccines, if that is the case.... what measures have been taken to improve control? Based on a question that I have asked your predecessor here, it turns out, again, that dozens of herds in the autumn of 2018 proved to be with animals in which antibodies from the virus were found, including not only Yambol and Burgas, but also Haskovo. My second question is: will you continue to apply the double standard? In a similar situation, as I said, in the autumn of 2018, the herds in which animals with antibodies were found were not eradicated. Only the animals in which these antibodies were found were withdrawn and eradicated. At the same time, the order of BABBH continues to stand, requiring sanitary slaughter of the animals of Ana Petrova from Bolyarovo. To date, will you not admit that in the end she was right in defending her flock, which increased by a hundred lambs in winter? The animal that was accused of being sick had two lambs this year. I saw them myself. Do you intend to find a solution for Anna Petrova's flock? Will you cancel the order? Would you actually ask Damian Iliev to cancel the order for sanitary slaughter of the herd and remove from registration of its site? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr Vigenin, as far as I am concerned about the herd of the person you are quoting regarding the order issued, I believe there is a court procedure under way. In this sense, the Food Agency has informed me that it will await the final decision in this case if the question was asked in this sense. With regard to the previous questions, I can only say that a double standard should not be applied regardless of which case it is. Second, in terms of these diseases and all animal diseases. Unfortunately, I say, unfortunately, because these are really very strict rules, very unpopular for people who are very damaging to them, but the truth is that we have to implement the legislation as it is, even though it is painful for all people, because this legislation is ultimately a product of European, world rules, of science that has come to these measures to combat animal diseases. No one here or who wants to hurt anyone is making that up. Yes, the legislation is very difficult. I can only state that within the scope of this legislation, if there can be easier, more sparing measures, I say again, but within the scope of these rules we cannot be outside this scope, outside these rules for several formal reasons, and for several informal reasons. The formal ones are that we are a full member of the European Union, that we have European solidarity in funding, in the costs of measures, that we have support afterwards, both on benefits and on recovery. These are reasons that Bulgaria is obliged to implement both European strategies and European legislation. The informal ones are such that, again, I say, as well as the rules of the World Organisation for Animal Health, these are created by the practice where diseases first arise and subsequently spread, what are the measures and this practice in the world has proved it to be the best. If they change, they are really very painful for people, especially for private holdings, and we will change them, but until then, obviously, this is the best way for the country in general to be best and as quickly as possible limiting the damage. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine for African swine fever, and the most unpopular measures are the only ones limiting the damage. I sincerely hope that we will be able to persuade everyone who wants to continue watching domestic pigs, and I am ultimately convinced that this concerns all people, to do so in the relevant biosecurity measures, registration, so that everyone in the chain is protected in one epizoote, protected in the same way as registered establishments, and on the other hand, to really continue to have meat production of pigmeat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u151	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin, for expressing attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Much has been commented on the plague on small ruminants. I am convinced that within the framework of parliamentary control we cannot get to the specific details because, going back, we can say that even the European rules have been exceeded. The European Directive did not require that, in the event of the detection of such a disease, all herds should be slaughtered, including those in which no infected animals were found, and the directive referred to the herd in which such animals were found. Now coming back is pointless. I only hope that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has drawn some conclusions, although they do not admit them publicly. After all, we have a situation that was evolving over time. Perhaps for panic or other reasons, the most drastic and extreme measures were taken a year and several months ago in Strandzha. Over time, these actions have been changed, other forms have been found, other solutions. As I said, instead of giving orders to kill herds where animals with antibodies were found, these animals were simply withdrawn and only infected animals with antibodies were euthanized. First of all, I would say that yes, from the point of view of the official at the Agency, things look one way, from the point of view of the people on the ground, they have another idea of things, otherwise they feel them. I'm not happy with the answer that a case is going on. Yes, there is such a case going on, what will be the final result is yet to be seen. However, I expected some commitment from you or at least an experience, as it is not directly up to you, to find some reasonable solution, because Anna Petrova is a young person who has not left much at this end of Bulgaria, with three children, she wants to live there, to develop her life there and to date, when her flock is healthy and not only visible, we wait a year and something judicial decisions that must determine whether this healthy herd will be liquidated or not. I am really asking you, not only am I asking you to find such a solution and I am allowing myself on behalf of the people of Sharkovo to invite you, tomorrow is the meeting in the village, by chance this coincident with my question today and their meeting tomorrow at 11:00, you can come and talk to the people. Do not take the blame for people who have not adequately dealt with the situation no matter what the answers say today. You have the opportunity to correct these actions and show that you understand the problems of this region of the country, which is also important for our national security, but as if too little is being done to create opportunities for people to remain there, to remain Bulgarians and to have the opportunity to develop themselves, their lives there. So despite everything, despite what we are speaking publicly today, which is being broadcast on television, I am counting on you, as a woman and a mother, to find a way to solve the problem with Anna Petrova and her flock. I'm sure there's a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u153	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u154	He has no right to be treated.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u155	Yes, it is, but it's an important case.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u156	Yes, but I can ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u158	I will not respond directly to your attitude. Those are the rules of control, I'll keep them, but I may ask for the floor. In my previous statement, I neglected to say that under Measure 6.3, which we plan to open in support of small farmers for pig farming, the areas of small ruminants and the farmers who suffered from last year's epizootia in the area you are asking about will be included. So for the target reception that we're going to cook, it's going to apply to them, too. If they enter the category for larger, they will become eligible under the other measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u159	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for your participation in control today, for your comprehensive answers. This was the last question for Minister Taneva. We continue with questions to Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov about the development of the Industrial Zone. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u160	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Karanikolov, my question is about the development of the Industrial Zone of Svilengrad. Dear Minister, Industrial Zone Svilengrad is part of and is one of the projects of the National Company Industrial Zones. It is strategically located in the town of Svilengrad, two kilometers from the border with the Hellenic Republic and 15 km from the border with the Republic of Turkey. Its distance to Maritsa Motorway is 4 km, making access to it extremely easy. The area has a terrain of 71 thousand square meters, 4250 square meters of surface area and 2500 square meters of open storage areas. The area of the Zone itself is just 50 meters from the railway connecting the Republic of Bulgaria to the Republic of Turkey and the Hellenic Republic, and this is an extremely good prerequisite for the construction of a railway terminal in this area. A few years ago the Zone had the status of a free duty free zone, and later only free. The economic activity back then was diverse and the Zone was profitable. For several years, however, losses have been accumulated for various reasons, both objective and subjective. The location and good development of the Zone can contribute to a better economic climate in Svilengrad municipality and to job creation. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Minister, what are the prospects for the development of the Industrial Zone, Svilengrad? What measures will the state take, respectively the Ministry you are leading, to attract potential investors in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Dinkov! Let me, first, wish the National Assembly a successful new political season, I am sure that it will be full and positive for the Bulgarian people, as well as for the Bulgarian economy, and not only. Dear Mr. Dinkov, first of all, I want to thank you for your question. You know that the development, construction and improvement of industrial zones is a priority for the Ministry of Economy and the Bulgarian Government. We are always happy when we talk about industrial zones when we receive proposals, including constructive criticism. The Free Zone is 100% owned by the National Company Industrial Zones. In 2018, the status of a free zone was terminated, after which the company was renamed the Industrial Zone "Svilengrad". Just here, very brief information. While it existed as a free zone, there was a decree of the Council of Ministers, long ago, long before the so-called transition, which prohibited the sale of land and the surrender of the right to construction. You know, at the moment investors prefer to buy terrains or to give them the right to build. This is why 2018, this was September, we took action to change from a free zone to an industrial zone. The accumulated problems over the years have led to a poor financial situation of the company and regardless of the measures taken for its financial recovery by the National Company "Industrial Zones', the Zone has continued to make losses since 2008. As of July 2019, the company's situation was as follows. In 2010, steps were taken to privatize the company, but the same year ended because there was no investor interest in the entire free zone then. With a 2013 protocol, the National Company "Industrial Zones" has decided to end the privatisation procedure. The National Company "Industrial Zones" adopted a plan and measures for stabilization and development of the area and the increase in capital. The main reasons for the difficult financial situation of the area are the lack of adequate infrastructure in the area. I confirm what you said. The area as terrain is on extremely good location, extremely communicative, but the infrastructure in the area itself is in extremely poor condition. It's plumbing, sewers, etcetera. This leads to frequent accidents. The condition of available spare storage rooms is also bad. There are warehouses there, but they're in a very difficult state. Lack of a road link to connect the Industrial Zone with the highway from the Greek border. Unfortunately, we find that in many state industrial areas. Nearby there are many large infrastructure locations such as roads, but during the design of the zones they are not connected to the road. The employment of most of the warehouses has a loaded, unclaimed commodity under customs control. This unfortunately turns out to be a very difficult problem because we cannot identify who the owners are, and it is very difficult to destroy someone else's goods, but we have taken these actions. The absence of the inability to release the stock by the owners leads to a number of problems for the Zone, a reduction in the value of the goods over time, as they are more than ten years; the inability to collect claims from the owners of those goods, as they are unknown; the write-off of claims as irrecoverable; the loss of benefits and income from the rents of the areas employed by those goods. In recent years, the National Company "Industrial Zones" with the permission of the Ministry of Economy has repeatedly supported the financial recovery of the Zone in Svilengrad by lending and capital increase, but for the above reasons, investors cannot be attracted regardless of the existing interest. I have already mentioned here that on 15 September 2018, we changed the status of the Zone and the aim was to offer investors the opportunity to purchase themselves, as well as to give up building rights. Last year in the Zone in Svilengrad several companies were interested, they deal with logistics and production. Eight of them are Bulgarian, eight Turkish, one Chinese, one Korean and one Greek, but for the reasons described above the most important is the poor condition of the infrastructure, they have not shown interest. At the beginning of this year, we were able to rent out two production halls. So much for the status of the Industrial Zone in Svilengrad. I'll let you know what we do from now on. First, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and I work for new legislation. It's quite new in the industrial zone section. There will, of course, be incentive measures inside to attract investors' interest in these areas. We consider the possibility during the next programming period for direct financing of industrial zones and the European Union as a final beneficiary. Of course, you are right to ask: the programming period starts in a few years, and what do we do until then? From this tribune I would like to thank all the workers at the National Company Industrial Zones and the management, which last year for the first time since the industrial zone was established, came to profit. It was about five million then. lv. The estimates for this year show that we will have twice as much profit from industrial zones. Three months ago, we launched a framework contract procedure with several construction companies to build, improve and restore infrastructure. Within a few days we start a procedure for building warehouse halls as well as production activities. I assure you that the Industrial Zone of Svilengrad will benefit from all these activities so that we can improve the infrastructure. Until now, colleagues in the Zone have not been able to undertake it, as they have not been profitable and have not had the financial capacity to do so. I guarantee you that Svilengrad is one of the areas that we will take priority. One more very important thing. We are also looking at the possibility, which is the most important thing, that we connect the roads to enter and exit the Industrial Zone. I'm also paying attention to what you told me. I will also undertake to explore the possibility with the railway corridor, i.e. to make the centre on which goods are to be unloaded, since you said it was close and, of course, the productions there. Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Dinkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u164	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You've been pretty specific. I hope the things you mentioned here happen. I think that good activity can also be developed in this area as a state policy and as a public-private partnership. By the way, the relationship with the Hellenic Republic began a long time ago. I believe that the state can allocate resources to complete this relationship and also to improve the bad infrastructure in the area. My question was also because a long time ago the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Tomislav Donchev said in an interview that in the next one or two years the state and government, and the Ministry, which you manage, will pay extreme attention to industrial zones. I hope that happens. A while ago, I had also asked Minister Goranov a question, because we have extremely big problems in Svilengrad with the customs terminal where the trucks are due. The road infrastructure, the street network is not suitable for heavy goods vehicles, and I asked him for part of this duty-free activity, with the exception of those cars that need a thorough inspection, to be moved into a duty-free zone which is state-owned. He was motivated by the need to pay rent and so on. After all, when we have such good state ownership as the industrial zone, what is the problem between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy to regulate and to move part of this activity there. I mean, there was this kind of activity going on years ago and it has the necessary base. So this could be one of the measures to revive the activity, and when there is activity in one area, then other investors come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u165	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u166	I will make one point: the National Company "Industrial Zones" has financial resources and opportunities. We will not wait for the state budget to build the infrastructure and for its improvement in the industrial zone itself. Regarding the relationship we will make, money will be sought from the state budget. It will be seen whether it will be built by the municipality, after funding from the state budget, or by the Road Infrastructure Agency. I can assure you that we will take a detailed look at this. I personally prefer that there should be production within the Industrial Zone, of course, and logistics in smaller stages, but if the customs have this desire, we will present them with the necessary location,............................doesn't need to be requited, but it really is more important for me to have production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-05.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes parliamentary control today. Thank you for your participation. The next regular plenary session shall be on 11 September 2019 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
