ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u1	[[Ringing]] : I am opening the meeting. Before we go to point one, a statement on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Bulgarian citizens! [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u3	Hold on, Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, please take your seats! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u4	On September 7, a group of media, journalists came up with a statement saying: Today is the day! Today is the day when the Bulgarian media decide that they should set the border. Our work, our honor, our ethics and our rules have nothing to do with the attempt to discredit one of the participants in the campaign for the mayor of Sofia in an incompatible way with our profession. This isn't journalism! Even more strongly, we object to those parties and individual politicians who legitimize similar media by giving them interviews, inviting their representatives to their events, paying them for advertising and PR campaigns during elections. Today is the day when we Bulgarian media ask you to stop this if your work, honor, ethics and rules have nothing to do with what happened, of course. Any other reaction is false. Now we, from BSP to Bulgaria, call: today is the day! We're not scared! Today is the day for all of us to oppose yesterday, when it was removed from the air another journalist, in the case of Silvia Veliva from the Bulgarian National Radio. Today is the day for all of us to oppose that day, when journalist Yuri Borisov was taken in handcuffs for questioning as a witness. Today is the day to oppose on 30 August when Prime Minister Boyko Borisov turned off the microphones of journalists in the Council of Ministers. But now, honourable journalists, we also appeal to you: and you do not reflect those politicians who trample on freedom of expression who order you to be fired for being uncomfortable and asking uncomfortable questions. Yesterday's case is another violation of freedom of speech. Before that were both Genka Shikerova and Milen Tsvetkov, and very much not to list them all. And not only a number of journalists, but also people who criticized the power and had a different opinion were fired from work, their families were bothered, their business was affected. Yes, yesterday was the opposition, today is journalism, tomorrow who, esteemed rulers, and Mr. Borisov will discredit? Who are you gonna gag, who are you gonna handcuff and lead us to the investigation? In the 21st century, in the heart of Europe, darkness and dictatorship. [[Noise and shout in GERB.]] Today is the day for uncomfortable questions. We call on any Bulgarian who has one to ask it to the Prime Minister in social networks, in interviews, in emails and letters to the Council of Ministers. And until they turn off my microphone, because this has happened to me from this tribune, I'm gonna ask a few things. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said: "There are so many investors that we have clogged up the roads; we have an economy, factories, thousands of truckloads of production leaving the country and exports are growing. He is what he has never been in any time. On the same day, employers, those who make the economy, not those who speak it, stated: "To the industry the question of whether a crisis is coming does not stand. Actually, the crisis has come. For June, statistics reported a decline in exports by 6.4%, for June. July reported a decline in industrial production; the business konncture for August is minus 3.1%; in machine-building, in electrical engineering, in textiles and clothing, in the production of furniture and metals we have a decline in sales, and it has been for months. What's true, Prime Minister? Your talk about the economy or the real state in the country? Another important topic of Schengen. Borisov on September 3rd: I will not accept entry into Schengen even if I am opposition. On the 12th: I did not say that we are giving up Schengen. On the 12th: "We have long been in Schengen." "And again on the 12th: "We want to enter Schengen in the future, but the Netherlands stops us for selfish reasons." One day: we are in Schengen; we do not want it; we give up; we will actually enter, but sometime in the future. And we are still in the way of the Netherlands, not that there is corruption in Bulgaria, a breakthrough in the security systems and all other vices of politics because of which we do not accept us in Schengen. So which of the two, that is, not two, but four, are true, Mr. Borisov? I am continuing with another current topic, the so-called Spy scandal and uncomfortable issues on it. Mr. Borisov, you said: "I know nothing and learned nothing from the media. " This sentence raises at least two questions, at least two options for it to be pronounced. The first, the State Agency "National Security" and the Ministry of Interior, which conducted the investigation before it entered the prosecution, are directly subordinate to the Prime Minister of Constitution and the country's laws. What does that sentence mean: I didn't know anything? Two options: either the DANS and the Ministry of Interior have informed you because they are directly subordinate to you and we all know that they do not sneeze without asking you, and you lied to the Bulgarian people that you did not know. Or the two services didn't inform you, and the question is: why are you there, what are you there? Prime Minister or straw man, and the services are doing something behind your back? We want answers to these questions! Dear Bulgarian citizens, I conclude with the following appeal: freedom has no color. If we do not unite ourselves against the darkness and dictatorship that are imposed in the country, they will take away our freedom from all of us, regardless of color. For her, we have to fight every day and together. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. We will first be introduced to the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee report. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport, Mrs. Andriana Atanasova, and Mr. Atanas Temelkov, Chairman of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u7	We are voting on this procedure. Vote 153 MPs: for 152, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u8	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 11 September 2019, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance was discussed, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Atanas Temelkov, Chairman of the State Agency Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov presented the Draft by clarifying that some of the proposed amendments ensure that the citizens and organizations of electronic administrative services will have a secure, reliable and traceable channel for submission of electronic documents and declaration of electronic administrative services. The aim is to synchronise the Law on Electronic Governance with the amendments adopted and additions to the Administrative Procedure Code (PKI) which regulate the possibility for citizens and organisations to submit applications and requests for the initiation of administrative proceedings and the provision of administrative services through the Information System for Secure Electronic Service, supported by the State Agency. The inclusion of the secure electronic service information system as a regulated way of sending electronic documents and requesting electronic administrative services will create a prerequisite for all administrative services to be declared electronically. For the purpose of public accessibility and disclosure of the means of requesting electronic administrative services, an obligation has been introduced for suppliers to communicate in an understandable and accessible manner the administrative services provided, as well as the main working process for the application, submission and receipt of electronic documents and statements. The obligation for the internal exchange of electronic documents between all administrative authorities, public authorities and bodies providing public services, which is in line with the newly adopted amendments to the APC, is regulated. The draft also provides for amendments and additions which relate to the powers of the President of the State Agency. The aim is to ensure the implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria, the implementation of architectures by policy areas and budgetary control over e-government expenditure. Mr. Zhelyazkov noted that the administrative and criminal provisions were refined. Administrative measures have been imposed to prevent and suspend infringements of this law and its implementing regulations, as well as to eliminate the negative consequences thereof. New compositions of administrative violations are envisaged. The bill proposes dropping the provisions related to the state enterprise.. A single system operator. The activities of system integration are entrusted to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Next, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations. Administrative authorities, public-functioning persons as well as public-service providers should ensure accessibility of the content of their websites and mobile applications to consumers, in particular to disabled persons. To this end, it is necessary that the websites and mobile applications comply with the harmonised standards laid down in accordance with art. 6 of Directive (EU) 2016/2102. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place. People's representative Halil Letifov asked questions about the award of the services and services of the system integration activities of the information systems used by the state authorities. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At its meeting on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mrs. Janeta Rogova, Head of Department at the Department of Legal Affairs and by the Department of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rogova, who pointed out that it aims to ensure a secure, reliable and traceable method for submitting electronic documents and requesting electronic administrative services in accordance with the agreed amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code. It added that the proposed changes ensure the internal exchange of electronic documents between administrative authorities and lay down rules for the implementation of the Secure Electronic Service Information System. Ms. Rogova added that in implementation of the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria the powers of the Chairman of the State Agency are being refined.The administrative criminal provisions are being complemented by the administrative rules and the activities of system integration are being entrusted to The draft legislation introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 and provides measures to increase digital accessibility, integration and social inclusion of disabled people. It entrusts administrative authorities and public functions and public services to ensure accessibility of the content of their websites and mobile applications. In order to create an effective mechanism for the implementation of the Directive, the order of dispute and complaint is regulated, providing that the President of the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, training of employees is provided for in establishing, managing and updating the available content of the websites and mobile applications, as well as enhancing their qualifications in this area. In addition, the Law contains legal definitions of the concepts used and lays down the time limits within which debtors should fulfil their accessibility obligations in accordance with the time frame laid down in the Directive. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev, Hamid Hamid and Pencho Milkov. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Hamid expressed their support for the Bill and added that the proposed legislative changes are the result of the adopted amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the European Parliament, without votes, and 4 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Following is a Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you are, Mr. Veselinov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At a regular meeting held on 12 September 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. Mrs. Adriana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the Commission meeting. The draft aims to ensure efficiency and security in the provision of electronic administrative services to citizens and organisations, taking into account the amendments and additions adopted to the Administrative Procedure Code, which introduced regulatory requirements for the electronic application of administrative services, the service of documents electronically to citizens and organisations and the internal exchange of electronic documents between administrative authorities. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance is to ensure the development, implementation and upgrade of the necessary information resources of electronic management in compliance with the requirements for network and information security and interoperability, as well as the implementation of a sustainable model for their long-term management and maintenance. The proposed amendments ensure that citizens and organisations of electronic administrative services will have a secure, reliable and traceable channel for the submission of electronic documents and the declaration of electronic administrative services. The powers of the Chairman of the State Agency are revised to ensure the implementation of the Strategy for Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria. Amendments and additions to administrative criminal provisions have been proposed. Forced administrative measures have been laid down to prevent and suspend violations of the Law and its implementing regulations and to eliminate the negative consequences of them. Part of the amendments to the Law relate to the introduction of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 in national law and ensuring greater accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies based on the general accessibility requirements. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 9 votes, without the votes of the Council of Ministers and 6 votes, abstention is proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers, be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u14	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting, held on 11 September 2019, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who presented the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. Mr. Zanchev pointed out that the Bill aims to ensure efficiency and security in providing electronic administrative services to citizens and organisations, given the agreed amendments and additions to the Administrative Procedure Code, which is the first of the three procedural codes introducing regulatory requirements for electronic declaration of administrative services, service of documents electronically to citizens and organisations and internal exchange of electronic documents between administrative authorities. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance is to ensure the development, implementation and upgrade of the necessary information resources of electronic management in compliance with the requirements for network and information security and interoperability, as well as the implementation of a sustainable model for their long-term management and maintenance. A group of proposed amendments to the Bill includes introducing the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2016 in national legislation and ensuring greater accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector organisations on the basis of the general accessibility requirements. In this regard, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance aims to ensure and ensure principles and measures to be followed when creating, maintaining and updating websites and mobile applications to become more accessible to consumers and, in particular, to disabled people. Digital accessibility is among the main principles in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (KCPU). According to art. 9 of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, digital accessibility is a condition for integration and social inclusion. According to the UN Convention, persons with permanent physical, mental, intellectual and sensory disabilities, who, among other obstacles, may hinder their full and effective participation in society equal to other people, are involved in the concept of the Disabilities. Given that Directive (EU) 2016/2102 contains requirements for minimum harmonisation for accessibility of websites and mobile applications and encourages the application of accessibility requirements on websites and mobile applications covered by existing national law, the inclusion of additional categories of persons is in full compliance with the objectives that it sets itself to ensure access, in particular to persons with disabilities, main websites, administration, public bodies and other entities providing public services, as their content is important for the daily lives of that group of citizens and through this content they receive the necessary access to basic data and administrative and public services. The bill envisions the Minister of Labour and Social Policy at the request of the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" to present a very sensitive opinion on issues which are not technical and are related to the specific needs of people with disabilities when such issues arise in the observations, checks and reviews or in the examination of complaints. This rule is in line with the specific competence of the President of the State Agency of Electronic Management on Technical and Technology Issues, where it is necessary to comply with other aspects and specific needs of disabled persons, the problem should be addressed by the competent administration in this area. In conclusion, Mr. Zanchev said that the proposed amendments and additions will implement the objectives of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and will provide accessibility for people with disabilities to the websites and mobile applications of a wide range of administrative bodies and persons performing public functions, which will facilitate their daily lives and enable them to access information and services in an appropriate way. The discussion was attended by the MPs Mihail Hristov and Svetlana Angelova. Following the conclusion of the discussion and voting with results: 18 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ STATEMENT: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. We continue with the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Law on Electronic Governance At its regular meeting on 11 September 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The draft was presented by Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Importers point out that the bill aims to ensure efficiency and security in providing electronic administrative services to citizens and organisations, given the amendments and additions adopted in the Administrative Procedure Code, which is the first of the three procedural laws introducing regulatory requirements for electronic application of administrative services, service of documents electronically to citizens and organisations and internal exchange of electronic documents between administrative authorities. The changes should provide for the development, upgrade and implementation of the necessary information resources of electronic management, subject to network and information security and interoperability requirements, as well as a sustainable model for long-term management and financial resources to support these information resources. The Law also provides for the introduction of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 into national legislation to ensure greater accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies based on the general accessibility requirements. In this regard, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance aims to ensure and ensure principles and measures to be followed when creating, maintaining and updating websites and mobile applications to become more accessible to consumers and, in particular, to disabled people. Importers expect that the proposed amendments and additions will implement the objectives of Directive (EU) 2016/2102 and provide accessibility for disabled persons to the websites and mobile applications of a wide range of administrative bodies and public functions, which should facilitate their daily lives and enable access to information and services in a suitable way. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstention of the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. We are continuing the debate. I open the debate, you have the floor to speak. Hey, guys, any speeches? Mr. Bonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are offered the next legal changes that must solve the problems in the administrative service of citizens and companies to which we can treat as a new fresh breeze in the realization of e-government. A slightly deeper review of the texts proposed by the government shows that there is a deep misunderstanding in the administration of the Council of Ministers regarding the overall ideology of e-government. Once again, we are getting proposals for legal changes that will not only not change the way the state administration works, but will lead to spending money on interim projects that will be legally regulated. The establishment of a single system operator shall be cancelled. It is not clear how the remuneration for this work will be determined, it is not clear who will maintain the system of the State Agency for Electronic Governance. In practice, the Agency is subject to the obligation to maintain the state administration... something for which the Agency does not have the necessary capacity at present. The Agency itself reconciles two functions. Firstly, to define and control state policy in the field of e-government. Secondly, to maintain the infrastructure of the public administration. Nowhere is the power of the President of the State Agency for Electronic Governance to maintain the state administration system. The President of the State Agency for Electronic Governance may build some of them, but not support them. It is unclear why part of the provisions of the Law only enter 2021. An interesting moment in the current bill are the proposed changes related to the electronic identification of citizens when declaring electronic services by the state administration. A significant omission in the proposed changes is the fact that no legal provision has been proposed to confirm the legal validity of the electronic form of documents as dominant over paper. With the application of the requirements of art. 18 of the Ordinance on general requirements for information systems, registers and electronic administrative services of the Law on Electronic Governance began an intensive exchange of documents in electronic form. Administrations do not know whether the use of paper-based documentary content is exhausted or continues to operate under the conditions of electronic exchange of documents. This leads to the mass misdemeanor practice after sending the documentary content in electronic form, to be re-sent but located in paper form. This, in addition to being ridiculous, leads to purely technical problems in processing documents. There are paradoxes in which the electronic document was processed prior to receipt of the paper document. There may also be many other consequences resulting from the misconception of some of the proposed texts in this bill. That is why our parliamentary group will propose between first and second reading the correction of most of the problems and will abstain on the proposed bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Letifov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we will support this bill at first reading, of course, with this condition that it really needs to be revised. However, there are essential things in it that we need to check out, review very responsibly, and some things to clarify. Yes, powers are transferred from one state enterprise to another entity which is currently a commercial company. This bill concerns Directive 2102/2016, in which we are already in a penal procedure, of course, the lightest, but we are already in such a procedure as is for the accessibility of the websites regulated in that directive. We must adopt and synchronise our legislation with Directive 2102, move towards the integration of this directive and this accessibility, especially with regard to people with disabilities. On the other hand, the changed powers of the State Agency In this case, it is the bearer of e-government policy, and we must find its worthy place in this transfer of responsibility, clear this moment and then answer the questions asked. I sincerely hope that between the two readings we will find this balance so that there is no doubt about the decision that is being made today and what needs to be done already in changing the texts at second reading. We will support at first reading proposals Draft with the idea of keeping sanctions under this penal procedure, but between the two readings a lot of ambiguities must be clarified. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! There is no way to pass this quietly, slightly changing the Law on Electronic Governance, because once again here we are witnessing the government's failure to conduct the e-government policy. We have to tell each other these things because this law is starting to look like the Road Traffic Act, where we are offered changes in 2 months. Two billion leva spent the Bulgarian state introducing electronic government. Mr. Donchev was in charge of this e-government coming here and swearing to us how in a very fast time they are doing everything possible to make this happen, how Bulgarian citizens will be digitized. He explained to us how we are analog politicians, and in the end it turns out that the analog politicians are not the BSP politicians, but the government because I do not know how many years Mr. Donchev manages this portfolio, but for several weeks, unclear why he has been transferred to the other Deputy Prime Minister. Nobody said what was the reason for this transfer. Failure to cope with the tasks, inability, no one explained. We read from the media that this portfolio is already being dealt with by his colleague, Deputy Prime Minister. What's happening right now? We created this state agency to speed up the process of introducing e-government. We all supported this because we say that e-government is the only sure measure to combat corruption, only that corruption must be fought in practice, with cases, not with fairy tales here, from this Chamber, or from this chair here at the Council of Ministers. We need to work and we need electronic management to be introduced, and we are witnessing the cancellation of the introduction of new personal documents where the electronic identifier is placed. When is this thing gonna happen? When will the order be announced? When will Bulgarian citizens have the document with which they will be able to identify themselves in order to work the e-government so that you can not go to the municipality, but remotely identify yourself? That's why no one's talking. We are now offered to take out functions from the State Agency By the way, experiments in many other areas you are trying to do, honourable Members. I would like to ask from this platform: who in this country I understand that this is not a priority for the Prime Minister, will take responsibility and tell the Bulgarian citizens when we will actually have electronic government in Bulgaria; when will corruption in the country be stopped? Because this is one of the measures, all Bulgarian citizens know it. It is best known by the Bulgarian government and makes every effort not to have this thing happen by constantly proposing changes in legislation, constantly moving functions from one structure to another, without being secured, without thinking whether there is a possibility of this happening, only electronic governance to be delayed, not to be put into operation, and therefore corrupt practices to continue quietly, quietly, while we here in this House, the MPs, allow it, because we are all responsible for this thing not to happen together. My appeal is not to support this law and to give a clear signal to the government that it has to do its job. There is a legislative basis on which it should work, there is a Law on Electronic Governance, and there is no constant need for the fight between different lobbys in the government to be carried here in this Chamber, and we to solve the problems of these internal dependencies. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The line, Mr. Popov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Svilenski, you asked when the Bulgarian society will finally be digitized and that this thing was not done. I don't agree with you. I think that after the NRA affair all of Bulgaria is online, we are all digitized and we are one big happy online family with all our data on the Internet. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u25	Second line? There's no second line. It's a hole, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u26	You're right, Mr. Popov, thank you for the line. You forgot the break-in in the Trade Register, and there we took out the people's properties, the companies, it's all public, now the NRA's data. Again, however, we do not know who is taking responsibility in these scandals. They passed quietly, we reassured the citizens that there was no problem, that their properties would not be stolen or that credit would not be withdrawn, but the problem is there. The problem is there and he, unfortunately, is not in this room right here, should be standing next to me on the right, but he's not. Thank you. [[Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u27	Mr. Svilensky, I'm not gonna say anything on your part. We'll continue with the speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance, No 902-01-41, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote 148 MPs: 105, against 3, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will make a proposal under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for extension by three weeks the deadline for submitting written proposals under the adopted Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53. [[Applause.]] They voted 147 MPs: 146 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We interrupt work until 11:00 p.m. Start of parliamentary control at 11:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u28	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period 5 September 2019 to 12 September 2019 from: - National Representative Anton Kutev to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the national policy of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the development of relations with the Russian Federation for the successful realization of the Bulgarian national interests. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 September 2019; - National Representative Anton Kutev of Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, on the policies of the Ministry of Interior for guaranteeing the constitutional rights of citizens. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 September 2019; - National Representative Pavel Shopov to Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy, on the Strategy for the Family and Child. Response should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 September 2019; Written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Siderova. Here you are, you have the floor, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u29	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I use the procedure to make a communication that the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints, together with the Committee on Health, the National Centre for Transmigratory Hematology and the Bulgarian Red Cross, is organizing a blood donation action among the MPs and employees of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Blood will be taken to all who are willing to donate voluntarily, and the only requirement is, of course, to be healthy and carry personal documents. I hope that we will show empathy and really demonstrate to society the importance of voluntary blood donation for maintaining the system of transfusion haematology and the importance of really supporting the healthcare system with something precious that everyone can donate and that can save human life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u30	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. A declaration on behalf of a group, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! After a few days the new 2019 school year, celebration of the new beginning and universal hope for better education and future of the children of Bulgaria begins. Today it is education that is the safest investment for a better life and successful realization. For us from GERB this is a national priority and for the first time this was written in the Law on pre-school and school education adopted in the previous term of Mr. Borisov's government. The foundation of the Law is the understanding that every child has talent and our responsibility is to find and develop it. The replacement of this philosophy through various orders and instructions would mean not only failure of reform but also failure of the idea of inclusive education. We will not allow such a hypothesis because every Bulgarian child has the right to quality education and this is the cause for which it is worth each of us, in this Chamber, to swallow their personal ambitions and political differences. All of us - politicians, directors, teachers, public figures, parents - must unite in order to turn the Bulgarian school into our school and together give a chance for an equal start to each child. From the personal success of each student, who in days will cross the threshold of our home school, depends on the future of our country. We are therefore extremely proud that Bulgarian Commissioner Maria Gabriel is committed to creating new prospects for the young generation. Increasing the quality of education that we have been working for in the last ten years, expanding its dimensions and becoming a priority for European countries. In the next five years, Maria Gabriel will have the unique chance to work to promote research and innovation as opportunities for developing Europe's potential, priorities that we all share. That is why we continue our commitment to Bulgarian parents and their children to change Bulgarian education through new educational programs, including vocational education, to cover more children in kindergartens and classrooms, to increase the remuneration of teachers and also to give them the freedom to choose their own way to teach. The average gross salary in the educational system, honourable Members, in September 2017 was 900 BGN, next year will be over 1500 BGN. In 2021 it will reach nearly 1,800 BGN, which will fulfill the government's promise of a double increase in teachers' salaries compared to the beginning of the term. An additional 360 million will be provided for the 2020 budget. lv. for the remuneration of educators, an additional amount will be allocated in 2021. This year and last year, the most repairs were carried out, and this summer they were in over a thousand schools. For the 2007-2013 programming period, priority projects for more than 430 million have been implemented by the Education Infrastructure. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and In addition to them, funds from national programmes from the state budget are invested in improving the material base, and the share of municipal projects of funding for improving the quality of the educational environment is serious. Dear colleagues, today's students discover the world instantly, their universe are the Internet and social networks and well-prepared and motivated teachers depend on accepting the school as a place of learning and entertainment, as a dream factory that comes true. The innovative teachers will write the new page in the history of Bulgarian education. It is up to them that our future will receive not only knowledge and competences, but also life lessons that are not written in any curriculum..... that besides knowledge are important and virtues, such as friendship, respect, trust and hard work. The education of today's children depends on what leaders tomorrow will lead the state and will lead our society forward. September 15th is the day for gratitude to our teachers, those who held our insecure hand while writing our first cops, and today they help our children confidently express I am a Bulgarian child and grow healthy and brave. Dear colleagues, there are many teachers among us in plenary. Let's give them a round of applause! They deserve this. [[Applause.]] On the threshold of the new school year, dear colleagues, I will address you with a call: the political seasons have no place in the field of education! September 15th must be the day of the new compound, which will make the Bulgarian school stronger and ready to face the new challenge! Let us not forget that only educated and knowledgeable people can build their future and that of our country. Only educated people can fulfill their dreams, create, make scientific discoveries, be innovators, be personalities! That is why we want and work for a school that raises free and democratic thinking people. I will conclude with a quote: "Freedom, Sancho, is one of the most precious goods God gives people. Neither the treasures of the earth nor those of the sea can compare with it. For freedom as well as honor, life can and must be sacrificed. And vice versa, imprisonment is the greatest evil that can befall man. On the eve of the first day of school, dear students, teachers, parents, we wish you health and a successful new school year! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. For a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr Errol Mehmet has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u33	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! In the Bulgarian calendar September 15th, without being officialized as a holiday, brings the meaning and atmosphere of the holiday day, Day 1 is for first graders, but it seems more for their caring parents. For other students and their good teachers, September 15th is the beginning of a new time of study in which life develops rapidly and requires new knowledge. Education has been a value since time immemorial, but in developed societies it is a priority state policy, a main goal, aspiration and achievement. In Bulgaria, however, we have traditions, we keep them zealous, we fight new technologies, we do not want new responsibilities, we often oppose new ideas and methods and the new way of teaching. During the whole transition we maintain a living myth about good Bulgarian education, but the world is developing because science is developing rapidly, and this requires that the foundations of a new pedagogy be laid in which all together to learn, create and develop new knowledge, deepening their skills and shaping their worldview. Education must prepare generations for the dynamics of the future. Did the Bulgarian school succeed in this mission? Although we are critical, we should not be pessimistic, but if we are responsible, we will make efforts for the necessary reforms and with a new attitude towards the system we will ensure the necessary quality. For the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is extremely important and it is a binding component in our overall policy. Dear colleagues, speaking of the knowledgeable people on tomorrow, I will remind everyone that a discussion on the content of the history books and civilizations for the X class proved the low level of historical thought in Bulgaria. This scandal has shown very clearly that Bulgarian historiography is indebted to our society. Before us was revealed how ideology conquered science and how truth could be clouded and manipulated. Following the corrections made in the textbooks in the DPS, we are adamant that the court of history has not yet spoken and the whole truth about the crimes of the totalitarian state and the communist power are not written in fullness. Our children do not yet know about the inhuman abuse during the so cynically called revival process with its characteristic and chronology, about the first in socialist Bulgaria many thousand protests of the Bulgarian Turks in May 1989, about the ethnic cleansing called the Big Tour. But if Bulgarian historians have no conscience and responsibility over generations, we will keep the memory alive in time. And this crime against humanity is an indelible part of the latest history of Bulgaria. The fact is, however, that the students of the tenth grade will have touch on the true story after the divided ninth day of September 1944 and this will be new knowledge for both students and their parents. Dear MPs, today with colleagues we focus on the role of the Bulgarian school and in this regard it is important to note that the Bulgarian commissioner is taking on an extremely important portfolio in which education and innovation are essential. On the first day of school, this is news and we sincerely hope that this will be a new European beginning for Bulgarian education. We share the expectations that this will give a new impetus and raise our education to another level and, as a country, we will also receive financial support for introducing new technologies and innovations in this area. It is unacceptable to fall behind, it is unforgivable not to take advantage of the achievements of modern science. Finally, on behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, before the first day of school, we call on all parents to invest in the education of their children. This brings joy, pride, and satisfaction. We also appeal to all students to seek new knowledge not only in textbooks, but, being curious, to discover new horizons in the open and free technological world. And good teachers to continue to create good teachers, good doctors, good builders of today's and tomorrow's Bulgaria. It's a successful new school year! It's a good one! Happy Thanksgiving, guys! [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, will be the first to answer the questions. She will answer a question from the MP Pavel Shopov concerning road restraint immediately before the Rila monastery of collapsing land masses. Here you are, Mr. Shopov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Avramova, if I do not respond to the disgusting and insolent statement of the spokesperson before me from the DPS, in one...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u36	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u37	...a certain part of him... [[(Shouting from DPS: "Eee! ") Come on now!]] I say, in a certain part of him... [[(Relations from the DPS: Let's release him for two sessions.) The National Assembly is leaving the Chamber.)]] ...I won't answer just out of respect for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u38	Mr. Shopov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u39	But for this day, a world for the Bulgarians, 15 September, to make such ethnic suggestion and for the benefit of foreign national interest, is not acceptable! Now to the question I've asked you. It is known that the Rila Monastery is the Bulgarian Sveta Gora, that the Rila Monastery is a place of worship, Jerusalem for us Orthodox Bulgarians. Hundreds, thousands of Bulgarians visit the monastery every year and I have always said that every Orthodox Bulgarian should visit the Rila Monastery at least once in his life. The monastery is visited by these hundreds, thousands of people each year in two qualities. The first is the pilgrims, we must make a difference, Orthodox Christians who go to worship the icons and light a candle, and another part, including thousands of foreign citizens, unorthodox Bulgarians go to the monastery just to visit it, if you will, even as tourists. We will not deny that attempts are being made to maintain the road, but there are severe problems at the moment. The biggest problem is a landslide that has been bothering us for years and the problem with it cannot be solved. One of the assumptions, one explanation, I don't know how true it is that one of the maintenance and repair companies previously purchased inert material [[the President signals that time has run out]] from a rock that she has given, and stones are constantly dragged down. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: when will this problem finally be resolved, which has been for many years? Is there anything big going on? We know that it is expensive, but for this important road in the Republic of Bulgaria it is necessary to apply a special care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u40	Mr. Shopov, you delayed the time because of your unacceptable suggestion regarding a parliamentary group. You're welcome, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, my procedure is in the way of conduct, as my fellow Member has allowed himself to violate the Rules of Procedure and comment on statements on behalf of a parliamentary group. This, according to the Rules, is unacceptable. He made suggestions that probably as a sin flowed into his soul, but not from the statement of the colleague who was before me. Firstly, it has no right to assess a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group and this declaration. Secondly, it was entirely in the spirit of national responsible behavior. I ask you not to allow any more such performances that are detrimental to both parliamentary and statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u42	I accept the remark I made twice to him, as can be done, and I believe it has indeed been violated...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u43	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u44	Let us give the Minister an opportunity to respond, to finish the procedure for question, response, replica and duplicate. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u45	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, your question concerns three compromised sections of Republican Road III-107, Kocherinovo, Rila, Rila Monastery, Kirilova Polyana, at km 27+665, km 27+700 and km 27+775. Following an engineering and geological examination by expert geologists of the three compromised sections of Republican road III-107, it has been found that due to fallen pouring rain and snow precipitation in the autumn, winter and spring, intensive snow melting, the subsequent long and heavy rain showers have been significantly moistened terrain, including with a large slope towards the road lane, and have led to the activation of major collapse processes. The three sections are located at the bottom of the right slope of the Rilska River. The road in the section is in mixed profile.. excavation, embankment, rock complex is intensely cracked. In accordance with the specific geodynamic conditions, events are recommended to stabilise critical sections, which are differentiated in two stages, namely: First, emergency events to restore movement along the entire track gauge with pallet actions to remove dangerous rock blocks from the shoals, dangerous trees from the edge of the cliffs, temporarily refracting and clearing of the road lane. Second, full-strength stabilisation events involving: carrying out engineering geological and hydro-geological studies, preparing a technical strengthening project to treat the construction of support walls at the base of critical vents, further crushing of rock blocks, placing high-strength networks anchored or placing trapping systems on support walls, as well as the making of drainage channels at the upper edge of the vents. During the months of August-September 2018, according to the approved task of the road-support company, the implementation of emergency and reconstruction activities has been entrusted to overcome the collapse processes, which include: destruction of dangerous rock blocks, removal of dangerous trees along the edge of the ground, clearing the road with removal of part of the rock material allowing operation in the 15 metres section of the damaged rock material remaining at the base of the ground, in order to hinder this stage, to propel part of the still unstable rock to conduct events until full stabilisation. In 2019 additional means for emergency strengthening of the section were approved, the contractor started activities to strengthen the collapses. In order to secure road traffic in the area of the collapse zones, measures were taken to build trapping barrier systems in the road lane area that would not allow the uncontrolled fall of rock masses on it. Due to the instability of the terrain and the inability to place them, the actions were stopped. An attempt was made to secure the precinct and the New Jersey system. Following an examination and analysis by specialists, geodesists of the collapse sections have been found to be in an active stage of development and there is a real danger of falling of individual or group of rock blocks and a new increase in the affected areas from the collapse processes. In view of the above, the Road Infrastructure Agency (API) included a project on the Republican Road III-107 in the 2019 API emergency programme. For the establishment of engineering and geological conditions in the area of the affected areas and clarification of the causes, scope and dynamics of the emerging processes and for obtaining sufficient volume of reliable indicators for the properties of the array, archive, field, laboratory engineering and geotechnical studies will be carried out. A design assignment has been prepared for the section, which in August has been confirmed, and the purpose of the assignment is to design a technical project, to validate the project and to grant a building permit so that actions can be taken for construction works. A procedure for selecting a consultant for the site is yet to be announced. The project will be financed by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and its indicative value is 6 million. 457 thousand. 500 BGN, which includes both construction and research activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u46	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u47	Dear Minister, for me this question and the answer you give are very important. I wanted to see if the problem was serious, and I can see that there's really an understanding of it. At the moment, there has been a backhoe standing there for a long time, which is kind of like a watchful one when stones and some rock mass fall, to clear the road at least in one lane. There is a danger to passersby who often stop cars and reject the fallen stones from the road ahead. In this regard, I would ask you to take this issue in a special report to you. One of the wonders of the world cannot be recognized and thus considered the Rila Monastery, no path and no access and there is a danger that one of the travelers will suffer. Thank you very much for understanding and staying all with the expectation that something will be done to solve this purely technically very complicated case and not to pity money. It's obvious that if that six million isn't enough... In any case, we hope there will be a solution to this, but the problem will be solved. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u48	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to make a duplicate.....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u49	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Shopov, the problem is really technical. In the statement of the answer to your question, I have already explained all the procedures that have been taken to strengthen this collapse. In addition, just to say that the funds are provided by the Road Infrastructure Agency and for this site as well as for many others on the Republican road network. 74 number of landslides and collapses on the territory of Bulgaria. On 4 September, the government adopted a decree enabling the Road Infrastructure Agency to deploy strengthening activities, allowing the Ministry to make commitments for expenditure specifically for landslide and demolition processes up to 447 million. $100,000. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u51	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u52	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u53	Madam President, yes, it is true, I was in violation of the regulations. I had no right under his regulations to express my opinion, but I was so outraged by the suggestions that were being made and the use of the moment for narrow-party depesarian purposes that I did not abstain. But my objection to you and to what I would like to teach you as a former Vice-President of the National Assembly is that we were in a hearing procedure for questioning, hearing the Minister, and had to be exhausted this procedure, as it is now exhausted, to allow someone to make a comment or make a statement in the manner of conduct. But you just couldn't stand it, and so could the DPS. Maybe that's the order with you. Someone wants it, and they need to be given it right away, purely party-like. That's your party scheme, hierarchy. What is my remark in the manner of conduct: in such cases, run out, first, the procedure as you have exhausted it. I also asked you to give me the floor in the manner of conduct after the DSS gentleman's statement, but you correctly didn't give it to me because we were in procedure. And you yourself said: let the hearing pass on the matter, and then as you rightly gave it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. The order in the Chamber shall be determined by the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. This is the only rule, and the only rules are those that need to be followed. Any other suggestion is irregular, incorrect or is intended for another type of suggestion. And I accept your confession that you violated the procedure as well. We're continuing with parliamentary control. The following is a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov concerning violations in the implementation of the project "Improvement of the educational infrastructure in the city of Shumen" by the Operational Program "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020". Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Dear Minister, on 11 July 2019 was broadcast a report on TV bTV, reflecting poor repair at the school of Panayot Volov, part of the project "BG16RF0P001-1.014-002" from the Operational Program "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020." A number of violations and the discontent of teachers were reflected in the report. Of course, the issue today may also be in line with the coming school year and the heartfelt declarations that have been made here from the stands, and it is very important, of course, to understand what is happening. I ask you to answer me: have measures been taken by the MRB to detect and impose sanctions on these infringements; have payments been made by the contracting authority for the poor MIR and have they been accepted as qualitatively implemented; are there any other violations of the implementation of the contract under the quoted project in its part of the School of Education "Panayot Volov" in the city of Shumen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, on 27 June 2018 the beneficiary of Project At present, the beneficiary has not submitted a request for reimbursement of expenditure on actual works carried out, including for the site of the project Panayot Volov, which is why the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme has not received any information about the activities implemented and accepted by the beneficiary poorly implemented. In addition to the project, the education infrastructure in the town of Shumen, concerning an open procedure under the Public Procurement Act with subject matter..Education of construction works, in the realization of the project.Redevelopment, major repair and implementation of energy-efficient measures at the school. Panayot Volov is registered one alert for an irregularity which has been concluded with the establishment of an irregularity and 5% financial correction on eligible costs has been imposed. In addition to my answer, I would like to reassure you and assure you that we have done an inspection, which is the informal inspection of the Operational Programme. It will be carried out on the construction and installation works when a request for reimbursement of the costs of the actual performed MRI is deposited. Yes, through the principal of the school we have received information that there have been defects encountered during the operation have been established. The defects occurring during operation are immediately removed. According to Mrs. Radusheva's opinion, the school director, stated as of July 2019 all the remarks that you have concerns about, have been removed and there is no claim to the construction and construction works carried out, so the school year should start calmly and normally after the renovation at the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u58	Thank you, Minister Avramova. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u59	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I am surprised that no official inspection by the Managing Authority has been carried out to date, all the more so that the problem has been detailed in national media. I don't want to imagine what happens if such a problem is not shown in any media at all. Just to say that a week ago, the school was officially completed. I hope this thing is true, but still such violations, which are shown on national television, are normal to be checked on the spot and not on the phone. I am interested in why and when this official check will be made by the Managing Authority, because to open a clamp, Shumen Municipality, which is a beneficiary, is one of the champions in imposing financial corrections precisely from the Operational Programme. Obviously something is happening there and the violations are regarding the choice of performer. I guess there's a problem here, too. You said there was a 5% financial correction imposed. Is it expected that another financial correction of this project will be required for such an infringement? Can you guarantee from here, from this tribune that you will actually be responsible for such violations that have been committed, at least for discipline, firstly, of contracting entities, then of contractors, especially when it comes to school, where children really need to study in a comfortable environment, such as the purpose of the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for the duplicate and answer to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ivanov, Operational Program "Regions in Growth" has its rules of work. A verification of the real construction works will be carried out when they receive a request for reimbursement of their costs. The operational programme can be accused of anything else, only not of compromises when there are both poorly performed activities and errors made in carrying out the procedures under the Public Procurement Act. Be assured that such an inspection will be carried out upon request for payment for actual construction works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u62	Allow me to thank Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He will answer a question from Mrs. Violeta Jeleva about the problems in receiving the disability pensions during their recalculation period. Here you are, dear Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable MPs! Dear Minister, there is a difference in the regulation on pensions and insurance internship of the National Insurance Institute within the time limit for the determination and payment of retirement and age pensions, inheritance pensions and invalidity pensions. Particularly sensitive to disability pensions is the difference between the time of the re-certification procedure. Unlike those provided for pensions for employment, disabled persons are often without income for the sufficiently long period of re-certification by the Territorial Expert Committee, the entry into force of its decision, the decision of the medical committees of the NSI and the calculation of the size of the pension. At my admissions, very often citizens share their problems about the fact that this period is really quite long and during that time they do not receive any income. Invalid pensions of disabled people are sometimes the only income to experience. The period of the new decision after re-certification very often even deprives people with disabilities from other social rights. Therefore, my question to you is: what are the possibilities for re-certification to apply the approach similar to that of employment pensions and people with disabilities to receive a certain minimum pension amount so that they can survive until the final amount is determined and allocated? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u64	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Minister Petkov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, all pensions for employment, including invalidity pensions, shall be granted and paid in the minimum amount until they are determined in the order of the Social Security Code, when the documents presented prove the right to the type of pension concerned. Where the pension is first granted, the pension officer shall be pronounced within one month after the application has been lodged. After determining the actual amount of the pension, the order by which it was initially granted shall be amended by the issuing authority and, if there is a difference in the amount of the pension, it shall be paid from the date of granting. Persons shall be entitled to an invalidity pension when they have lost their full or partial workability forever or for a long time. Invalidity pensions shall be determined to persons with 50 and over 50 per cent permanently reduced performance, type and degree of disability up to the specified period of disability. The permanent reduced performance, respectively the type and extent of disability, shall be established by an expert decision of the Territorial Expert Medical Commission or the National Expert Committee indicating the date of disability, the period of disability, the causal link between the disease and the working conditions. Where the expert decision defining 50 and over 50 per cent permanently reduced workability is appealed to, pending the entry into force of the decision of the National Expert Committee of the Court of Justice, the person shall be paid an invalidity pension in the amount of the social pension for old age. Thus, the interests of the entitled persons are protected, as there is an expert decision in this case, in which a permanent reduced capacity has been determined.. Over 50 per cent, there is also a fixed period of disability, but it has not entered into force due to a non-compliance with the appeal procedure. That is not the case in cases where the period of invalidity laid down in the expert decision has expired. In such cases, pending a new expert decision, invalidity pensions shall be suspended and shall not be paid. This is because, without a certain percentage of reduced work capacity, not less than 50 per cent, the person is considered to be able to work and is not entitled to an invalidity pension. Only after a new expert decision has been made at the National Insurance Institute can the payment of the suspended disability be resumed if the legal requirements are met. In accordance with art. 30, para. 3 of the Regulation on pensions and insurance internships, the re-certification of persons with permanently reduced performance shall be carried out until the expiry of the period for which the pension is granted after a service call. To this end, the National Insurance Institute shall present in the regional files of the medical expertise a list of persons with invalidity pensions on whom the disability period expires after two months. In order to trigger the re-certification procedure, such persons shall be called for official re-certification by letters indicating the date of appearance to the Territorial Expert Committee, as well as the necessary documents and studies. In the territorial departments of the National Insurance Institute, such an organisation of work has been established that, in re-certification of the persons, action is taken for the immediate and automated processing of the expert decisions received by the Territorial Expert Committee and the decisions of the medical committees. As a result of those actions, the pension officer shall be ordered to make a decision within a maximum time limit. The Pension and Insurance Internship Ordinance explicitly states that when the re-certification is carried out during the expiry date for which the pension is granted, as well as after that, it is not the person's fault, the pension shall be reimbursed in the same amount, increased, reduced or terminated from the period until which it was granted. Only where the person has not appeared to the Territorial Expert Committee for Disrespectful reasons and the re-certification has been carried out after the expiry of the period until which the pension is granted shall be recovered from the date of the certification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u66	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Zheleva, we are waiting for your comment and reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u67	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I had such a similar previous question because the problems are not from yesterday, not from today. It was then that during this witnessing there was a lack of specialists in the TelK committees and the new solution was delayed. In this case, the problem is that, as I have also said in asking the question to you, a large part of people with disabilities remain without any income. This is what you should be focusing on, not on quoting my retirement opportunities and part of the pension regulation procedure! Yes, there is a service call, and as you have stated, the procedure has been initiated immediately by the authorities involved in recalculating pensions. I'm sure you want it to be, but in a lot of cases it's not. This call is slowed down precisely because with the authorities that issue these recalculations, there is a shortage of personnel, there are a very large number of solutions being dealt with, and they are slowing down. Again, there are many cases where citizens complain about it. I don't think they're making this up. Therefore, to the previous question, which I have just mentioned, you have told me that the National Insurance Institute will develop a new method for building an entirely new technological order when placing orders, which will, at a later stage, enable the recalculation of pensions to be granted in less time, respectively, to reduce the period of administrative procedure for the award of pensions from the beginning of 2019. I would like to put in my reply two questions: is this new technological order ready, is it still working on it and is the 2019 deadline reduced? One of the hypotheses and possibilities that I think can be developed is to use the standard of art in re-certification. 10, para. 2 of the Regulation on pensions and social security service in the event of a proven right to an invalidity pension, in any case to grant and pay a certain minimum amount of pension in order to be able to survive until the new amount is fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, as you rightly pointed out, opportunities for shortening the period of re-certification are also available in the medical expertise system. I think their implementation will also be accelerated with the prepared amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the activities of the bodies of medical expertise and of the regional files, which the draft regulations are to be reviewed by the Council of Ministers. Regarding the additional questions you asked me, recalling your previous, what I can say is that the National Insurance Institute is working on improving the pension system. The proof of this is that at the next meeting of the Council of Ministers a Sectoral Strategy will be examined which aims precisely at further improvement and automation of this process, which will also lead to a reduction in the time limits of pension production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u70	Thank you. Allow me to thank Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Before we proceed to the answers of Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture, I would like to announce that there is another written answer from the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov. We continue with a question by the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Chavdar Velinov and Alexander Simov concerning a signal following a journalistic investigation for improper financing of Bulgarian participation in the Venice Biennial, 6 Who's gonna ask the question? Here you go, Mr. Velinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the reason for our question is information that received citizenship through journalistic investigation, for the funds that the Ministry of Culture has allowed itself to spend illegally in Bulgaria's participation in the Venice Biennial from 6 to 9 November 2018 and from 7 to 10 May 2019. Dear Mr. Banov, since the money is 500 thousand. BGN is given by the Bulgarian taxpayers, so we ask: why is this money, which is mine, yours, ours and is given by us, distributed in an opaque way? We plead for transparency and therefore ask: with what does Bulgaria participate in this undeniable prestigious event? What was the purpose and what did the Bulgarian exhibition for Bulgarian culture achieve? How was it reflected on the pages of the world and our media environment? Why did it not become clear to the Bulgarian taxpayer what is the interest in the Bulgarian pavilion and how did we impress visitors and participants in the Biennial? What forced such a large group to travel and participate in the preparation and implementation of this cultural event? Why the support for their participation is totaling 43 thousand. lv.? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. Minister Banov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u73	Dear Chairman, dear Mr. Chenchev, dear Mr. Velinov! The adoption of the status for national participation in the Venice Biennial is one of the measures laid down in the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. It regulates the requirements for national participation and guarantees sustainability in the presentation of Bulgarian artists in the prestigious international forum. With the participation in the Venice Biennial of Art, the Ministry of Culture has set itself the goal of building an up-to-date image of Bulgaria in the field of contemporary visual arts, which allows for wider access and visibility of Bulgarian art and culture, allows us to be more recognizable on the European and world stage. Participation in the Biennial this year stimulates great interest and debate, which emphasize that there is a dynamic scene in our country, interesting projects, freedom of opinion, as well as a serious ambition for development. Bulgarian media have widely reflected our participation in the Venice Biennial. They broadcast materials related to the preparation, discovery and conduct of it. Among them are all national electronic and printed media, as well as a number of international editions in the field of art. They contributed to the country's image and were dedicated to the great return of Bulgaria to the Venice Biennial. Information, photos, videos published in Bulgarian and world media for the Bulgarian pavilion can be read and traced on the specially created website, Facebook page and website in Instagram. The exhibition was opened in the presence of nearly 600 guests, including famous curators, artists, directors of museums of contemporary art, media and so on. Since its opening until the end of August 2019 the Bulgarian national pavilion has been visited by over 17 200 people. The exhibition is marked by visitors and professionals as elegant and speaking in modern international language. According to Decision of 26 November 2018 of the Council of Ministers, the overall organization of the Bulgarian participation in the 58th edition of the Venice Biennial of Art is carried out by the National Gallery. The funds are provided by the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2018 and 2019. According to a contract with the National Gallery the Ministry of Culture provides up to 350 thousand. lv. for activities such as curatorial project implementation, preparation of promotional materials, packaging, transport, insurance, travel, installation, detection, disassembly and so on. In order to study the possibilities of renting an exhibition space in Venice in the autumn of 2018, four experts were posted for a period of four days, which held a meeting with the organizers of the Biennial and carried out an on-site survey of eight spaces. The trip of the specialists, the National Gallery, curators and authors of the project is at the expense of the travel funds set out in the plan-account for the realization of the national participation. Each of them is expected to meet specific commitments to prepare for the opening of the exposure. At the expense of the Ministry of Culture for the official opening of the National Pavilion in the Venice Biennial for Arts three representatives of the Ministry and two representatives of the Bulgarian Cultural Institute in Rome have been posted, which contributes to the promotion of Bulgarian culture and art in Italy. The official missions carried out by the Ministry of Culture shall be carried out in strict compliance with national regulations. It should be noted that services prices are changing directly depending on demand, which has been high for the period of the official opening of the Biennial in Venice due to the huge number of official guests, curators, artists, journalists and tourists from around the world. The company with which the Ministry of Culture works has offered the lowest possible prices and, for this reason, notice, is chosen a place for accommodation in Losre, a remote suburb of Venice, where prices are significantly lower than those in the city. The cheapest single rooms are used and the movement to the Biennial's national pavilion is carried out by public transport. We should all be aware of the need for Bulgaria's participation in the most prestigious world art forum, which should not remain in itself sporadic, but to work for regular performance, which will contribute to the development of the national scene, will have a positive impact on the writing of art history and its performance beyond national borders. Last but not least, the participation stimulates the interest and efforts of artists to create competitive value projects for participation in the next editions of the Biennial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u74	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Mr. Chenchev? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u75	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Let's see what sustainability guarantees the Venice Biennial of Bulgarian culture, as the procedure of parliamentary control is not some minor nagging. We have checked how the issue was in previous editions of the Biennial with the participation of Bulgaria. In 2011 Bulgaria did not pay any lev of taxpayers' money for the participation of the three artists "Gradi Assa," Huben Cherkelov and Pavel Koychev in the Venice Biennial. This participation cost Bulgaria zero leva, as I said. The curator George Lux then chose three between a hundred Bulgarian artists. For one of the following editions of the Biennial by the former Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov was assured a fact, a minimum amount for renting a hall, which again does not come out against the backdrop of those half million leva, which were spent on the Biennial in 2019. But then our artists had disagreements and failed our participation. On this Biennale for the transport of cups are given, at least that is our information, 50 thousand. lv. Again, according to our information, these cups cost BGN 56. Fifty thousand are spent on transport and installation. The cups are a total of 80, carried by an external company, and the National Gallery has its own vehicles.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u76	To the question, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u77	Why is that? Doesn't it appear that the works themselves are cheaper than their installation? There are many more questions on this subject that have already been asked in the public domain. Since taxpayers' money has been spent, and the sum of half a million leva, which came out of the pockets of the Bulgarian taxpayers, is serious, so we insist on specific answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u79	Dear Chairman, dear Mr. Chenchev, dear Mr. Velinov! Notice, Bulgaria participated in Venice Biennial seven times: in 1912, 1942, 1964, 1993, 1999, 2007 and 2011. It's sustainable, not seven years in the last hundred years. The countries in Europe and in the world participate in the Biennial with state support. So the honor and dignity of the Ministry of Culture, of the Bulgarian state, of you, of all of us is that the Bulgarian state finally joined the other countries in the world and enabled this highest forum to show the skills, qualities and daring of its artists. There's no point in answering other questions. It's all uploaded to the Ministry of Culture website. All expenses up to a penny. I'll just stress for everyone who didn't understand me, the three posted for this high event plus the two from Rome who come and work in Italy are sleeping in the Mesre. It's like some tall guests coming to Sofia and sleeping in Elin Pelin to explain. That, if it's over-spending funds for you, that's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Banov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going through with questions to Minister Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question is from the National Representative Manol Genov on fire in illegal waste storage in the server at Struma Motorway. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u81	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! My question is about the waste storage fire that occurred some time ago in the waitout at Struma Motorway. On August 13th of this year, we all know, near the Dupnitsa road hub of the MM Struma, there was a fire that damaged the road facility under which regulated or unregulated? You will say that these polyethylene waste were stored and others. In the fire that broke out, serious damage was done. Minister, I ask you to answer me: have checks been carried out by the relevant Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water at the site? Have prescriptions been made? Are there environmental violations detected, and are penalties imposed? What measures did the Ministry of Environment and Water take and take? What will be your future actions in order to meet the requirements of the Waste Management Act so that such incidents will no longer be allowed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. For an answer Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, Phenix-Dupnitsa Ltd. owns the permit for waste treatment activities issued by the Director of RIEW Pernik, according to the provisions of the Waste Management Act. With the authorisation of both sites, the company may carry out pre-treatment activities for waste and waste collection and storage activities until one of the activities with codes R1 to R12 is carried out. In fact, these are all non-preservation activities. The activities carried out are with: waste of ferrous and non-ferrous metals; obsolete motor vehicles; non-use batteries and accumulators; obsolete electrical and electronic equipment; plastic, paper packaging, composite, i.e. multilayer packaging and other hazardous and non-hazardous waste on site 1, and paper and cardboard packaging; plastic packaging; RDF modified fuels derived from waste, and other wastes including mixtures of materials, from mechanical treatment of waste on site 2. For the period 2018 to August 2019, a total of 5 company checks were carried out by RIEW experts. The following administrative criminal measures have been taken to detect violations of the terms of the permit issued by the Inspection: In March 2018, no reporting was found. A criminal decree of BGN 2000 was issued. The penal order has entered into force. In November 2018, the storage of non-hazardous waste was found to be unauthorised to this location. A criminal decree of 5 thousand has been issued. lv. At present, the criminal order is in court. In May 2019, a planned inspection was carried out which established the storage of waste not authorised for that site. The company was given a prescription for moving and cleaning all waste located outside the company's authorised sites with a period of 31 July 2019. The company requested an extension but had not been authorised and was refused this extension. Two violations have been detected. First, non-compliance with the waste cleaning prescription given in the previous inspection of May and storage of waste not authorised in that place. For these two violations, two acts have been drawn up. The owner refused to receive them. Therefore, under the order of the Law on administrative violations and penalties, the two acts were awarded through the municipality of Dupnitsa, which managed to give them to him on 3 September this year. After the appeal period, penal decrees will be issued. In order to prevent and eliminate harmful effects on the environment due to continued waste storage activity by the competent authorities of RIEW Pernik, an order was issued on 11 September, which imposed a forced administrative measure on the company and prescribed all production, non-hazardous waste which is stored in unauthorised places and places which do not comply with the regulatory requirements, to be removed by 15 October this year and to take action to restore the quality of the environment by 30 October 2019. The delivery of the forced administrative measure was carried out with the assistance of the PSU Dupnitsa, also because of refusal. In accordance with the requirements of the Waste Management Act, the competent authority shall withdraw the authorisation issued where administrative infringements have been committed for a period of three years for which the person has been punished twice with a criminal order entered into force. In this regard, after the completion of the judicial procedure under the judgment on the verification of November 2018, RIEW Pernik will begin the most severe procedure for the withdrawal of the permit of Phenix Dupnitsa. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Under the provisions of the Waste Management Act and the Road Law, landowners are responsible for cleaning waste. In this regard, the RIEW Pernik has issued two regulations: one of the municipality of Dupnitsa by 19 September to remove land waste that is municipal private property; and the district road management by 2 September. From district road management.. Kyustendil, we have information that the prescriptions have been met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u84	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u85	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimov, I very much hope that you have appreciated the sparing way in which I asked the questions to you. However, I hope you do not think that this is of particular respect for authority, because it is not. I expected, as you replied, to reply to me in detail dates, checks, committees. The guilt seems to have shifted to corporate entities. You've talked about the measures taken, but as a practice in the state and in the government, it's always someone else's fault after the incidents. There are always promises with millions poured out that will keep the promises, in this case 1 million. $800,000. lv. From the Road Agency. I didn't expect you to take any more conscious responsibility on this case because he's quite scandalous. The truth is: I think the whole waste management policy that is currently under way is waste. And it is waste packed in a modern packaging of environmental concern and carrying out eurodirectives. The failure was really this time under the highway, but then it fell on the Italian waste that was expelled with extremely serious arguments from Romania. Don't you know the fact from a European journalistic investigation that Italian waste investors boasted that the Bulgarian authorities surprisingly didn't give them any obstacles? Your entire eco-control regime is gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u86	What's the connection to the question you're asking, Mr. Genov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u87	Once someone dumps a ton of junk under a new highway, the business is supposed to use it, what's left in other places?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u88	We're waiting for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u89	Tomorrow, someone's gonna dump ammunition under a precinct and who knows when you'll find out what's gonna happen to them. He'll say they're for utilizing, for example. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And there's one more thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u90	Question I expect, Mr. Genov, time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u91	Just a few seconds, Madam President. It is time for the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, when there are such incidents, to point the blade of its blows to the state institutions, because in this case at least two departments had to answer and be charged with charges and several more... [[The President turns off the microphones. The orator continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u92	Mr. Genov, please, I expect the question from you. In Bulgaria there is a division of authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u93	I know you've approached the D.A.'s office, and I know there's cases going on, and I know there's forced execution, but all of this proves the state's weakness. What kind of suggestions are you going to make? What's supposed to happen? If necessary and legislative proposals, because here I see that there are also questions of colleagues, again related to all these stories of burning, carrying waste, some such phantoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Genov. You guys are running out of time for a whole minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u95	I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u96	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, I hope that you will have patience to stay until the end of the parliamentary control in which I am involved, and you will receive a lot of answers to the questions you have asked, because your colleagues are asking what you have extended from the Struma Motorway. However, I hope that, as a MP in the Bulgarian Parliament, you do not advise me not to comply with the laws, because the procedure under which the regulations are followed with the imposition of regulations and the continuation of the authorisation cannot be arbitrary. The law has very clearly said: within three years, two entered into force. There's one that's in effect, and another that's in court. I suppose you don't want me to make a suggestion that people can't defend themselves in court. So in any case this is a process and it has started, but this process cannot be resolved instantly, although in some cases we may want to. The laws are therefore to protect us from things that can very well be done but are not legal. The fact is that waste treatment is a problem in Europe, it is a problem in the world. This is something that will be decided yet. The fact is that there is a European policy and that Bulgaria strictly follows this European policy, which you will be able to hear about in the next maybe three or four questions that I have to answer. The fact is also that violations are being made, because if there were no violations, perhaps there would be no need for laws. And that is why authorisation withdrawal options are provided when violations are being made and when these infringements are serious, as is the case. That is why I said that I expect the judgment of the court on the second, the first criminal decree has entered into force, and for the second, I hope that soon the Court will come up with a decision. And if the second penal decree comes into force, which I hope deeply, we will pass, as I said, and the most severe procedure. Before that, though, it would mean arbitraryness, and I am reluctant to display one. I prefer to follow the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. Next is a question by the MP Atanas Stoyanov, MP Alexander Siddy and MP Kalin Popovski on the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water on thermal treatment of waste in the country. Here you go, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u99	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I may be building on the question of my colleague Genov on this so-called case, not only for the highway, but where there are unregulated landfills throughout the country. Our questioning of the three IMRO MPs is precisely in this regard on the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water on thermal treatment of waste in the country. Under European waste policies and circular economy, the linear principle of waste management was replaced by a hierarchic one. As a priority, the prevention of waste followed by preparation for reuse, recycling, recovery and finally disposal as the most undesirable option. In this hierarchic arrangement of activities, recovery includes activities such as energy recovery, waste processing and other recovery. Energy recovery by thermal treatment of waste, on the one hand, is a necessary step for achieving the targets for zero or minimum percentage of depopulated waste and, on the other, is a sensitive topic for society. The thermal treatment, or otherwise referred to as burning, leads to matters related to the purity of the air, the conditions under which activity and control are carried out. The Ministry of Environment and Water, such as the principle of waste management policy, together with the Executive Environment Agency and Regional Environmental Inspections, are the state authorities that manage the portfolio, work to breathe clean air and exercise control over waste operators. The national environmental legislation, which is synchronised with European legislation, clearly regulates the terms and conditions for treatment of waste in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in this thermal treatment for energy recovery. Due to the increased signals from citizens and organisations related to doubts about unauthorised storage and incineration of waste, the importation of waste into the country and whether environmental legislation is respected, please inform us of the policy of the Ministry of Environment in relation to: Permits issued under the Environmental Protection Act for carrying out RDF-waste storage and recovery activities (modified fuels derived from waste). Authorisations under the Waste Management Act for carrying out RDF storage and recovery activities. The control of compliance with the requirements laid down in the permits, including for the import of waste, and the results of measurements for harmful substances released into the ambient air. And question four: the procedures under the Environmental Protection Act, i.e. EIA procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer within 5 minutes, as this is a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen Stoyanov, Siddi and Popovski, the policy of the Ministry of Environment and Water in the field of waste incineration, and in particular burning with energy recovery from waste, is fully in line with the legislation and practices of the European Union. The waste fuel in the so-called RDF has variable compositions, therefore variable parameters The requirements are for waste to be non-hazardous, combustible and shredded to certain sizes so as not to create technical problems in installations. The energy recovery of RDF as a process should be seen in a broader environmental and economic context. In the energy recovery of waste there are significant environmental benefits: significantly less waste is deposited; pollution and risks to the environment are prevented. This recovery also has its economic benefits: significant costs for energy raw materials are saved; direct costs related to the disposal of waste, including the payment of fees and charges; costs for subsequent recalculation of landfills. An important environmental benefit in the combustion of fuels from waste is related to the reduction of basic air pollution. The results of periodic laboratory analyses show that RDF's overall greenhouse gas emission factor is close to that of natural gas and much smaller than coal. In other words, the use of RDF as a fuel instead of coal leads to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the This also leads to a significant reduction in the cost of purchasing greenhouse gas emission allowances. At present in Bulgaria, the burning of waste still takes a small share compared to the average levels for the European Union and especially in comparison with other countries. Only four Member States have a lower percentage of waste incineration "Cyprus," Malta, Greece and Croatia. Latvia is relevant to our percentage. The European Union's latest legislation as of 2035 sets ambitious targets for 65% recycling of household waste and limiting its disposal to 10%. It is clearly apparent that at least 25% of the total household waste should be burned. Otherwise, the 10% disposal target is inconceivable to be achieved. On the specific questions you have raised, I can say the following: Since 2005, 8 complex permits have been issued by the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency as a competent authority under the Environmental Protection Act to carry out RDF waste recovery activities to the following companies: - "Devnya Cement" AD; - "Holsim" AD; - Zlatna Panega Cement AD; - TPP "Bobov dol" EAD; - "Vulcan Cement" AD; - Toplofiction-Sliven ЕАД; - Greenburn Ltd, Sofia, site Razgrad; - Greenburn EOOD, Sofia, Peshtera site. Conditions shall be laid down to ensure a high level of environmental protection when granting authorisations for waste activities and to take into account regulatory requirements. For the authorisation of the import of waste into Bulgaria, Regulation (EC) No is strictly observed on the transport of waste. In order to encourage the energy recovery of RDF formed in Bulgaria and to prevent excessive imports, the Waste Management Act introduces a restriction on imports into Bulgaria of waste intended for incineration to quantities not exceeding half the annual capacity of the plant. In our information, Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has introduced this import restriction to stimulate the production and burning of local RDF. About 72 000 tonnes of energy used for cement plants have been imported to Bulgaria for 2017. 85 000 tonnes of waste for energy recovery was imported to Bulgaria in 2018. 97% of them are for cement plants and only 3% for thermal plants. In terms of control. Regional environmental and water inspections shall carry out periodic, annual control of all installations authorised for waste activities. Additional controls in the cross-border transport of waste under Regulation (EC) No - the customs authorities, the authorities of the Directorate-General of Border Police and the Departments of Road Police and the Ministry of Interior Departments; and - Officials of the Executive Agency of the European Union, the Railway Administration Executive Agency, the Maritime Administration Executive Agency. According to the permits granted, the operators of the installations shall carry out their own continuous measurements and their own periodic measurements. Own continuous measurements are for dust, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, ammonia and organic substances defined as total carbon. Control plans and extraordinary measurements shall also be made by the Executive Environment Agency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The answer is very long, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u102	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u103	Thank you. Operators are also obliged to carry out their own periodic measurements for hydrochloric and hydrofluorinated, benzene, dioxins and furans and heavy metals. In accordance with the requirements of the Environmental Protection Act, regional inspections shall carry out planned and non-planned checks of complex permits. About control. In this regard, over 45 checks have been carried out for the last year on these 8 complex permits that have been granted. Violation of the conditions in the complex permits were established during the inspections of the TPP - Bobov dol. For which criminal decrees were issued to the company for a total value of 92 000 BGN and TPP - Sliven In order to achieve the use of unauthorized type of fuel, in violation of the complex permits of the TPP, the TPP and the TPP were stopped accordingly by imposing a forced administrative measure (PAM). The two companies were also subject to sanctions of a total amount of 73 000 BGN. On 11 September 2019 RIEW experts Pernik saw that the prescription given on 9 September to TPP Pernik was implemented. The company removed all biomass/slam waste not authorised under the complex permit and the site remained only authorised under the complex permit fuels, which is why the administrative measure was lifted. In order to carry out activities, the last question for the preservation and recovery of RDF by RIEW directors, as competent authorities, are given: - 10 decisions to assess the need to carry out EIAs which are of a nature not to carry out EIAs; - 9 decisions to terminate procedures, i.e. not allowed; - 5 EIA decisions, 3 of which have been completed. Regional health inspections and local authorities play a key role in these assessment procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u104	Thank you very much, dear Minister. It was interesting to introduce our viewers and MPs to the topic. Mr. Popovski, you are entitled to two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u105	I thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer. We understand that, on the one hand, Bulgarian legislation strictly regulates the order for burning RDF waste; on the other, the use of this type of fuel how it affects the environment. Two sub-questions in addition: What is the European practice and trend in burning waste for energy recovery? And the second is: what part of the waste is burned and what are import practices as approximate quantities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. Minister, three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Popovski, I actually had the opportunity to say that Bulgaria is currently in one of the last places in Europe. Speaking of burning, the first, with energy use, of household waste, has been widely advocated long ago among leading Member States of the European Union, and shows a stable position as a share over the past five years. It can even be said that we have a sustainable growth of 2.5 percentage points over this period. Average for the European Union: 25.5% of waste was burned in 2013 in 2017. The latest information we have from Eurostat, 28.1%. In individual leading countries, growth is significantly higher. The most significant increase was in Finland from 42% to 59% in 2017, and in the UK from 21% in 2013 to 38% in 2017. In 2017, there are already seven Member States that achieve very low levels of landfilling of their waste All these seven countries have a significant share of combustion using domestic waste energy from 39% in Austria to 59% in Finland. According to Eurostat, Bulgaria is in one of the last places with only 3.34%. It is very important and indicative that, in all countries with leading results, both in waste management, in the protection of air cleanliness and climate change prevention policy, at least one third of household waste is burned with energy use. In countries such as Finland, Denmark, Sweden, the share of energy recovery for 2017 is more than half the amount of treated waste. At the same time, these are countries leading in other practices and examples of green policies and strategic planning for transition to a circular economy. About the imports. In the case of Member States, imports ranged from 10 to 110 thousand tonnes under the Basel Convention. In a comparative plan Denmark generates about one third more domestic waste from Bulgaria, with more than half of it being burned and additional quantities imported, almost comparable to those imported from Bulgaria. Latvia is comparable to imports with Bulgaria and Portugal imports significantly larger quantities than Bulgaria, which exceed 100,000 tonnes per year. Last but not least, it is curious that in Stockholm and Copenhagen the capitals of Sweden and Denmark are built thermal power plants that use RDF energy raw materials. Both cities were European green capitals as early as 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u108	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Popovski for attitude, you won't be using it. We are moving on to the issue from the National Representative Desislav Chukolov about the introduction of waste from abroad, their processing in Bulgaria and the pollution of the environment in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, we have found that MPs are interested in this issue, which is located in the dumps of Bulgaria. But as we well know, this really pressing problem is a huge business, a billion-dollar business. You know perfectly well that this is the problem that organized crime is dealing with. You don't have to watch movies, you don't have to see the general culture very wide. I'd tell you about Roberto Saviano's book, where it's very clearly written and it describes how the mafia in Kabul, in Sicily, how the trash is released, and that actually, I repeat, is a billion-dollar business. We understand from Bulgarian media that refer to the Italian media not to Bulgarian mayors, not to the Bulgarian minister, we understand from them that in Bulgaria quantities of trash are imported from Italy, I repeat, from these areas from Sicily, from Campanella, the districts around Naples. They're coming in here. The mayors of settlements in Bulgaria in Burgas, around Varna, say: "Well, we have no information, we do not know yet. The Regional Health Service explains "We will check, find out what we are talking about and inform citizens. I haven't heard any information about this matter yet. My question to you is: what control is exercised over what is coming from abroad to Bulgaria to be processed here? Yeah, documents can look like household waste. The road that is described in one of the Italian newspapers is from Giuliano, then in Serino, then in Naples, repackaging in ecoballs and so on. Information from reliable international editions is being provided saying that laboratory research is being falsified in Italy........................ which is being sent to Bulgaria, that there are such cases. My question to you is: how do you control what garbage comes in here, how is it burned in the respective thermal plants and how is it ensured that Bulgarian citizens will not suffer from it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Chukolov, the right to free movement of goods originating in the Member States and goods from third countries which are in free circulation in the Member States is one of the fundamental principles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The adoption of harmonised legislation makes it possible to remove obstacles, as well as to establish common rules aimed at ensuring both the free movement of goods and products and compliance with the other objectives of the Treaty, such as environmental protection, consumer protection or competition. Subject to the requirements of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 on the transport of waste, the movement of waste within the European Union, from and to third countries is governed by economic growth and globalisation, by the gradual development of a vital internal market for the recovery and recycling of waste at European Union level, and by the need to create an integrated and appropriate network of installations for the treatment of specific waste streams. I note that the regulation lays down rules for both imports and exports of waste. In 2018, allowed quantities of waste for export from Bulgaria are 823 781 tonnes and imported waste for energy recovery is 85 000 tonnes. In many cases, the import/export of waste is dictated precisely by the lack of a built-up infrastructure for treatment of a specific waste stream in the country of dispatch, such as pesticides and mercury waste, for which Bulgaria does not have treatment facilities. As in a number of other Member States of the European Union, the transport of waste intended for combustion with energy use and in Bulgaria is established a model for the provision of raw materials for installations in the country that possess complex permits and meet the requirements of Regulation No 4. The import and export of waste in and from Bulgaria is subject to the principles laid down in the National Waste Management Plan 2014 - 2020 and in the Waste Management Act. For the authorisation of the import of waste into Bulgaria, Regulation (EC) No is also strictly observed on the transport of waste. In order to encourage the energy recovery of RDF formed in Bulgaria and to prevent excessive imports, the Waste Management Act introduces a restriction on imports into Bulgaria of waste intended for incineration to quantities not exceeding half the annual capacity of the plant. In our information, Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has introduced this import restriction to stimulate the production and burning of local RDF. In the framework of the notification authorisation, the Ministry of Environment and Water shall strictly ensure that the imported waste does not exceed 50% of the capacity of the installations. In a report on the functioning of waste markets in the European Union, drawn up for the European Commission on the basis of a thorough investigation and consultations with stakeholders, Bulgaria is listed as a good example of a country which has notified its national restriction on the import of waste intended for disposal under the Basel Convention. Waste intended to be recovered in the country originating in imports may only be treated in facilities holding a document for carrying out waste activities. When talking about the authorisation, a mandatory environmental impact assessment procedure shall be subject to: plants for the disposal of hazardous waste by incineration, chemical treatment or disposal within the meaning of the Waste Management and Installations Act with a capacity exceeding 100 tonnes per day for the disposal of non-hazardous waste by incineration or chemical treatment within the meaning of the IPO. Installations and landfills for disposal and/or recovery of waste shall be subject to an assessment procedure for the need to carry out the EIA. The competent authority shall assess the need to carry out an EIA. Regarding your question about the health of the Bulgarian population, the competent authority is the Ministry of Health and in particular Regional Health Inspections. Whenever the health inspection has expressed an opinion on the need for EIA to carry out, the RIEW shall take into account the decision of the RGI. Investment intentions must also be coordinated with local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u112	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Chukolov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u113	Let's explain in a more popular language what this is really about. There are municipalities abroad that have a huge problem with where to store their waste, where to take their waste, only not to pollute their environment. They pay to be exported to Bulgaria. In Bulgaria they are burned in thermal plants, in other facilities that receive money for burning them. Burning this waste, the thermal plants themselves get money for burning it. That, again, is a billion billion-dollar operation. Mr. Minister, you're talking to me about importing tens of thousands of tons. I think you mentioned 86,000. the tone. According to information on the site, the company "Trash Univers" with which they import such waste is authorised by the RIEW Stara Zagora to burn 1.6 million. tonnes in Bulgaria. Yes, you say that more than half of it is being controlled not to burn, but still this information also shows that the scale at TPP is the property of the company. Would she deprive herself of such enormous funds that fit into her budget? The answer is clear to everyone and it is worth checking out. Another question is whether these places where waste is burned have also been checked, are they suitable for this type of waste, are they suitable for this type of waste? I don't know. Is it checked? If it's checked, please answer me. And again, the problem is that local authorities never know what's going on. We see it all the time on the TV screens, confused mayors who say, "Well, I don't even know where the pollution comes from, let alone what burns in the respective furnace, which is so close to the settlement. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you a very specific question. I will do my best to check the information in Italy in these areas what is being exported to Bulgaria, then I will ask you a written question to verify what is entering Bulgaria? If there is a discrepancy in this data, are you ready to resign because I have doubts, and it is justified, which I will not now specifically share to you that this data does not match at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u115	Regarding local authorities, any investment intention, as I said in my reply, is agreed, that is, the local authorities have not only been referred to, but are waiting for an opinion from them. There are not one and two cases where, thanks to the opinion of the local authorities, the procedures have been terminated. When we talk about whether the most modern techniques are used, since 2017, there has been a mandatory, I stress, a mandatory list of the best available techniques in the European Union when we are talking about TPPs. And again, when I said about thermal plants, I myself told you: in Bulgaria 3,34% are burned according to Eurostat and those, if we accept them as 100, only 3% in TPP. So this is zero and I don't know how many zeros and nine, so the rate of burning in Bulgaria is extremely low. Only four countries, as I said just now, are burning less. From the point of view of illegal imports, you have actually mentioned several things related to mafia, illegal imports, forgery of codes. That's out of the question. You've got the wrong minister who has to keep tabs on this if there's a code forgery. By the way, in one of the questions that is about the Maritsa East 3, I will give such information. I think he's next. It's a crime, so in these cases the prosecution intervenes. It wasn't a coincidence that the D.A. was the one who ordered checks. As a result, the surprising actions of the Ministry of Environment and Water and of all services of the Ministry of Interior were carried out, thus establishing illegal possession of straw at the TPP of Pernik, which was stopped, and at the TPP of Brikel, which was also sealed and stopped by a forced administrative measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. Question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov on the waste disposal site near the TPP Maritsa 3 Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I know that you are very familiar with the problem that has been created around the waste on the site near TPP Maritsa 3 On 14 August 2019 at the site of the TPP site, Maritsa 3s citizens noticed accumulated waste, and this, of course, suggests concern that they can be burned at our local plant. There were also concerns in the population that this is likely to have a huge impact on the health of the population in the area. On 19 August 2019 an inspection was carried out based on the signals received by the RIEW Haskovo. Not that we didn't try to get answers, but what were the answers? There are no specific answers to the origin of the waste. There is only a prescription for them to be removed, which comes to say that perhaps to save the answers to our questions, the easiest way is for them to be removed. No one has given answers yet whether this waste is toxic, what its composition is, is it dangerous to people's health, which is most important, and not just the prescription to be removed. It is legitimately the concern of the citizens, as well as mine, because it created the feeling that the institutions are slowing down the samples and analysis of the composition of the waste, and also deliberately denying the specific answers. Therefore, from this tribune I want you to state clearly and answer to me and the citizens what is the origin and composition of the waste on the site for storage of such waste next to the TPP Maritsa 3 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u119	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Zheleva and Mrs. Dinkov! On August 19th, as you yourself said, a check was carried out in connection with a signal received by RIEW During the verification it was found that a separate metal fence and a separate entrance site according to the presented lease contract between TPP Maritsa 3s and company Trash Eco Paksuk Ltd. are stored 652 tonnes of waste. The company "Trash Eko Pak" Ltd. holds a registration document issued by the Director of RIEW Haskovo, according to art. 78 of the Waste Management Act. According to the document issued at the company site, it is authorised to carry out activities with code R12, which means pre-pre-pre-use, and R13, which means collecting and storing until some of the operations are carried out R1 R12, i.e. all waste activities with the exception of disposal, 31 European waste list codes, including paper, cardboard, plastics, textiles and other combustible waste materials; plastic and rubber with code 19 12 04 and flammable waste (RDF, modified fuels derived from waste) with code 19 12 10. I would like to point out here that waste with a code 19 12 04 is on the European Union's green list of waste. Green waste transport shall not be subject to prior written notification and consent procedure. They are subject to the general information requirements under art. 18 of Regulation (EC) No are accompanied by a completed document referred to in Annex 7 to the Regulation and a written recovery contract concluded between the person exercising the transport and the recipient of the waste. During the verification by the company, documents were submitted with a contract of 22 July 2019 and an annex to it from 1 August 2019 and a reception and transmission protocol according to which the waste available on the site was coded 19 12 04 plastic and rubber, and received from the company Trash Heivers. In view of the experts of the available waste on the site, it was found that the waste is not uniform between plastic materials and waste from paper, cardboard, textiles, wood materials and others. In this regard, the RIEW "Haskovo" takes the following. On 20 August 2019, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 20 August 2019 to 20 August 2019. The day after the inspection, in order to establish the origin of the waste delivered to the site of Trash Eco Paks Ltd. are sent letters to RIEW Stara Zagora, and RIEW Burgas, for carrying out checks according to their territorial competence of "Trash Univers" Ltd. and to the Bulgarian Sea Fleet Port Burgas respectively. A procedure has been initiated to investigate the composition of waste by assigning an internationally accredited laboratory to take samples for the purpose of characterising waste and determining composition and code. On 11 September 2019 RIEW Director Haskovo made an inquiry to an internationally accredited verification, verification, testing and certification company. It is given a prescription to the manager of Trash Eko Paksuk Ltd., as you said, to export the waste by 15 September 2019. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the TPP of Maritsa 3 is in possession of a comprehensive license from 2016, according to which the company is not allowed to use RDF modified fuels, i.e. it is not allowed to use such fuels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Jeleva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u121	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, an expected response. What happens in parliamentary control or during parliamentary control, which is extremely important because current questions are being asked about the regions? The ministers come up with one extensive information and the answer almost covers only one statistic or some more general information without making specific commitments and specific answers. I have what you quoted. I have all the waste codes and the company's permit because I said I was trying to get information about the problem, but I also have the company's temporary storage permit. I want to read to you because perhaps you are not aware of what the company needs to perform in order to be able to carry out this activity to store the waste. There are many requirements. Here, in a few pages, but I'll only read some: The payload must meet the following requirements: have a waterproof coating; be marked with a star treated with waste, code and name according to the Ordinance under art. 3; there shall also be an entrance and exit with a checkpoint, square plumbing networks and a fence with pointers and many others. I don't have time for this. I won't go on to the end. I was on the right playground. This is levels at which there are no requirements for the storage of these waste. And here is my question: I want you to state specifically to the citizens that these wastes are not dangerous to people. My second question, which is also very important: how are permissions issued to companies when the authorities themselves need to monitor, the relevant local eco-inspection sees that there are no built facilities to be stored there? I can answer you: these permits are perhaps given with closed eyes, as are the checks, because there was a check and a prescription was issued to move the relevant waste, but not sanctions to the company. There were no sanctions for this! What is created after that? There is a feeling that institutions are protecting certain economic interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, I said for a reason that I also ordered the Director of RIEW Haskovo, wants an internationally accredited service to assess what the waste is. First, if the waste does not correspond to a code which ends with 04, it must be returned to Italy, the country of origin. To this end, this must be proved, so we are looking for an international institution that can do so in order to have the necessary power to do so. If this is with this code, you end up at 04, we have absolutely no reason to fine the company that has the right to do this. As I said earlier, there are things that we may or may not like, but there is a law that must be respected. At the moment, the waste code has been declared and the declaration, as you know, is a document and it has passed through the countries concerned that waste with this code is finally on the green list, i.e. it is subject to free passage and is not subject to notification by the State, so we want international expertise from an accredited international laboratory. If it turns out that this waste does not correspond to this code, finally by 04, we should take appropriate action, including negotiations for its removal, but if it does, we have no reason to sanction the company. About the site, the information I started with. They said the playground was surrounded. The square is in a place where such activities are permitted. What you are telling me, however, gives me reason to do another type of inspection that will not go to RIEW Haskovo. I, by the way, have done several checks in recent times, where I cross the area inspections, just to avoid local ties if they exist, but I will reserve the right to do this inspection at a time when I have not announced it, you understand for what reasons, and then I will have to take care to inform you personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to the last question to the Minister of Environment and Water, a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov on measures to improve the quality of the air in Pernik. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is: what measures will the Ministry of Environment and Water take to improve the atmospheric air in the town of Pernik? Since the beginning of 2019 there have been several increases in fine dust particles in the air of the town of Pernik. For several months in different areas of the city almost every night there is a suffocating smell that disturbs the Perniks. Despite the hundreds of complaints, local institutions are not taking any measures to stop this. This constant air pollution predisposes a number of respiratory diseases and aggravation of the symptoms of others in the inhabitants of the city and the municipality. Therefore, measures need to be taken to improve air quality so that our children do not breathe this mixture of dangerous substances. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures will you take to improve the air quality in Pernik? Will there be a penalty for Perniks continuing to breathe dirty air?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, the legislation on the protection of air cleanliness defines specific pollutants that need to be controlled and control standards for them to be respected. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Water to conduct the state policy on atmospheric air quality management and to control large industrial sources of emissions. At local level, the main obligation to maintain air quality, according to legislation, has local authorities. For control of air quality in the town of Pernik there are two monitoring points, which are part of the National Air Quality Control System. According to the results of the monitoring from the beginning of the year, the standards of controlled substances are not exceeded. According to the indicator, fine particulate matter and particulate matter from the beginning of 2019, 20 units of excesses of the average day-to-night fine particulate values have been reported at an annual rate of 35 pieces. The data from an automatic measuring station is publicly available in the Public Information System on real-time air quality on the website of the Executive Environment Agency. At the same time, numerous smell signals were received in the area of the town of Pernik in 2019. In this regard, checks have been carried out by the control body RIEW "Pernik" for the purpose of establishing the sources of smells. With the exception of an alert received in July for which the source of odors is not identified, the other signals received are related to the activity of the TPP. In this respect, the following actions have been taken by the control authority: first, on 17 April 2019 a forced administrative measure of steam generator No 4 has been imposed by sealing and sealing until the final and qualitative completion of all necessary repair activities of the boiler and service elements of the facility. On 23 July 2019 the RIEW Pernik was notified of completed repairs and after examination the seals were removed. On 15 May 2019 a forced administrative measure has been imposed by "Heat Energy" Ltd. "stopping the operation of a solid fuel storage plant located on the territory of the TPP." In 2019, sanctions were imposed on Pernik. In 2019 a criminal decree of BGN 35 000, unfortunately reduced by the District Court of Pernik, to BGN 10 000, and confirmed by the Administrative Court of Pernik; Criminal Decree of 05.07.2019, which imposed two capital penalties for 30 thousand. lv. And 20,000. BGN, i.e. a total of 50 thousand. lv. On 4 September 2019 when checking the TPP, the use of the unauthorized fuel type of the biomass is considered in violation of the permit issued. By the Director of RIEW Pernik, an order was issued for the imposition of a forced administrative measure to stop the operation of steam generators 4 and 5. It is mandatory to remove all fuels not authorised under the conditions of the complex permit until 13 September 2019. On 11 September 2019, an on-the-spot check was carried out and it was found that the company had fulfilled the given requirement. In this context, the Director of the RIEW has issued an order to suspend the forced administrative measure and the steam generators were dissolved on 12 September 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u128	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the problem of air quality in Pernik and the institutions under your control is that somehow they are going after the events. You said yes, there were sanctions. I was under the impression that the only polluter in the municipality of Pernik is Toplofication, but this always happens after civil protests, reactions and journalistic investigations. It's never preventative. And here is already the huge problem, because this creates a lack of confidence from society to the institutions that they can and have the power to deal with business units that violate the laws in Bulgaria. I told you yes, you've established the Toplofication of Pernik, but I'm sure other businesses allow themselves, seeing the powerlessness of the state. We're in a situation of frustration. I told you a reaction from the local RIEW always happens when there are some protests or journalistic investigators. Because I have asked you a number of questions about air quality in Pernik and, unfortunately, the answers you give me do not give me hope that the local structure of the RIEW can deal with this huge problem that is facing the Pernicans. And for the station you're quoting to me, this station was at one of the busiest intersections in Pernik and your structure moved it almost to the city park. Excuse me, but in the city park, it's normal to show them to be far better than if they're in the industrial zone. And that is why my specific question to you: do you have the strength to punish the leadership of the local RIEW, because it is evident that the huge problem of air quality control, of water next question, next week will be, and for what we have witnessed about the dam, the Struma River, which is another day and today flows in different colors, the problem is the control body? My specific question to you: Do you have the strength to punish the local structure of the RIEW so that we do not fall into these situations and go always after the events? Just one note, Madame Chairman. Mr. Minister, you marked for the problem that we all saw at the Toplofication Pernik. You can see that almost everyone here can afford to break the principle if I get caught. The director of the TPP said that nearly a year they were burning their garbage or biomasses, as he called it, that nearly a year they stored on their site biomass or junk. Well, I'm sorry, but where has the control been all this time? That's my question to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, in two parts is my answer. The first part is the severest penalty that can actually be imposed, this is a suspension from work. We have a stop of the steam generator No 4 on April 17.. Sealed, sealed. We have a stop with a forceful administrative measure of the "Heet Energy" Ltd., we also have a stop of the entire thermal power plant with steam generators 4 and 5, which was literally a week ago. I would not say that the Regional Inspection is not working, but what I ordered on 27 August 2019 may be confusing the date, but it was at the end of August, it is not just related to the TPP, it is related to one inspection of all structures within the Ministry of Environment and Water. Today is the deadline of the inspection. I guess next week or another week I'll have the relevant results, based on which I can give a more specific answer to the other, to the main part of your additional question. You'll get this additional answer. Just your question today coincided with the deadline of the inspection. I don't want to get ahead of myself before she gives her results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u132	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Dimov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to Ivan Chenchev and Georgi Gokov's question about the stadium of the Bulgarian army. It is to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, from this tribune often a respected Bulgarian politician says in many of his speeches that his blue soul, his blue heart, is also excited about the fate of the Bulgarian sport. My red soul and my army heart have been excited for 30 years of transition in the Republic of Bulgaria for the fate of the facilities in Bulgaria and, of course, at the stadium of one of the flagships in the Bulgarian sport, the pride of the Bulgarian sport. We know about the long-standing problems, but it is important that now that it is a huge problem to resolve CSKA to have a stadium which the club and millions of its supporters want is that there is finally a desire from the relevant institutions and from you, Mr. Minister, which is commendable, the problem to be solved and the Bulgarian supporters of CSKA, and also of "Levski" because we know that there the stadium is not finished, there is no visor, to receive such attitude from the institutions in Bulgaria, which these clubs deserve, and not only those! Agree that we have witnessed all sorts of things in recent years, including help to other clubs, for which neither of us is against any Bulgarian club, but we still remember how some helicopters flew, how six ministers were at the opening of a tribune. We are now witnessing another project, for which the state again, through the mouth of the Bulgarian Prime Minister, promised help. Here we ask you, and especially you, to engage as well, as we are aware of your positive attitude, with specific deadlines: how do you see CSKA stadium being brought into the form the club wants? In my supplementary line, we'll finish the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. For a response the Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Krasen Kralev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u135	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Chenchev, Dear Mr. Gokov! The Bulgarian Army is an important sports site which, as you point out in your question, needs serious investment in order to achieve European image and reach standards that meet the requirements of UEFA, especially that the stadium is used by a football club such as CSKA, which is one of the leading football clubs in our country with ambitions for the international stage and with numerous supporters who deserve to watch their favorite team of modern sports facilities. The Ministry of Youth and Sport has always sought to find the best way to operate the sports facility, taking into account the Bulgarian legislation. In the period prior to 2017, the stadium "Bulgarian Army" was provided for use by the Ministry of PFC CSKA AD for a long period, but this legal form of management does not guarantee the interests of the football club for carrying out a serious investment policy. At the end of 2017, the property was imported into the capital of the commercial company "Serdika Sports Property" with sole owner of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in order to seek more flexible solutions for its use. "Serdika Sports Estates" held a tender for rent at the stadium "Bulgarian Army" at the Sports and Training Complex "Pancharevo" in which conditions were laid for the investment and renovation of the complex. Conducting investment policy was a general condition for winning the competition. In the course of the procedure he was chosen as tenant of PFC CSKA Sofia EAD. Despite the existing situation, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has not stopped looking for working solutions to improve the condition of the facility in the long term. Building a stable cooperation with PFC CSKA Sofia EAD is a process that does not depend only on the aspirations of the sports office, but is a procedure involving the interests of a state, municipality, private investor and this part of the Bulgarian public that sympathizes with the red team. The actual situation at the moment is as follows. In the Ministry of Youth and Sports on August 28th was received a proposal from PFC CSKA "Sofia EAD," to establish a joint trading company, which will participate in the football club together with the subsidiary commercial company with state participation, owner of the property. "Serdika Sports Estates" (Serdika Sports Property) and the football club to provide their equivalent in a cash contribution. A meeting was held with the chief architect of Sofia Zdravko Zdravkov, during which on 9 September, Monday, This is the first time I have reported it from the parliamentary tribune: this morning the management of the "Serdika Sports Estates" EAD informed me that the chief architect of Sofia Municipality has already issued a visa for investment design of major renovation and reconstruction of the stadium. This is the first important step towards the establishment of a joint company and respectively the conclusion of long-term cooperation between the state and CSKA Sofia. The specific deadlines for the implementation of this cooperation also depend on the investor in the face of the football club. First, it is necessary to draw up a detailed investment project and a plan in which volume the renovation and reconstruction of the site can be carried out. The investor can now start preparing this project after obtaining a visa. Consequently, clear and indisputable guarantees must be provided by the investor that it can provide the necessary investment to carry out the project. Long-term cooperation must also be based on a clear procedure based on the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the State in commercial companies with State participation in capital. On behalf of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, I can assure both you and the club's fans that we are actively working with all the institutions, with the PFC CSKA, Sofia EAD, to achieve this cooperation. Together with the football club, we have started working on the establishment of a joint company. In his previous actions, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has proved that he is pursuing a consistent policy in relation to the stadium. As you can see, within just two weeks of the submission of a letter of investment intentions by PFC CSKA, Sofia EAD, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has initiated the procedure for issuing a visa and can now proceed to design. I guarantee you that the state in the face of the Ministry of Youth and Sports has an interest in having sports lovers in Bulgaria enjoy modern, new stadiums and halls. I believe that we will achieve this for the stadium "Bulgarian Army" and the Bulgarian fans will enjoy all the amenities of a European stadium as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. I deliberately didn't interrupt you so you could finish your exhibition. The news you reported was good. I hope Mr. Chenchev is pleased. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u137	Madam President, I cannot be dissatisfied, but I hope not only this news, but there will be many others like it. And not just this step, but we all walk all the steps together to have the kind of stadiums we want. Of course, I say again, the flagman of the Bulgarian sport, the pride of the Bulgarian sport to have a facility to host, I hope, in the next great European matches. To tell you the truth, after the reconstruction of this stadium, which can also be called the soft of Bulgarian football, I am aware that the cup, now the sitting glass of the stadium, will not be broken and in a reconstruction everything will be within this cup, so all the concerns of various organizations in my opinion are absolutely unfounded. BSP supports the Bulgarian sport, so such news would only please us. Of course, here, from the parliamentary tribune, and before the Bulgarian citizens, and to the supporters of CSKA, and not only to all clubs in Bulgaria, of sport as a whole, we say that we do nothing more than insist on having the necessary facilities for quality Bulgarian sport, but also nothing less. We will not stop insisting on these things happening, especially when it comes to State aid, by state institutions, which has been provided to other clubs and to some projects. CSKA is not a project. And let everyone know that. Ever since I was a child, I dreamed of Boris' garden having a facility that would give all Bulgarians pride. I'm sure one day this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-13.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You won't. We should thank Mr. Krasen Kralev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Colleagues, thank you, too. I'm adjourned today's session. The next regular plenary session will take place on 18 September at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
