ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will present to you the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 19 June 2019: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organisation of master pharmacists. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 12 July 2018. 3. Draft decision for privatization of a part of the property of the Port of Vidin. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. That's point one for Thursday. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. That's point two for Thursday. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Point one for Friday. Please vote on the proposed National Assembly Work Programme. Cancel the vote. Colleagues, I missed: "7." Parliamentary control. [[Radio.]] With point seven, please, vote mode. They voted 147 MPs: 111, against 8, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to the so adopted weekly Programme, in which item 1 for Friday is precisely the second vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, I am making the following proposal for the following reasons. This is about democracy, pluralism, European values and the development of the political system in Bulgaria, or more precisely the backdrop of the political system in Bulgaria. This is about financing political parties, their future dependence on non-political values and interests from private parties. A number of NGOs and experts have expressed a desire to debate on this subject so that a proposal can be made between first and second readings. That is why our proposal is to extend the period between first and second readings by another week. I hope you will accept this proposal, because this is really about a deep, fundamental problem. This is a difficult topic, a topic that should be discussed by both society and experts and NGOs. A topic that will be discussed and discussed by your and our European partners. So let us extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings by another week. And respectfully, if you accept this proposal from us, item 6 should be removed from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u3	You made two suggestions, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u4	If the first one is accepted, the second one is off.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u5	Is there a reverse opinion? I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Philip Popov. They voted 163 MPs: for 72, against 59, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u6	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We understand that you do not want to lead this debate, but do not deprive the Bulgarian citizens and society of the possibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u7	Mr. Popov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u8	That's why I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u9	Thank you. Mr. Popov, your arguments for revoting are not contained in the Rules of Revoting. If you don't have an argument, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u10	There are non-votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u11	Who didn't vote? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now that is an argument according to the Rules. [[Radio.]] Please, voting mode. Vote 167 MPs: 79, against 78, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing with billings and draft decisions for the period from 12 to 18 June 2019: A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importers supplied by the national representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the leading one, it is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The representatives of the People's Representative Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Policies of Bulgarians abroad, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children. Importers supplied by the national representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers supplied by the national representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead, it is also allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. Importer.. People's representative Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Measurement Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation on Social Security of 27 February 2019, signed on 4 March 2019 in Sofia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism at the UN to hold the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and their historical routes. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Planting and Planting Material. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the dispatch and use of a helicopter with crew soldiers from the Air Force to transport a delegation from the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, led by the Chief of Defence to participate in the International Teaching of the Republic of Northern Macedonia on 17 June 2019. The provisions of the Law have been notified to the competent state authorities in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The notification was received on 14 June 2019 and was submitted to the Defence Commission. We continue with the first point of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE MAGSTER-FARMACES. Dear Mrs. Daritkova, you have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Dr. Boyko Penkov to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u13	We are voting admission to Deputy Minister Penkov's room. Vote 134 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask Dr. Penkov to be invited to the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u14	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the word organisation of master pharmacists, No 902-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019. At its regular meeting on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists, No 902-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Dr. Boyko Penkov, who informed the MPs that the proposed amendment and supplement of the Law on the word organization of the master pharmacists aims to improve and ensure the full performance of the functions of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union (BFS). He pointed out that the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists for more than 10 years has not undergone any changes in the regulation of the activity of the word organization, and during that period procedural and organizational problems have been identified, which need a new framework or to fill existing legal gaps. The Law aims to improve the formation of the composition of the senior collective body of management. The Congress of BFS, by clarifying the quota of representation according to the increased number of members of BFS. It is proposed that the members of the central government who are eligible to vote and who are elected in accordance with the relevant order of the Regional Pharmaceutical College (BPCC) of BFS as representatives are to participate in the work of the Congress. The provisions determining the quorum for holding a congress shall be revised, with the minimum number of delegates with a view to the principle of representativeness half of the total number of all members of BFS according to the list of members of the national electronic register. It is envisaged that in the absence of at least half elected representatives of regional colleges will be allowed to hold general meetings for the election of representatives of the Russian Federation, with the congress postponed by three months. Those amendments will ensure predictability and guarantees for regular and extraordinary meetings of the senior national body of management of the word organisation. Insuring the work of the convention will create the necessary prerequisites for the convention to be convened and to make decisions on more meaningful matters. Dr. Penkov explained that on the basis of the experience gained in recent years, amendments are proposed to ensure the proper holding of meetings at the general meetings of the regional pharmaceutical colleges of BFS by introducing specific rules for the quorum, respectively the holding of the meeting at the initial absence of a quorum with a delay of one hour and rules for authorising the representation of members of the college in the General Assembly. In this way legitimacy will be achieved and regular working conditions will be established for the senior collective bodies of the management of the FSF, which in historical terms face significant difficulties and are often unable to hold meetings due to lack of quorum. The representativeness of the decisions of the General Assembly shall be protected by rules for a minimum number of members present at the General Assembly. The proposed changes also clarify the relations between the central authorities of BFS and the authorities of the regional pharmaceutical colleges of BFS in full preservation of the independent legal personality of the RFK of BFS. The mandatory nature of the decisions of the bodies at central level for the organisation and the function of the Control Commission of BFS shall be ensured that they are respected. In the event of a breach, the BFS Control Commission shall address the control committee of the relevant regional pharmaceutical college with an obligation for the latter, in case of detected infringements, to convene a general meeting of the college, which shall maintain the principle of decentralisation of the word organisation. In conclusion, Dr. Penkov pointed out that the expected results of the adoption of the Law are organizational strengthening and improvement of the activities of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union bodies in order to effectively implement the functions of the word organization provided for in the Law in full preservation of all principles adopted by the Law. Prof. Ilko Getov briefed the Members of the National Assembly on the opinion of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, which points out that the bill will improve the legal framework regarding the activities and functioning of the governing bodies of the word organization in line with the changes in the objective public relations in the functioning of BFS over the years. He stressed that the effective exercise of the powers of the word organization and the active protection of the rights and interests of the master pharmacists cannot be carried out without due and legally guaranteed representation of the members in the bodies of management and engagement with the activities of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. Professor Getov pointed out that the existence and activity of the word organizations is a sign of developed civil society and guarantees respect for the rights and interests of both patients and master pharmacists who exercise the profession in accordance with the regulatory requirements. The opinion of the Initiative Committee of Master Pharmaceuticals, members of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, was presented by Mrs. Adelina Lyubenova. She expressed concern about the proposed legislative changes, as they are rather desirable in nature, are not backed up with serious guarantees for their real implementation, do not contain the specifics on the new rules and procedures for holding meetings of management bodies, as well as on the consequences of non-compliance with the requirements introduced by the Bill. Ms. Lubenova pointed out that reducing the quorum for holding meetings and increasing the number of members of the organisation represented by one delegate will in no way ensure greater legitimacy and transparency in holding congress, general meeting and regional pharmaceutical colleges. At the same time, the positive conclusions of the adoption of the changes set out in the partial preliminary assessment of the impact sound unrealistic as there are no clear rules and sanctions governing the conduct of the meetings. In conclusion, Mrs. Lyubenova stressed that at a time of preparation of elections for the management bodies of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union, it is extremely important to make careful and thorough analysis of the reasons and reasons for introducing and adopting regulatory changes with a view to achieving fair and positive results. The written opinions of twelve regional pharmaceutical colleges state that the proposed amendments and additions do not reflect the opinion of the consensus and would not contribute to the improvement of the organization and activities of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. Also, due to some ambiguities in the proposed texts of the provisions, prerequisites will be created for further problems to arise instead of solving existing ones. In this regard, it is concerned that the adoption of regulatory changes, immediately prior to the election of bodies of management of BFS, would create prerequisites for organizational chaos. The opinions also contain specific proposals to refine the various texts of the provisions of the Bill. The Association of pharmacies owners considers that the legislative changes at issue are publicly unacceptable, do not meet the requirements of modern public relations in this area and significantly alter the philosophy of the law in force, and some of the provisions proposed will create prerequisites for unlawful or immoral acts. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health stressed that the reasons for the proposed bill do not make it clear what the adoption of such significant changes in urgent order requires, and three months before the meeting of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union was held. They clarified that on the basis of the opinions presented, it is necessary to conclude that these changes create serious tension and division among the members of the word organization. According to them, the regulatory changes at issue are unreasonable, unreasonable and untimely, and should not be imposed without universal agreement on their philosophy on the side of words. Members of the National Assembly agreed that a second vote on the bill should review and refine the texts of a number of the proposed provisions. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 10 votes for the vote, 1 vote against the vote, and 6 votes abstentioned, the Committee on Health proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmaceuticals, No 902-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u15	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Mr. Deputy Minister, will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Dr. Penkov, in the Commission Report, which was read by Dr. Daritkova, it was quite clear that there is an absolute lack of consensus in the Association of Bulgarian Pharmaceuticals itself, and the vast majority of them do not support the proposals implemented in the Law, which is submitted for consideration at first reading. Therefore, our group in the Health Commission proposed that this bill be returned for serious processing, to consider its appropriateness, all the more so that it is actually offered in a very short space before the implementation of the Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. It gives the impression that this is being done in the service of the current management, not without reason to concreteize its presence in the management of this pharmaceutical union. I will repeat just a few of the things that Dr. Daritkova suggested, although as a bill, I do not know how appropriate it is to offer it in the Chamber. It concerns the activities of a very specific organisation. In this way, we can also put many other bills that will concern other professional organisations. I have never witnessed such a thing before, so from this point of view, I am surprised at the decision to put it in the parliamentary room. The first thing that makes an impression is the lack of any real representation. This is described motamo and whoever you want can get acquainted with the opinions of regional pharmaceutical colleagues. The colleague Lachezar Ivanov paid attention to the fact that representativeness is so low that it varies between 8% and 10%, i.e. this representation would be real for an organization that has more than 20 members, respectively 100 thousand members. An organization that has five or six thousand members with such representation between one in twenty to one in thirty will have an average of between 8% and 10% representativeness. So all of this together with the seizure of functions by the Governing Council, which are destined to be decided by the Congress of the Pharmaceutical Union, and all the other changes that have been proposed, really requires the Members of the Chamber to reconsider their views and, in my opinion, to support our decision, this bill was also partly the opinion of colleague Ivanov in the review of the first reading, to be sent back for review and, when he is really refined, to be proposed again to the honourable audience for voting. Thank you, Mrs. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u17	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Dr. Genov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmacists aims to preserve and ensure the effective functioning of the structures and bodies of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. The need for the proposed texts in this bill occurred after the adoption of the Law in 2006 and, in particular, that the membership table has doubled, which currently amounts to 6536 Master Pharmacists. In this case, the quota of selection of delegates for the High Authority of the Union is one delegate to ten members, which means about 650 delegates in the relevant meeting. It is very important to note that the proposed changes are supported by 16 regional pharmaceutical colleges, which is presented in the opinion of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, and they represent about 81% of the membership table, among them are the largest structurally defining local organizations such as the Regional Pharmacy College Sofia, with more than 2200 members, visible from the opinions sent. The fact is that the large regional pharmaceutical colleges of Sofia, Plovdiv and so on, have serious difficulties in organizing, convening and holding the general meetings over the years. It cannot be argued that the proposed changes violate the principles adopted in the Law of 2006 of the organisation and functioning of the word organization and it can be pointed out that the time for changes is chosen correctly because at the end of 2019 the sixth consecutive reporting and election congress of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union should be held. It can be noted that importers have correctly identified the problems in the functioning of the organisation and have submitted relevant thought-out proposals that will contribute to the preservation of the place and role of regional colleges in the subordination of central and local authorities, especially the preservation of the democratic principle. A report provided by the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union clearly shows that the project has been subject to an internal discussion since the end of 2017. A total of five meetings of the Management Board have been held where three extended, with the participation of representatives of 17 regional pharmaceutical colleges, two informed meetings and serious internal communication on the subject of the proposed changes, and the project presented on the website of the Ministry of Health for public discussion. What is the cut-off of the amendments that the Bill foresees? First of all, the draft aims to improve the formation of the composition of the senior collective body of management. Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, which fixes the quota of a representative according to the increased number of members of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. It is clear how a quorum for holding a congress is defined and the minimum number of delegates, in view of the principle of representativeness, is half of the total number of all members of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union according to the list of members of the National Electronic Register. In the absence of at least half elected representatives of regional colleges according to the norm of representation, it is possible to hold general meetings for the selection of representatives of regional pharmaceutical organizations, with the congress being postponed by three months. The purpose of those amendments is to have predictability and guarantees for legitimate regular and extraordinary meetings of the senior national body of management of the word organisation. In this way, securing the work of the convention will create the necessary prerequisites for the convention to be convened and to make decisions on more relevant matters. In the amendments it is important to point out that they do not restrict in any way the representativeness of which was mentioned a moment ago, the powers and the right of participation of the regional pharmaceutical colleges of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union in a congress of the organization, regardless of their numerical composition, as the quota of representation is the same for all structures. Secondly, guarantees shall be established for the lawful holding of meetings of the Regional Pharmaceutical Colleges of the Pharmaceutical Union, setting out rules for a quorum, respectively holding a meeting in the event of an initial absence of a quorum with one hour delay and rules authorising members of the College to be represented in a general meeting. In this way the necessary legitimacy and prerequisites for regular work of the senior collective bodies of management of the regional colleges of the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union are achieved. The third group of changes are about bringing clarity to the relations of the central authorities of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and the authorities of the regional pharmaceutical colleges of the Pharmaceutical Union in full preservation of the independent legal personality of the regional pharmaceutical colleges of the Union. Fourth, the Law in § 12, t. 2 introduces significant administrative relief and reduces the bureaucratic burden of the members of the Pharmaceutical Union by exempting them from proving circumstances regarding their membership in the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the entry in the National Electronic Register of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union and the right to exercise their profession in proceedings before the administrative authorities. The general opinion is that the bill will improve the legal framework of the activity and functioning of the management bodies of the word organisation in accordance with the changes in objective public relations that occurred during the years of the operation of the Pharmaceutical Union. The effective exercise of the powers of the word organization and active protection of the rights and interests of Master Pharmacists cannot be carried out without due and legally guaranteed representation of the members in the management and engagement bodies in the activities of the Pharmaceutical Union. In turn, the existence and activity of word organizations is a sign of developed civil society and provides the rights and interests of patients for pharmaceutical care by master pharmacists who exercise the profession in accordance with the regulatory requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u19	Thank you, dear Dr. Genov. Are there any lines? I won't. Docent Yordanov, you have the floor for speech, then associate Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u20	Mrs. Chairman, Dr. Penkov, honourable colleagues! From what we have heard so far, we understand that the word organization of Bulgarian pharmacists really has problems. However, what we are being offered, and I am astonished at the importers, is their resolution through amendments to the Word Organization Act. In my opinion, this legal document should have been called the Draft for Changes in the Statute of the Word Organization of Bulgarian Pharmacists and accepted in a completely different room and not pleaded by this tribune. I would agree to consider such a bill, if it is a Bill that is a founding... when an organization is first established. I just want to introduce you to a few facts. Today, we are proposed to determine the representation rate of a word organization: of 20 members of the organization. What if tomorrow this organization becomes twice as big, because there are many pharmaceutical faculties already in Bulgaria, and colleagues of pharmacists who have completed their education abroad are constantly coming, again will the National Assembly consider a bill to change the norm of representation? Today we are proposed to adopt a text by which we say that the support bodies of the management of the word organization of the Bulgarian pharmacists have the right to be at the general meeting, but does not have the right to vote. Is that what we have to do today? Well, it's not even a question of a general meeting of a word organization, it's a question of the leadership of a word organization. There are some things that are nonsense. Imagine that a delegate is proposed to a general meeting of a regional college, if he does not want to attend the general meeting, to delegate his rights to another member of the organisation. Well, I hadn't heard that before! What if the coworkers don't want the person delegated to be the delegate to the general meeting? This is the replacement of the coworkers' vote! And now I understand why there are so many contradictions to these changes. There are many other things, so I propose that we abstain from voting, I believe that this bill should be referred to the organisation, that it resolve its issues in another way, and we can only assist it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u21	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Docent Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u22	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Deputy Minister, colleagues! Today we are looking at the Law on the Word Organization of the Pharmaceutical Union. I stand before you as one of the people, along with Dr. Ademov, I do not see him in the room, people who were involved in the establishment of the Pharmaceutical Union. When we created this word organization, we created it by an analogue of the Bulgarian Medical Union. There were many debates about how to be created, how to be associated, what regional organizations to be created. After all, in 2006 it became a fact. Today, when we are being offered these changes, I would like to express my opinion as a person who has been involved in its creation. I would like to say that the changes presented to us today on the agenda, first of all, do not reflect the opinion of the word. It is disturbing that 12 regional organisations are expressing their opinion contrary to the legislation tabled. They do not agree with the changes that have been tabled. When we are talking about a word organization, we must bear in mind that it was created so that it can protect the interests of the word, be able to represent the word before the society and accordingly give the best to society. Here we face sharp contradictions. I believe that 12 negative opinions of opinional organisations cannot in any way be overlooked just like that. I believe that a law on the word organisation must be consensual. The problems highlighted in these negative opinions could also be addressed here in Parliament a consensus Law on professional organisations could be adopted. The bill aims to improve the formation of the composition of the senior collective body of government, namely the Congress of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. I believe that trying to refine the quota in my opinion is an attempt not to democratically choose the leadership. Moreover, I will take the liberty of quoting in art. 22, para. 4 from now on the current bill: a delegate is being sent by the regional organizations of every ten people, and this has been so far. I believe that there is much more representative in this way, and when a collective body is elected, we will have greater representativeness and greater objectivity in making decisions. I believe that this bill sets itself some other objectives that are not highlighted in the motives. It cannot be three months before the selection of a new leadership is proposed to us such a law that changes the philosophy of choosing the highest authority. Secondly, here they aim for me, again I say, other attempts to be elected or to place a person who will not be accepted with universal approval by the word organization. In conclusion, I would say that this bill clearly shows that there are, to say the least, unclean targets. That is why I am expressing my opinion, personally, that I and my group will support this bill, as it has been adopted by the Council of Ministers, but must undergo a profound change between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u23	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Dr. Ademov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u24	Thank you. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not intend to speak on this project, because there is nothing in it that changes the philosophy of the Law on Word Organizations of Master Pharmacists. I have been provoked by previous statements because in the end, the changes proposed now in the Law can quite safely find a place in the Statute to be adopted by the convention itself. The point is that these changes had to be adopted at the previous convention, because the danger of now not coming to legitimate decisions of the Congress is causing the importers of this project to take these measures. Moreover, what the previous speaker said earlier is that they support the bill because it was submitted by the Council of Ministers. But, honourable Members, the National Assembly is not some addition to the Council of Ministers! The National Assembly is an independent institution and if we hold on to the dignity of the National Assembly, there is no way to support such a project that does not solve anything. Moreover, the Bill states that the representation of the Congress is from one delegate to twenty members of the word organization, and in the other documents, the impact assessment states: one delegate to thirty members. Even this is messed up in the proposed bill. Although it is not important what I say, it is a strong enough argument for this bill not to be supported. The arguments with which the government currently supports the Bill, with the same arguments, we reject it, we do not accept it. Why don't we accept it? Because legislative solutions should not solve the organization's internal issues. It is obvious that in this word organization, and not only in it, there is tension. However, tension cannot be regulated by legislative changes. It is no coincidence that colleague Ivanov just said that we should seek agreement between the individual countries within the word organization, and if such agreement is not found, we should not proceed to legislative decisions to force Congress to make legitimate decisions. See what this is about: 6600 Master Pharmacists in Bulgaria. This is the number in the register that has it in the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. What does it turn out to be? It turns out that 220 delegates are the ones who can make legitimate decisions at the convention. However, the decisions of the convention can be made in the presence of half of the delegates, that is, 110. The decisions can be legitimate in the half of these 110, that is, fifty-something people can make legitimate decisions. Is that what we're supposed to support right now?! I understand the idea of importers that security should be sought in the assembly, but this, again, should not go through legislative changes. With these arguments, our parliamentary group will refrain from supporting the proposed project.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u25	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the word organisation of master pharmacists, No 902-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019. They voted 143 people: 87, against 21, abstention 35. The proposal has been passed, and so has the Bill. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE Noise PROTECTION LAW IN THE ENVIRONMENT.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Council of Ministers submitted a second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act No 802 01-16, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018, adopted on the first vote on 12 July 2018. "Renewal and Supplemental to the Environmental Protection The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u27	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. They voted 133 MPs: 109, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u29	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u30	They voted 122 MPs: for 86, against 7, abstention 29. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u31	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words the values of environmental noise indicators shall be added to the premises of residential and public buildings in areas and territories intended for residential construction, recreation and areas and mixed use areas. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u32	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6. They voted 115 MPs: for 85, against 7, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me before I proceed with the report to make a procedural proposal: On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 sentence, third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the time limit for written proposals on the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on the word organisation of master pharmacists be three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u34	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 128 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u35	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u36	Statements? I can't see. I will put two texts to the vote, the first is the text of the importer for § 7, the second is the text of the importer for § 8, both supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: for 92, against 7, abstention 26. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u37	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer which is systematically reflected as § 10 and shall propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Article 16a is amended as follows: Art. 16a. (1) It shall be prohibited to charge sites for production, storage and trade and sites in the field of services uncovered and located in areas and territories intended for housing, recreation and mixed-use areas and in residential buildings and mixed-use buildings for the period from 23:00 to 8.00. (2) The sound shall be prohibited from objects under para. 1 and open areas in areas and territories intended for housing, recreation and mixed-use areas for the time from 14:00 to 16:00 and from 23:00 to 8:00, except for railway stations, bus stations, airports, sea stations and the use of disaster warning and alert systems. (3) It shall be prohibited to sound open areas in areas and territories intended for residential construction, recreation and mixed-use areas from road vehicles, except motor vehicles with special driving mode and in cases defined by a regulation of the relevant municipal council. (4) The sound of open areas of vessels for sport, tourism and entertainment and water services which sail in inland waters, in the territorial sea and in the inland waterways of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the exception of vessels with special traffic arrangements, shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements of para. 2. (5) It shall be prohibited to broadcast noise during construction for the time from 14:00 to 16:00 and from 23:00 to 8:00. (6) Exemptions from the prohibition under para. 2 shall be permitted during public outdoor events, and the sound of such events shall be carried out under conditions and in accordance with the rules laid down in para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u38	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 84, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure I would like to make an editorial proposal concerning art. 16a, para. 2: The sound of objects under para. 2 shall be prohibited. 1 and open areas in areas and territories intended for residential construction, recreation areas and mixed-use areas for the time from 14:00 to 16:00 and from 23:00 to 8:00 with the exception of territories. After the events, I add my editorial proposal: around religious temples and then follow the railway stations and so on. My argument is that there is no way to forbid our Christian bells to stop ringing at Easter at 12:00 p.m., or at Tomorrow morning before 8:00 p.m. For other religions there are also ways to sound. I speak because I belong to the Christian religion of Orthodox Christianity that this is categorically unacceptable and restricts religious freedoms, religion and the way they practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is a logic in such a proposal, but we still have to take into account the fact that there are people in a particular area who do not confess the respective religion, and there are people who do not confess any religion. I repeat: it makes sense. Personally, I do not object to such an amendment, but let us also add a text which obliges this sound to be in line with the relevant regulations of the Ministry of Health. In other words, don't turn it into too loud a sound and an annoying noise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u42	- What's the line? Is there a second line? You have the floor, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u43	Dear Mr. Tsonev, in the form of a reply I am making an editorial proposal of your editorial proposal in order to be in line with the other texts of the provision. It is more logical to point out the territory of religious temples because, anyway, the noise is emitted from the railway station, as is the sequel from the religious temple, respectively, to be correctly written. I believe that this will give an answer to the concerns that you present and which you want to regulate with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u44	Is there a third line? I won't. A hole, dear Mr. Tsonev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov, for being constructive. Indeed, the sound level is important, but there is no way to put a potentiometer on the bell. I want to tell you that the bells of the temples, especially of the Nevsky, and the big bells sound the same as being hit. Their sound significantly exceeds these standards and we simply cannot do it. We rely on the fact that, after all, those who do not profess a particular religion or do not confess at all will be tolerant of those who confess. Moreover, this does not happen 24 hours a day, neither is it so often nor so disturbing. Mrs. Daritkova, I accept your amendment to my editorial proposal. Keep in mind that it seems more correct what I have done as editorial. The reason is that there are temples whose bells are outside the temple, and if it's in the territory... [[Relations from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova.]] Yes, in the small villages are outside the church itself. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova.]] Depends, if there's a yard, it's in the church territory, if there isn't, it's not in the territory. But as you wish! Technically, we don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u46	Mr. Tsonev, I don't understand your editorial amendment is already different from Dr. Daritkova's editorial amendment because you didn't fully accept it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u47	Except for the territories of the religious temples... [[Relations from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u48	Dr. Daritkova, please, can you once again present the exact text of the editorial amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u49	After the proposal made, al. Art. 2 of art. 16a is going to sound like this: The sound of objects under para. 1 and open areas in areas and territories intended for housing, recreation and mixed-use areas from 14:00 to 16:00 and from 23:00 to 8:00 excluding religious temples, railway stations, bus stations, airports, sea stations and the use of disaster warning and alert systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u50	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in para. One and two, I've made suggestions. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova.]] Okay, I'll take the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. It turns out he doesn't belong here. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the editorial amendment proposed by the MP Daniela Daritkova. She was presented to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u53	From Tsonev and Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u54	Yeah. They voted 139 MP: for 103, against 1, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. I will now put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9, with the editorial amendment already adopted. They voted 131 MPs: 99, against 4, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u55	Proposal of the MP Hristo Prodanov and a group of MPs: In § 10 in the creations art. 16b the following additions are made: "1." In para. 1 at the end of the sentence is a comma and the period from 1 June to 31 August is added for the period between 24:00 and 8.00 2. In para. 2 after the words.8.00 the comma is placed and the date is added for the period 1 June.. 31 August... 24:00 and 8.00 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer which is systematically reflected as § 9 and shall propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 4 is inserted in Chapter 4. 16b: Art. 16b. (1) Natural persons, legal persons and sole traders shall submit an application to the municipal or regional administration for working time in the opening of sites under art. 16a, para. 1 as well as for changing their working hours, under conditions and by order laid down by a regulation of the respective municipal council. (2) To the application under para. 1 An opinion of the relevant regional health inspection shall be applied on compliance with the limits of noise indicators as defined by the ordinance under art. 11, p. 5. (3) For the issue of the opinion under para. 2 persons under para. 1 submit to the relevant regional health inspection: 1. an application which may also be sent electronically signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate or a qualified electronic signature as required by Regulation (EU) No and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and the Law on Electronic Governance; 2. a statement that the requirements of the Law on Construction in the Area are fulfilled....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. a copy of a document certifying the introduction of the construction into operation under the Construction Act on the territory; 4. a copy of a document certifying the right to use the object; 5. a record of measurement of the noise level emitted by the object within the stated working hours in neighbouring residential spaces adjacent to or bordering on the object; 6. a document for a paid state fee under para. 6. (4) The measurement under para. 3, p. 5 shall be carried out by independent laboratories which are accredited by the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service" or by another national accreditation body, which is party to the multilateral agreement on mutual recognition of the European accreditation organisation for the area concerned, or meet the recognition requirements under art. 5a, para. 2 of the Law on National Accreditation of Conformity Assessment Bodies and in whose scope of accreditation the indicator noise falls. The measurement shall be carried out in compliance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 11, p. 5 and the requirements set out in the relevant standard. (5) The regional health inspection shall issue the opinion under para. 2 within 10 days of submission of the application on the basis of the documents submitted under para. 3 and the verification of compliance with the values of noise indicators specified in the Protocol under para. 3, p. 5 with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 11, p. 5. (6) For the issue of the opinion under para. 2 shall be paid a state fee of an amount fixed in the tariff under art. 46 of the Health Act. (7) When finding discrepancies with the requirements of the legislation in force and/or incompleteness of the documents submitted under para. 3 a prescription shall be given and a deadline shall be fixed for compliance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 11, p. 5 and/or for the removal of incompletes in documents not exceeding 14 days, such as the term under para. Five stops running. (8) Within 10 days of the expiry of the term under para. 7 The regional health inspection shall carry out a measurement of the noise level emitted by the site within the requested working time, in cases where discrepancies with the requirements of the regulation under art. 11, p. Five, and draw up a protocol. (9) The regional health inspection shall issue the opinion under para. 2 when prescribed within 5 days of carrying out the measurement under para. 8 and/or removal of incompletes in documents. (10) In the event of failure to comply with the prescription under para. 7 The director of the regional health inspection shall make a reasoned refusal to issue the opinion under para. 2 and within 7 days inform in writing the person who submitted the application under para. 3. In this case, the procedure for issuing an opinion under para. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. (11) Refusal under para. 10 may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code, and the appeal shall not stop implementation. (12) In the event of a change in the circumstances under which the opinion under para. 2, a new opinion shall be issued in accordance with the order of para. 2... 9.......................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u56	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Statements? [[Noise and lines.]] You have the floor, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Daritkova, dear colleagues! My proposals under paragraphs 1 and 2 are the following changes, extension of the time zone for total noise ban, instead of from 11:00 to 8:00, at 24:00 to 8:00. My motives are as follows. First, eight hours is quite enough time for complete silence and respectively for complete rest and recovery. Secondly, during the three summer months, you know that by 22.30 hours out, people walk, so that by 24:00 is the optimal time limit for this ban to enter into force from midnight. The third main reason.. since legislation is still a balance of interest, we should try to find a balance between business and the calm for citizens, for the rest. Many restaurants both inside the country and along the Black Sea coast, you know, are discovered. They wait these three months to work hard, to make money, respectively to make their profits and pay their taxes. In my opinion, the balance between the interests of citizens and the interests of small business 24:00 is good luck, so I urge you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. The line is given by Mr. Simeonov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please! It's too loud! Dear Mr. Simov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Prodanov, I suggest you get out of this standard scheme how it is good for us and how it is not good. Parliament rests the month of August, it is true. A large part of the holidays are July, and this is true, only it is not right to talk about a balance between the interests of society and business. Besides parliament, besides resort, hotel business, there is another business that works on a normal working day. And when the worker has to get up at 6:30 in the morning to drink his coffee to be at 7:30 at work, he doesn't have enough time from 24:00 to 6:30 to sleep, to restore his vital powers and abilities. Remember that 75% of Bulgarian workers work in small and medium-sized enterprises. And they're not all tourists. And for your information, as I receive every week's reports on the 112 noise signals, for the week 10.. 16th, we have four noise signals from Nessebar municipality. Four at 90 signals from the Burgas region, mainly Burgas and the region of adjacent cities. Only four of them are for making noise from restaurants in Nessebar. I can give you the reference. I'm talking to facts. I'm not setting them up, I'm not making them up. What's that say? It shows that the actions of the institutions in the summer of 2017 have produced a result and many of the establishments have already become silent, have done what they should do. Nobody's against their business, least of all a guy in this region like me. My request is that you think about it, because besides tourism there are a number of other businesses, small companies, and when people are under such stress, it is no longer a noise sickness, they cannot perform their duties normally. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line. "Dear Dr. Daritkova."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u61	Dear Mr. Prodanov, with the proposals approved by the Committee on Health, we do not prohibit work after 23:00, but we prohibit and put regulation of noise emitted by these establishments in the environment and it has indicators that comply with the regulations introduced. And in this sense, I think that it will be combined, on the one hand, the desire to develop and operate, on the other hand, to protect people's health from the effects of noise that is beyond the limits of bearable. My second argument that we cannot support your proposal is that you make no exceptions for the resorts. Thus done, the proposal implies that there should be no exception, but that the provision should also be carried over to the residential areas, which I believe is also not particularly acceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u62	Thank you. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u63	Thank you. Dear Mr. Simeonov, first of all, I disagree with you that you should not seek a balance between the interests of society and the interests of business. On the contrary, this is exactly what legislation should be looking for. And I didn't say that, and you paid attention, Mrs Daritkova, that in my proposal it is only about seaside restaurants, so that we define some territories. After all, the law is a law that applies to the whole country. Inside the country, in every town and village there are such small braves. Much of these establishments, as I said in my speech, are waiting for these three months a year so that they can make some profit with which to then drive the whole year, so I stand behind my proposal and call on my colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Are there any other speeches? Come in for a speech, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I thought that change in art. 16 It will pass quietly, but it turns out that there are problems and the reason is not with us, the MPs. If the Ministry of Tourism had prepared a classification of the resorts, the noise requirements in them would not be able today to hold this debate, so I call, although we will vote with abstention for this bill, the Ministry of Tourism will no longer delay and do its job, expecting someone, first, to go ahead with the general law, which makes Mr. Valeri Simeonov, and only then to determine which resorts, where there should be, at what time, what noises and so on... My call is as follows: as soon as possible Minister Angelkova will do his job and submit the necessary amendments to the Tourism Act to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u66	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches? No. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Hristo Prodanov and a group of MPs. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a problem. The MPs failed to vote. Cancel the vote. I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Hristo Prodanov and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 127 MPs: 27, against 43, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 10. They voted 124 MPs: 91, against 7, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u67	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u68	Thank you. Are there any speeches? No. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 11 by importer. They voted 115 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u69	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u70	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 12 by importer. They voted 108 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u71	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. The Minister of Interior or officials designated by him shall exercise control: 1. on road vehicles, open to public use, with regard to their emissions of noise in the environment in accordance with the Road Traffic Act and its implementing regulations; 2. to comply with the requirements of art. 16a, para. 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u72	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13 by importer, which shall become § 11. They voted 104 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u73	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the information technologies and communications shall be added after the word (b) To be created t. 4. "4." comply with the requirements of art. 16a, para. 4. 2. In para. 2 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u74	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14 by importer which shall become § 12. They voted 99 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u75	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 shall be added at the end to comply with the prohibition under Article 1. 16a, para. Five o'clock. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 is added at the end. Art. 1 and 6 and art. 16b, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u76	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 15 which shall become § 13. Vote 95 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u77	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u78	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 16 by importer. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 17, 18 and 19, which shall become paragraphs 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u80	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 17, 18 and 19 which shall become paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 respectively. Vote 95 MPs: 86, no objection, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u81	The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 28a: Art. 28a. (1) In the event of a finding of infringement under art. 16a, para. 2 and 3, the officials appointed by the Minister of Interior under art. 19 issue a written order to suspend the sound: 1. of the relevant establishment for production, storage and trade or establishment in the field of services exposed and located in areas and territories intended for residential construction, recreation and areas and mixed-use areas, as well as in residential buildings with more than one dwelling and mixed-use buildings in the cases referred to in art. 16a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. by sound means located in open areas in areas and territories intended for residential construction, recreation zones and territories and mixed-use areas in the cases referred to in art. 16a, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. of the road vehicle in the cases referred to in art. 16a, para. 3. (2) Orders under para. 1 may be appealed in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code and the appeal shall not stop implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 17 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: 83 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u83	The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 28b: Art. 28b. (1) In the case of complaints and noise emission signals above the limits defined by the ordinance under art. 11, p. 5 from a specific object under art. 16b, para. 1, the regional health inspection within three days shall carry out a measurement of the penetrating noise in the neighbouring accommodations concerned, which are adjacent to or bordering the site, and shall draw up a consolidated report. (2) When the measurement under para. 1 no noise emission above the limits defined in the regulation under art. 11, p. 5, the regional health inspection shall conclude compliance within 5 days of the measurement being carried out. (3) When the measurement under para. 1 The emission of noise above the limits defined in the regulation under art. 1 shall be recorded. 11, p. 5, the regional health inspection shall give a prescription and set a deadline for compliance with the requirements of the Regulation, which shall not exceed 14 days, and the period under para. 2 stops running. (4) Within 10 days of the expiry of the term under para. 3 The regional health inspection shall re-measure the noise level emitted by the subject of the inspection and shall draw up a consolidated report. (5) The regional health inspection shall issue a conclusion of compliance with the prescribed prescription under para. 3 within 5 days of the re-measurement under para. 4. (6) In the event of failure to comply with the prescription under para. 3 The director of the regional health inspection shall issue an order for the revocation of the opinion issued under art. 16b, para. 2 and within 7 days notify in writing the person concerned under art. 16b, para. 1, as well as the mayor of the municipality and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior for immediate action on competence. (7) The order under para. 6 may be appealed in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Code and the appeal shall not stop implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u84	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u85	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the directors of the Regional Health Inspections is added. 2. They're creating an al. 3... In the event of failure to comply with the order under art. 28a, para. 1, t. 1 The activity of the site shall be suspended for a period of 3 days and notified in plain sight that the activity of the site has been suspended. (4) In the event of subsequent infringement under art. 16a, para. 2 carried out within one year from the issue of the order under art. 28a, para. 1, t. 1, the activity of the site shall be suspended for a period of 14 days and notified in plain sight that the activity of the site has been suspended. (5) The suspension of the activity under para. 3 and 4 shall be carried out by order for a compulsory administrative measure issued by the officials appointed by the Minister of Interior under art. 19............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u86	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 20 by importer, which shall become § 19. Vote 92 MPs: 82 against 8, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u87	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u88	Are there any speeches? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 21, supported by the Commission, which shall become § 20. Vote 94 MPs: 85 against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u89	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "100 to 300" are replaced by "200" to "700". 2. In para. 2 the words "six hundred to three hundred" are replaced by "six hundred to seven hundred" and the words "six hundred to two thousand" are replaced by "six hundred to three thousand." 3. In para. 3 the words "size 500 to 1000" shall be replaced by "seventy to five thousand" and the words "six thousand to five thousand" shall be replaced by "six thousand to seven thousand."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u90	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22 by importer, which shall become § 21. Vote 101 MPs: 83 against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u91	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "1000 to 3000" shall be replaced by "3000" to 6000. 2. In para. 2 the words "4000" to "10,000" shall be replaced by "5000" to "12 000."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u92	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 23 by importer, which shall become § 22. Vote 96 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u93	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 34a: Art. 34a. (1) For violation of art. 16a, para. 5 natural persons are punished with a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN, while legal persons and sole traders are subject to a penalty of 3,000 to 6000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 natural persons are punished with a fine from 2000 to 6000 BGN and a penalty of 5000 to 12 000 BGN is imposed on legal persons and sole traders.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u94	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 24 by importer, which shall become § 23. Vote 98 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u95	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 34b: Art. 34b. By drawing up the act establishing an administrative infringement, evidence relating to the establishment of the infringement may be seized and retained under art. 16a, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u96	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 25 by importer, which shall become § 24. Vote 97 MPs: 82, against 3, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u98	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 26, which shall become § 25. Vote 96 MPs: 84, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u100	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 27, which shall become § 26. They voted 99 MPs: 81, against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u101	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 shall be added at the end, including mechanical and electronic sound equipment. 2. They're creating a t. 22? 25: "22." The sound is sound in the environment transmitted by mechanical and electronic sound devices and/or by sound extraction and singing. 23. Public events are concerts, performances, screenings, circus performances, sports competitions and events, etc. of a similar nature, exhibitions, fairs, ceremonies, public holidays or events of an official or commemorative nature. 24. The areas and territories intended for residential construction, recreation zones and territories and mixed-use areas shall be the areas and territories within the meaning of the ordinance under art. 13, para. 1 of the Law on Construction of the Area. 25. The area open is the undeveloped part of the territory, including the part on which there is a construction without a roof or at least one wall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u102	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 28 by importer, which shall become § 27. They voted 107 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u103	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u105	Under § 29, there is a proposal of the MP Hristo Prodanov and a group of MPs: In § 29, in the text to be published, after the words "8.00" the comma is placed and the date is added for the period 1 June "31 August" "24:00 and 8.00" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Georgi Mihailov, made under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 5 words "22 to 6 hours" shall be replaced by "22.00" to "8.00."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u106	Statements? I won't. First, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Hristo Prodanov and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: 23, against 54, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall now put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 29 by importer, which shall become § 28. They voted 103 MPs: 96, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u107	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 30, which becomes § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, applications for working hours and change of working hours under art. 16b, para. 1 shall be submitted and dealt with in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u108	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30 by importer, which shall become § 29. They voted 105 MPs: 86, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u109	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 30: 30. Under-laws on the application of this law shall be adopted, issued and implemented accordingly, in accordance with the requirements of that law, within 6 months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u110	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 31, which shall become § 30. 90 MPs voted: 78, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. That's how we finished the bill. Thank you for expressing and solemn presentation of the bill, dear Dr. Daritkova. Let's continue with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRIVACYZE A COMPANY OF A COMPANY OF THE ENGINES OF A VIDIN. You're welcome, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 for admission in the hall of Veliko Zanchev "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications," and Mrs. Albena Lazarova "Director of the Directorate of Concessions and Control of the Activities of Commercial Companies and Public Enterprises" in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 93 MPs: 84, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are continuing with the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, I present: "COMMODITY" on a draft decision on the privatisation of a part of the property of the Port of Vidin (Port of Vidin) Ltd, No 902-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 May 2019. At its regular meetings held on 5 and 12 June 2019, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the draft decision on the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Port of Vidin. The draft decision was presented by Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. "Port Vidin" Ltd. is a commercial company listed in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The company's capital includes a separate part representing a motor ship.Hurricane, registered in the port of Lom, with unique European identification number 47000019. The motor ship is not used and is not necessary for the implementation of the company's activities, which is the reception and service of passenger ships, the provision of pontoon services and bunkering. The operation of the ship is also associated with serious maintenance costs. In accordance with art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on privatization and post-privatization control the privatisation of included in the list under art. 3, para. 1 commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital, including their compartments or included in the list of separate parts of the property of commercial companies, shall be carried out on the basis of a decision adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Following that decision, the privatisation procedure will be implemented by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised as to when and where the ship was produced, what was its price, what repairs were carried out and what means of maintenance were put in place, what is the effective life of the vessel, why the need to use it was dropped, and whether it was studied the possibility that another state port along the Danube could use it before it was offered for sale. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications provided written additional information on the issues asked. Following the presentation and discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and due to a technical error in the legal basis for the adoption of the draft decision, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt: Project! DECISION for the privatisation of a separate part of the property Plovdiv, Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. Plovdiv. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED 1. Privatization of a separate part of the property of the Port of Vidin (Port of Vidin) Ltd. is represented by a motor ship of Hurricane, registered in the port of Lom, with unique European identification number 47000019 and parameters: length 24,60 m, width 6,71 m, board height 2,50 m, displacement 257,50 cubic. M, ship gassing at maximum load of 1,22 m, average gassing empty 1,15 m, equipped with two diesel engines SKL-DDR, type 6NVD26-1, capacity 264 kW each, 750 rpm, steel housing, according to registration certificate No 0009 of 28 August 2015 of the Maritime Administration Executive Agency and inland navigation ship certificate No 40-01-1001N of 13 December 2018. 2. The cash proceeds from the privatisation of a motor ship to be transferred to the account of the Port of Vidin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u114	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. There's another report. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, to present the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision on the privatisation of a part of the property of the Port of Vidin (Port of Vidin) Ltd, No 902-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 May 2019. At its meeting on 31 May 2019 the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications examined a draft decision for the privatisation of a separate part of the property of the Port of Vidin (Port of Vidin) Ltd., No 902-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 May 2019. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Law on privatization and post-privatization control the privatisation of included in the list under art. 3, para. 1 commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in capital, including for their units or included in the list under para. 1 separate parts of the property of commercial companies shall be carried out on the basis of a decision adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Following that decision, the implementation of the privatisation procedure by the Privatization Agency is possible. "Port of Vidin" Ltd. is a commercial company listed in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The company's capital includes a separate part representing a motor ship, Hurricane, registered in the port of Lom. The reasons for the draft decision are that for its purpose the object described is not directly related, is not used and is not necessary for the implementation of the company's activities, which consists in the reception and service of passenger ships, in the operation of pontoon services and bunkering. On the other hand, the Port of Vidin.Video Ltd has repeatedly made attempts to use the ship as intended, which have failed in view of the limited market of this activity in the region. The operation of the ship by the company, on the other hand, is also linked to serious maintenance costs. In this regard, in recent years, the company has entered into Bearboat Charter contracts and the latter contract has been terminated at the request of the charterer. Another important point, noted in the reasons of the importer, is that, with the order of 2018 of the Director of the Directorate of Regional Supervision The importers point out that this would make it difficult to accept and process passenger ships and bunker and inspection ships through which the operator realises the main object of its activity. As point two of the Project Decision, it is written that the cash from the privatisation of a motor ship, Hurricane, will be transferred to the company's account. According to importers, this will enable the company's investment intentions to be met and increase the competitiveness of the port. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 12 votes, is proposed by the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision to privatize a part of the property of the Port of Port of Vidin and 7 votes abstention, No 902-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u116	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Will there be an importer's opinion? I won't. I give the floor for speeches. Here you are, dear Mrs. Saveclieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to speak, as in the Economic Commission, the first reading of the decision was postponed in order to specify some details and facts about the ship under consideration. I would therefore also like to present to my fellow Members the opinion that we have also received from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Port of Vidin is a commercial company which is included in the list, Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The company's capital included precisely the separate part representing a motor ship, Hurricane, registered in the port of Lom. For its purpose, this site has no direct relationship, is not used and is not necessary for the implementation of the company's activities, which consists in the reception and service of passenger ships, in the operation of pontoon services and bunkering. Port Vidin has repeatedly made attempts to use the ship as intended, which have failed in view of the limited market of this activity in the region. The operation of the ship by the company, on the other hand, is also linked to serious maintenance costs. In addition, in recent years the company has entered into Bearboat Charter contracts and the last contract has been terminated at the request of the charterer of 26 September 2018. The questions that arose in the Economic Commission were related to the year of the ship's production, what repairs were carried out on it, what was its residual value and why it had come to the point that it was not used for its intended purpose and did not need it. The infusion procedure was carried out in 2015, subject to the provisions of the legislation in force following agreement with a 2014 protocol decision by the Privatisation Agency. The reasons for the decision to transfer the port complex Lom to the port of Port of Vidin..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The port complex of Loms EAD has continued to carry out its commercial activity without the provision of port services. Since the beginning of 2014, the company has worked with a significantly reduced number and volume of commercial activity, as a result of the lack of capacity to carry out port services significantly deteriorated the operating and financial indicators. Although the company has significantly reduced its costs, the revenue generated is limited to revenues from the services provided by the maneuvering ship.Hurricane. and the sale of the remaining fixed assets, goods, spare parts, materials and scrap, which the concessionaire did not wish to purchase or rent. However, these revenues are insufficient to cover the costs of the activities carried out by the company. Inflation of the Port complex in Port of Vidin is also claimed given the possibility of additional financial proceeds from the sale of assets in the town of Lom for the port of Vidin, whose financial situation compared to the other public ports is less favourable. This also applies to the motor ship "Huragan" and it is estimated that the revenues from the rent or sale of the motor ship would also contribute to improving the financial situation of the Port of Vydin. The concessionaire of the port terminal Lom, when the concession contract entered into force, indicated that he did not wish to purchase or rent the motor ship On the part of the other state-owned companies, port operators, there is no interest in the acquisition of the asset, given that they already have maneuverable ships. The boat-tacher ship is designed for maneuvering and was manufactured in 1969 in Burgas Shipyard and in the same year the ship was purchased at a price of 44 thousand. BGN 985. 73 s. and has been put into service by the Port Complex. Three repairs were made, of which two were basic and one engine repair. The repairs have achieved an increase in the useful life of the vessel, which is estimated to be between 50 and 60 years old. It is reflected in the expert assessment prepared by a licensed valuer on the preparation of the procedure for renting out a motor ship in 2017, with the ship's market assessment as of 2017, amounting to 62 thousand. Five hundred and By this I can say that all the circumstances and imperative reasons for which the motor ship "Hurricane" has been offered for sale have been clarified to the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any lines to her speech because that was a statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u119	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We in the BSP group will not support this proposal for two main reasons. The first, you know our opinion, our positions on the privatisation of compartments. It became clear from Mrs. Saveklieva's statement that the ship was indeed depreciated and that it was not needed at the port of Vidin. In the Commission, we discussed this issue and I think there were good proposals, such as that ship being transferred to the assets of one of the other public ports along the Danube River, which was not adopted. The second main reason, which is actually the main reason why we will not support this draft decision, is that it is not normal for the National Assembly to break the laws it adopts itself. What do I mean? The Draft Decision states that the amount that will come from the sale of this ship will be entered into the budget of the company concerned. According to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, the funds that have come from the sale of parts of those companies that are on the ban list are entered into the Silver Fund. Yes, the amount that this ship would eventually sell for is not great, but the act of breaking the law by the National Assembly, which should be a pillar of compliance with the legislation in our view, is absurd and that is the second reason why we will not support this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u120	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. I put to the vote the draft decision presented to you by Mrs. Saveklieva. They voted 97 MPs: 66, against 10, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u121	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I ask for a re-vote for technical reasons - some Members have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-19.u122	Thank you. We are voting on the motion that has just been voted on. They voted 103 MPs: 72, against 12, abstention 19. The proposal and the decision have been adopted. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded the meeting for today. We're adjourned. Next meeting, tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
