ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I offer your attention to the National Assembly's Work Programme for April 17th from 13:00 p.m. and April 18th, 2019: "1." Projects of decisions on changes in the Standing Committees. Importer Daniela Daritkova, 10 April 2019 and 12 April 2019 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 29 March 2019 3. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importer sandar Ivanov and a group of MPs, on 4 April 2019 4. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 Importer of the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 March 2019 Point 1 for Thursday, 18 April 2019 5. Parliamentary control. I put to the vote the so-read Programme Project. They voted 126 MPs: 124, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 10 April 2019 to 16 April 2019: Draft decision for the opening of the Higher Military School called the Higher School of Air, Georgy Benkovski. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is also assigned to the Committee on Defence and to the Committee on Education and Science. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. The importer is Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill to supplement the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. The importer is Iglika Sabeva and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to change the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement for the Economic Review of the Republic of Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency (IAC) for 2018 It's classified, and it's a Project Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is assigned to the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Oil Rose Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Governments of the other Member States of the South East European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative (the Governments of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Turkey, the Republic of Albania and Romania) on the arrangements with the host country for the Secretariat of the South East European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative signed on 4 April 2018 in Ankara, the Republic of Turkey. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to an additional Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending the State Property Act. The importer is Alexander Nenkov. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the lead, and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Messages: On 10 April 2019 was received a Report on the results of a study on the topic of the Bulgarian Constitution, public attitudes and anticipation in the context of the upcoming elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria 2019, held by the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies in the period 13 March 2019. The report and its annexes were published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute on: key indicators for Bulgaria as of 5 April 2019, indexes of turnover in the section of the "Retail Trade" without trade in cars and motorcycles in February 2019; indexes for industrial production in February 2019; indexes of construction production in February 2019; inflation and indexes of consumer prices in March 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item on the agenda: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES IN THE CONFIGURATION OF THE STANDING COMMITMENTS OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The importer is Daniela Daritkova, Chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. I'm voting on the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u2	They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The next proposal for a decision is to complete the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Lilyana Drumeva Radeva as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs Daritkova's next proposal is for a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Krasen Georgiev Krastev as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The next draft decision with importer Mrs Daritkova is a decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Krasen Georgiev Krastev as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I'm voting on the draft decision. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of the National Assembly's Work Programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE TRADE REGISTER AND THE REGISTER OF LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIAN TARGET. Importer is the Council of Ministers. You have the floor to present the Committee on Legal Affairs Report, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of Mrs. Desislava Ahladova, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u4	I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister. Go on, dear Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u5	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 902-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2019. At its meeting held on 11 April 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Galina Dimitrova, State Expert at the Ministry of Law. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ahladova, who pointed out that it provides for applications for the declaration under art. 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Accounting Act and applications for entry of circumstances concerning the actual owners under art. 63, para. 1 and 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and Art. 6, para. 3 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, persons controlled by them and their actual owners to be examined in accordance with the order of their entry, separate from other applications. The aim of the Bill is to improve the organisation and effectiveness in the work of the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities, as well as to overcome the delay in processing and examining all categories of applications for entry, deletion and announcement, which takes into account the principle of speed and procedural economy of the registration activity. Ms. Ahladova pointed out that the bill will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget and added that the costs of implementing the regulation will be within the framework of the budget established for the respective office. In the discussion took part the People's Representative Christian Mitev, who expressed his support for the Bill, pointing out that it is timely and its adoption will contribute to avoiding blocking the business of trade turnover. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, No 902-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Dear Mrs. Ahladova, you have the floor to present to the MPs the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to present to your attention the bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities to be examined. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities provides for explicit arrangements concerning the time limit for consideration by officials on the entries of applications for declaration under art. 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Law, by which undertakings which did not operate during the reporting period are exempted from the obligation to publish their annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and the annual report on their activities. The bill shall also lay down the time limit for examining the applications for entry of the circumstances concerning the actual owners under art. 63, para. 1 and 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and Art. 6, para. 3 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, their controlled persons and their actual owners. The statement by which undertakings which did not operate during the reporting period are exempted from the obligation to publish the annual financial statement of their activity shall be published in the Commercial Register by 31 March of the following year. Persons obliged to submit applications for actual owners shall do so within four months from 31 January 2019. The Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities provides for short time limits for the examination of applications for entry, deletion and announcement of registration officials to be given immediately after three working days after their entry. Upon initial registration of the trader, the pronouncement shall be up to the end of the following business day on receipt of the application. The joint examination of all the above applications is capable of creating overload and inefficiencies in the work of the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities. The urgent change is also required by the fact that according to data from the National Statistical Institute the number of inactive enterprises at present is from about 150,000 to 200,000. If no legislative measures are taken to settle the requirements and the time limits for examining applications for the declaration under art. 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Accounting Act, all these companies can be expected to declare their declarations in the Information System of the Commercial Register. As a consequence of the expected announcement of a large number of declarations, there is a risk that a huge number of applications will occur in the Registry Agency at the beginning of 2019. Similarly is the issue of the number of applications for the entry of circumstances concerning the actual owners. The aim of the Bill is to improve the organisation and effectiveness of the work of the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities, overcome the delay in processing and examining all categories of applications for entry, deletion and announcement, which takes into account the principle of speed and procedural economy of the registration activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ahladova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u9	Dear colleagues, I would like to say why in this urgent order it is necessary to adopt such an amendment in the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities in art. 19 to create a new paragraph. Of course, this is also related to a change in the previous paragraph of the same article. 19 in which the second sentence is deleted. We need to explain it so that everyone in this room understands what you'll be voting for in a moment. You know that one of the priorities of GERB's government during this term is reducing the administrative burden. You know, the ministries have worked hard on this subject, and we in this National Assembly have adopted very few changes in the laws in order to ease the administrative burden of companies and citizens. In this regard, it is from 1 January 2019 that an amendment of the Accounting Act has been in place, enabling all legal entities to submit annual tax returns and reports to them and to publish them in the Commercial Register if they do not have an activity, i.e. they would have filled out forms with some zeros inside, not to fill out these forms, not to submit them to the Commercial Register. Do not pay a fee to the Trade Register for making an entry on their account, but for once in the year to submit a declaration that they are not operating. Of course, it is written in the Accounting Act that this declaration should be made public, in this case published in the Commercial Register by 31 March of the following year. That is, within the period within which they accept their annual accounts, they shall complete their tax returns to which they apply those accounts. Within the same period, they do not complete a tax return because they do not have an activity and submit only one declaration that they do not have an activity. Naturally, they also save fees, not only administrative efforts. You do understand, however, that, by submitting these declarations, there is a time limit under the Accounting Act in which they must be entered in the Commercial Register. We all know about the workload of the Trade Register. We all know that we, too, here in this Chamber, adopted a change in the Trade Register a while ago, with which we obliged, when a person first registered his company, his application to be examined within three working days and pronounced immediately in order to make the most of a new company's registration in the Trade Register. In that same article. 19, in which we are now making changes, these things are recorded. And now, when we have a requirement for reduced time limits when entering, we have a requirement for a period to enter this declaration, at the same time we have a requirement for publication of the accounts of businesses, of course, I will add another requirement, which we adopted here last year in the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, namely the submission of a declaration of actual owner, which is also filed in the Commercial Register. By the way, the period for the original declaration of actual owner is 31 May this year, which should also be published in the Commercial Register. Of course, all of this, being in the Trade Register, there is no way to comply with the time limits for fast registration of companies that we have put in the Law. It is therefore necessary, with explicit text, to say that when it comes to announcing annual financial statements and reports, what all companies do every year and which is a huge volume when it comes to submitting an application under the Law on Accounting for a lack of activity, which is also annual, and when it comes to entering the declarations of an actual owner, which for 2019 will be in a very serious volume, it is precisely these circumstances to be entered under the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, to be dealt with in the order of their entry and to be entered separately from other applications. Saying that we will enter them separately from other applications, release the Commercial Register, first of all, prioritize it to examine and record the applications for registration of a company, so that we should review this change again in the context of reducing the administrative burden and securing the Accounting Act, the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, the Law on Economic and Financial Relations of Companies, that is, the texts and deadlines recorded in these laws, should be respected. I call on you to support what colleagues have proposed, because it is entirely in favour of business, it is entirely in the direction of reducing the administrative burden and, ultimately, on the legal basis of the Registry Agency to implement those deadlines and those entries that we, as a legislator, have introduced to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? There shouldn't be any... everything has been explained extremely in detail. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will give you a slightly different view of these changes. I join Mrs. Stoyanova's statement and call on you to support the bill. Yes, it does solve a painful problem which can become a very serious not only brake, but also a serious one, I would say, a threat to the normal course of the trade turnover, to the normal execution of entries, deletions, announcements by traders of circumstances which are also required under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities, and by the provisions of the Commercial Law, which cannot be unrelated to this registration law, to be announced. I will bring you back to the goals and philosophy of the Commercial Register Act. The Commercial Register Act is actually part of the reform of the justice system and, I would say, we can define it as one of the first laws in which the idea and philosophy of e-Justice started to take place in the specialty and, in particular, in the registration proceedings. As you know, e-Justice aims to ensure a fundamental speed of proceedings and the process in registration proceedings. I think this has undoubtedly been achieved with the adoption of the Commercial Register Act. With the changes that we made last term, I recall that then to the Trade Register and to traders obligations to carry out entries, deletions and announcements were created in relation to non-profit legal entities. These are associations in public and private benefit and foundations. The Trade Register then informed us that they had the relevant material and human collateralisation to deal with this. A sufficiently long period has been given by the re-registered legislator, more precisely, to non-profit legal entities by the district courts where the registration was carried out until now, in the Registry Agency, already in the Commercial Register and not only in the Commercial Register, but also a register of non-profit legal entities. Without excluding, on the contrary, considering that we also have special rules under special laws, such as in this case the requirements of the Accounting Act for a corresponding declaration of declarations under art. 38, para. 9, p. 2, which was developed in detail by Mrs. Stoyanova, I will not dwell on this, applications for entry of circumstances concerning the actual owners of art. 63, para. 1 and 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, and again the same circumstances under art. 6, para. 3 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations for companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, their controlled persons and their actual owners to be dealt with in the order of their entry separately from other applications. In fact, all these obligations, which aim to ensure publicity and transparency, fulfilling relevant requirements, including European directives, European legislation, especially when we are talking about the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, which, as you recall, implemented the relevant directive in this area, all these special requirements prove to be capable of leading, in practice, to the blaming of the main activity which was put in place by the adoption of the Commercial Register Act and by its amendment from the previous National Assembly, which added non-profit legal entities to it. It is no coincidence in the Law that one of the main principles is the speed and procedural economy of speed and procedural economy, which are inherent in e-government and, in particular, electronic justice, including the electronization of registration proceedings. However, it is absolutely real if these amendments are not adopted, in practice, this speedy and procedural economy, which is a fundamental dignity of the registration proceedings in front of the trade register, is lost and ambiguity of the efforts made for years by the Registry Agency, by the Ministry of Justice, by various configurations of the National Assembly, to not only be created but also to develop the system of registration proceedings with regard to traders and the Trade Register in particular. I believe that it is correct to give priority to applications for entry, deletion and announcement of traders. Here I will complement Mrs. Stoyanova's registration not only of new trading companies and sole traders, but also the registration of different circumstances related to their activity, the entry of capital increases, the entry of changes in the management and control bodies of the trading company, which can very seriously if these changes are not made and no advantage is given to these entries, not only to hinder but to literally block the trade turnover, on the one hand. For me, however, the indirect damage that will result from such adverse processes is the collapse of both the confidence of traders and of citizens in a broader sense, and of legal persons, i.e. all legal entities in the business of the trade register, respectively, in e-Justice in a broader aspect. If we do not ensure speed in the registration proceedings in the Trade Register with regard to traders, there is no way to convince someone tomorrow that when the e-nization in the judicial sphere is gaining speed when the rules of the Administrative Procedure Code of Electronic Call enter into force, the electronic supports in the enforcement proceedings under the Civil Procedure Code, that this electronicisation will lead to speed. If we fail here and now in our efforts to solve this problem, and if we do not accept these changes, we will not only create a problem for traders and turnover, but we will also compromise the trust in a long-term plan that has been built, I would say, even the fragile trust of citizens, the society in the electronization of justice and in the changes that we have adopted in procedural laws, the steps that we have made so far, and that we should not allow it. Therefore, once again, I call on you to support this bill, not only to allow us not to have a collapse in trade turnover, but also to strengthen confidence in the electronicisation of justice and in the proceedings which should very soon enter into force in the procedural laws, in the administrative and civil processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, dear Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with the motives shared in the speeches of colleagues Mitev and Stoyanova. I would also like to highlight why it is necessary to support this law. Except that the aim of the Bill is to improve the organisation and effectiveness in the work of the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Persons, as well as to overcome the delay in processing and examining all categories of applications for entry, deletion and announcement, which also takes into account the principle of speed, procedural economy of the registration activity, but not least the principle of transparency. I share what Mr. Mitev said about the fact that all changes made by acts to this National Assembly and its previous composition are in favour of judicial reform. This is part of the judicial reform of the governments of Borisov 2 and 3. Now the expected result of the application of the new rule for separate examination of applications for declarations under art. 38, para. 9, p. 2 of the Accounting Act and of applications for entry of circumstances concerning the actual owners under art. 63, para. 1 and 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and under art. 6 of the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime or so-called offshore zones, as well as their controlled persons and their actual owners, is in order to prevent and limit the cases of later notification of other acts concerning traders, branches of foreign traders, non-profit legal entities for which it is provided by Law that they are subject to notification. This will provide prerequisites for the normal functioning of the business, for the timely entry of new commercial establishments and entities, the changes made to the accounts of the entities already entered, the announcement of invitations to call general meetings of shareholders for consultation through the business register portal and the register of non-profit legal entities necessary for economic operators and all other entities using the information system on a daily basis. It is also important to mention that this bill is extremely timely in view of the fact that according to the data of the National Statistical Institute, the number of inactive enterprises is between 150 and 200 thousand. In the event that these legislative changes are not taken, the changes governing the requirements and the time limits for examining applications for the declaration under art. 38 of the Accounting Act, it can be expected that the number of entities that did not operate in the financial year 2018 to take action to declare declarations in the information system of the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities. As a consequence of the expected announcement of a large number of declarations, there will again be a build-up of many applications in the Agency for the................................................................................... I believe that the bill must be supported. In this sense are also the reasons which were presented by Deputy Minister Ahladova, and I hope that colleagues will understand. We will support this bill and, if there are no proposals for editorials, I will propose that the period between first and second reading be reduced so that the relevant acts in the Commercial Register and the register of non-profit legal entities can be announced within the time limits laid down in the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Guys, are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities with No 902-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, dear Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Colleagues, thank you for your support. As I said, I will make a procedural proposal that the period between first and second readings under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities should be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u17	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u18	Back-up offer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u19	Mr. Chairman, I will make a reverse procedural proposal that the deadline be six days, not three, because see what happens: today is Wednesday, if we count three days, that means Thursday Friday, Saturday... Monday. Let's have the MPs... Moreover, on this bill we had no opinions. In the meantime, such may occur and the Members of the National Assembly may have to make changes to the texts, taking into account them. It seems to me that we need to give the possible deadline that they can use, so I suggest not three, but six days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u20	Got it. Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Desislava Atanasova for three days. Vote 87 MPs: 74 against 3, abstention 10. The proposal is accepted and the deadline is three days. We'll continue with the next point: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTING THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS. Importers are the national representative Alexander Ivanov and a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports will present Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u21	♪ I can't believe for the first vote The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 10 April 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 954-01-20, submitted by Alexander Koychev Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 April 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General at the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and Mrs. Silvana Perozova, Director of Finance Directorate. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by the MP Stefan Apostolov. In his exhibition Mr. Apostolov informed the MPs that the proposed Draft for Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports aims to create a mechanism on which the receipts charged by the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" can be transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and spent for the needs of physical education and sport, for maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports sites and/or sports facilities in state and municipal schools. In accordance with art. 125, para. 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, these funds are entered and stored on an account of foreign funds and cannot be predetermined in advance as they are estimated and provided during the course of the budget year. Budget relations on the administration of proceeds shall be planned as non-tax revenues and shall be spent through the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport. Mr. Asen Markov pointed out that the envisaged addition to the Law on Physical Education and Sports will regulate the transfer and spending of the funds available at the date of the entry into force of the Law from the proceeds of the State enterprise. 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act, providing for the purpose of applying the order of § 15, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, namely by carrying out by the Minister of Finance changes to the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport, insofar as these revenues and expenses were not provided for under the Ministry's budget. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports has received an opinion from the Ministry of Finance which agrees with the proposed changes. The adoption of the Law on Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sport does not impose any changes to other regulations. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u22	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor to present the Report of the Budget Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u23	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 954-01-20, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Koychev Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 April 2019. At a meeting held on 11 April 2019 the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, No 954-01-20, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Koychev Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 April 2019. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Koychev Ivanov. The proposed Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports aims to create a mechanism under which the calculated receipts by the State-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" under art. 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act on an account of foreign funds of the Ministry of Youth and Sports can be transferred to the budget and spent for the needs of physical education and sport and for maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports facilities and/or sports facilities in state and municipal schools. The envisaged addition to the Law on Physical Education and Sports will regulate the transfer and spending of the funds available at the date of the entry into force of the Law from proceeds from the state enterprise........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act, providing for the purpose of applying the order of § 15, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, namely by carrying out by the Minister of Finance changes to the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport according to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of the Public Finance Act, in so far as these revenues and costs were not provided for under the Ministry's budget. The budgetary relations for the administration of proceeds by the State Enterprise are regulated in § 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, according to which these receipts are planned as non-tax revenues, entered into the foreign funds account and spent through the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Paragraph 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act refers to art. 59b of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports, which is why continuity is required in budgetary relations related to the spending of the funds for support of physical education and sport in the Republic of Bulgaria and for maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports sites and/or sports facilities in state and municipal schools, and regulated by the repealed and new Law on Physical Education and Sports. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sport, No 954-01-20, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Ivanov and a group of MPs on 4 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. On behalf of the importers? There will be no introduction. I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! With fellow Members of the National Assembly who are importers of this bill, we would like to note that it is in terms of administration of the revenues that come from the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. As of 18 January 2019, the new Law on Physical Education and Sports, which repealed the current Law on Physical Education and Sports, is in force. The new law fully responds to the state policy in the field of development and management of the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports activities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Among the main objectives of the Law are to ensure the organization of the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-tourist activity, creating conditions for the development of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-tourist activity and providing opportunities for the development of the sports potential of the nation by creating conditions for sport practice for excellence. The main mechanism for achieving the above objectives is the financing of activities in the field of physical education, physical activity, sport and sports-touristic activity by means of the state budget, the budgets of municipalities, by means provided for in the implementation of international treaties, programmes and other sources. In accordance with art. 125, para. 1 under the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports are administered funds from subsidy, determined by the State Budget Act for the relevant year, the proceeds from the state enterprise............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act, national programs related to the activities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and others. The main part of the funds administered by the Ministry is from the proceeds of the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Analyst" under the repealed Gambling Act and continued its activities under the new Gambling Act, which has been last edited since 2017. The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer aims to raise money to support physical education and sport in the Republic of Bulgaria and to maintain, repair, reconstruction, complete restoration or creation of sports facilities and bases or sports facilities in state and municipal schools. The funds raised by the State-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" are annually included in the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, with revenues from the activities of the State-owned enterprise being spent through the budget of the Ministry under the Law on Public Finance. In accordance with art. 125, para. 3 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports the funds from the proceeds from the State Enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" are registered and stored on the account for foreign funds in the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Due to the fact that the funds formed by the order of art. 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act, can not be pre-defined, have an estimated character and are provided in the course of the budget year. You can answer yourself that no one knows for sure whether you can predict the previous year what the funds will be from the players in the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer. The budgetary relations for the administration of proceeds by the State Enterprise are regulated in § 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, according to which these receipts are planned as non-tax revenues, entered into the foreign funds account and spent through the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Paragraph 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act refers to art. 59b of the already repealed, colleagues, Law on Physical Education and Sports, which is why continuity is required in budgetary relations related to the spending of the funds for supporting physical education and sport in the Republic of Bulgaria and for maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports facilities and sports facilities in state and municipal schools, and regulated in the already repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports. The proposed bill to supplement the current Law on Physical Education and Sports aims to create a mechanism, as I said at the beginning of the presentation of the reasons, to form the administration and the mechanism by which the calculations received by the State-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" under art. 14, para. 3 of the Law on Gambling in the Foreign Fund Account of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, can be transferred to the budget and to be spent for the needs of physical education and sport as I have already listed, for maintenance, repair, construction, reconstruction and overall renovation of sports facilities in both state and municipal schools. The envisaged addition to the Law on Physical Education and Sports regulates the transfer and expenditure to the funds available on the date of the entry into force of the Law from the proceeds of the State enterprise........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act, means, providing for the purpose of applying the order in § 15, para. 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, namely by carrying out by the Minister of Finance changes to the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sport under art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 of the Public Finance Act, in so far as these revenue and expenditure are not provided for under the budget of the Ministry. Once again, I call on you, my fellow Members, from the examination of the two committees, as an importer and with my fellow importers, to think that we should support this bill at least because of the fact that the currently raised funds on the foreign income account of the Ministry of Youth and Sports cannot be spent on purpose. As you can see, in recent years the policy of the management of GERB and the Ministry of Youth and Sport has already shown results. We saw very recently how our teams won another gold medal for the combination of rhythmic gymnastics, young swordsmen, swimmers of Bulgaria, the biathlon. I think we shouldn't take too long. Since in the debates on children, youth and sport and on budget and finance in both committees, there were no proposals if you supported this bill at first reading, to propose that it be voted by the importers and by the committees to support the Bulgarian sport, except for high-sporting craftsmanship, and the mass sport, which is even more important to me, because this is the sport for the children in school and sports playgrounds, where the spirit and health of the nation is being built. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! In addition to the previous colleague, I would just like to explain to you the reasons for the legislative initiative. As we have all understood, on 18 January this year, the Law on Physical Education and Sports has been repealed and adopted the new Law on Physical Education and Sports. What are the main objectives of this law? The organization of the system of physical activity, physical education, sport and sports-touristic activity, creating conditions for the development of physical activity, physical education, the sports potential of the nation by creating conditions for practicing sport for excellence. What is the mechanism for achieving the objectives of this law? The funding of activities in the field of physical education, physical activity, sport and sports-touristic activity by means administered under the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The main part, as you have just found out, of the funds administered by the Ministry of Youth and Sports are from proceeds from the state enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer." The Bulgarian Sports Totalizer aims to raise money to support the physical education and sport in the Republic of Bulgaria and thus to maintain, repair, reconstruct, completely renovate or create new sports facilities or new facilities in state and municipal schools. The funds raised by the State-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Analyst" annually enter into the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, with revenues from the activities of the State-owned enterprise being spent through the budget of the Ministry under the Law on Public Finance. The budgetary relations regarding the administration of proceeds by the State-owned enterprise are regulated, as we understand, in § 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act, according to which these proceeds are planned as non-tax revenues, entered into the foreign funds account and spent through the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Paragraph 15 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act refers to art. 59b of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports, which is why continuity is required in budgetary relations related to the spending of the funds to support physical education and sport in the Republic of Bulgaria and to maintain, repair, reconstruction and complete renovation or creation of new objects or sports facilities in state and municipal schools and regulated by the repealed and new Law on Physical Education and Sports. The proposed bill aims to create a mechanism under which the receipts charged by the State-owned enterprise "Bulgarian Sports Totalizer" under art. 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act on an account of foreign funds of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, can be transferred to the budget and spent for the needs of physical education and sport and for maintenance, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports facilities, or sports facilities in state and municipal schools. Who are the interested groups of this bill? These are all citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria dealing with physical activity and sport, and state and municipal schools. What is the cost-benefit analysis of this bill? Namely, the adoption of the Appendix to this amendment to the Law on Physical Education and Sports will have a positive effect on all interested groups. The adoption of the Bill will provide a mechanism and order on which the proceeds from the State Enterprise will be spent by the Bulgarian Sports Totalizer and will be used to support the physical education and sport in the Republic of Bulgaria and to maintain, repair, reconstruction, complete renovation or creation of new sports sites, or sports facilities in state and municipal enterprises and schools. No additional costs for the implementation of the bill are expected. This change will not require administrative changes or the introduction of regulatory regimes and charges. The proposed bill also does not provide for structural changes... has no effect on the regulatory environment. This proposal for a change to the Bill does not require any changes to other regulations. I therefore call on you to support this change. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the main Commission, and as its President, we have examined the proposal very carefully. As expected with full consensus, without any controversy, this proposal was adopted. Once the colleague has made a long and wide explanation of what this is about, I, as President of the Commission, will only say that the change is absolutely undisputed. Of course, everyone has the right to come out and speak, but my opinion is that I do not see why there should be so much discussion at such an indisputable point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines? Here's a line, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor to make a brief reply to my esteemed chairman of the Committee on Youth and Sports precisely for being indisputable. I will call on him, his group and all colleagues in this House, if we accept at first reading, to do what is necessary and at second reading to accept it today, because the funds sitting on this account are important to be spent by the Ministry for precisely the purposes and policies of the Ministry for Youth Sports and Sports for High Sports Mastery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It didn't make sense to take the back of my colleague, but I forgot to tell you the most important thing,.... it might be nice to adopt this law at the same time on two readings. It's just that there's nothing to do, and that's why I think even Mr. Apostolov, my deputy, might come out and propose that we vote now at the same time in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the first vote the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Physical Education and Sports with Importers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The bill shall be adopted in the first vote. For a procedure please come in, dear Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we have already heard from the importers, the bill supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports, which has just been adopted in the first vote, is only one text which is indisputable and there is no proposal or addition in the Chamber. Therefore, I propose on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall take the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. I don't see any other opinion. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to the presentation of the bill in the second vote. Dear Mr. Apostolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u37	The Law on Physical Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u38	Are there any statements about the name of the Law? I won't. I will put to the vote the name of the Law on the text of the importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please proceed with paragraph one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u39	I'm the only one. Paragraph 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions establishes para. 3 and 4: For the application of art. 125, para. 3 used the current account for foreign funds under art. 59b of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports. (4) For the transfer and expense of the funds available at the date of the entry into force of the law in the account under para. 3 as well as any subsequent funds under art. 14, para. 3 of the Gambling Act applies § 15, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-17.u40	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of a single paragraph by importer. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with the committee meetings scheduled for today. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9.00 on 18 April 2019 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
