ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u1	Hello, fellow Members! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear Members of Parliament, there were eight new draft decisions yesterday for changes in permanent committees and one for changes in a permanent delegation. I propose that the new projects should be examined and voted within the framework of the already adopted item in our Programme to complete the composition of the management of the Committee on Agriculture and Foods, and that its title should become the draft decisions for amendments to permanent committees and delegation of the National Assembly, with the representatives of the National Assembly, Daniela Daritkova and Gemma Grozdanova. Please, voting mode. Vote 163 MPs: 160, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We move on to the first point for today: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS ON CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Please provide the draft for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. I'll read you the draft decision: Project! DECISION to complete the composition and management of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Maria Stereva Belova as member and chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. I'm voting on your presented Project. Vote 161 MPs: for 145, against none, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is again by the MP Daniela Daritkova. I'm reading the draft decision: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Tenev Stankov as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please, voting mode. They voted 153 MPs: 136, against 10, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is from the MPs Daniela Daritkova. I'm reading the draft decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Georgi Tenev Stankov as a member of the Defence Committee. 2. He elected Gemma Marinova Grozdanova as a member of the Defence Committee. Please, voting mode. They voted 153 MPs: 149, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is for a change in the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and is from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. I'm reading the draft decision: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Radostin Radoslavov Tanev as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 2. He elected Mitko Kostadinov Polychronov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 157 MPs: 150, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Daniela Daritkova and is for a change in the composition of the Energy Commission. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Vasil Tsvetkov as a member of the Energy Commission. 2. He elected Radostin Radoslavov Tanev as a member of the Energy Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 155 MPs: 150, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The next proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova is to complete the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Please, voting mode. They voted 145 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 6. The motion is accepted. The next proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova is for a change in the composition of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and demographic policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Lilyana Pavlova as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. 2. He elected Emil Serafimov Tonchev as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 148 MPs: 146, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova is to complete the composition of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints organisations and complaints of citizens. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please, voting mode. They voted 144 MPs: 142, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova is on a change in the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds European funds. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Gemma Marinova Grozdanova as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. 2. He elected Lilyana Pavlova as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 136, none against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The next draft decision is to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and is from the MPs Daniela Daritkova and Gemma Grozdanova. I'll introduce you to... [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, please be quiet. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u2	They're still on vacation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u3	Are you guys still doing the holiday?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u4	Colleagues, I request silence so that I do not read the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly in Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Ivelina Vasilova Vasileva as the replacement representative of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, voting mode. They voted 130 MPs: 123, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I just want to remind you that right after the legislative part, we are going to parliamentary control. Declaration on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u5	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! A healthy society is not created by institutions. A healthy society is created by children, by traditions, by values, by education of thinking generations. Only then do institutions build a state that creates great works in education, in science, in culture, in sport, in economics. Why am I saying this? Tomorrow's June 1st. ♪ Child's Day. ♪ This is a day when we remember the promises we made as adults and as a society, as a family and as children's politicians. Because the Children's Day, announced by laughter, songs adorned with balloons, is our responsibility and obligation to provide the best education, the best healthcare, the best social policy and the opportunity for the personal development of each child. Whatever we are talking about, as well as taking care of everyday life, each of our actions is directed and should be directed towards ensuring a happy childhood for everyone. If it were not so, neither we nor any other civilised and developed country would have worked continuously to address the problems of social differences, to ensure an equal chance for children with different needs and different social groups, and to ensure the preservation of national and universal values. Because only they provide the link between different generations and allow us to move forward both as a society and as a country. I will not list GERB's policies in this direction. However, I will allow myself from this tribune to say that we believe and work to have a strong education and science, because only they will help us to preserve our tradition and live in the modern world. Only they teach that freedom and the right to democracy are the fundamental rights of every person. We cannot be strong as a nation if we have destroyed family values and the rights of the family and of the child. We believe and know that without conventional standards in relationships are born gaps not only between generations, but also in society itself. In this time of rapid consumption of human emotions, it is important to teach our children to know and live on a day when the right to be happy is a law. We often talk about modern education and modern life. We still believe that it exists somewhere else, and we often send our children to look for it. We look at stubborn stubbornness in problems and often forget to look for common solutions led by our desire to argue. However, this, we know, will not make us a stable nation in which family and children are a fundamental and irreparable value. This will make our way to solving the challenge of providing high quality health care, education, career development, social security and the right to protection of every Bulgarian child in his home long and extremely difficult. Home is where our children are, and home is the one who determines how we will live and our way into the future. That's why we're so sensitive about this. So we often succumb to other people's suggestion and feel panicked that someone might harm our home. However, we should not be led by such fear, because there is no policy, no understanding, no debate to question the rights of children and family. We believe and work on the fact that our nation is obliged to protect, support and guarantee children's rights. Because only free, educated and full of personal determination for a better life young people can work for the greatness of Bulgaria. Let us not waste time on small meals, but make efforts through the relevant policies with faster steps to solve the tasks we are facing: high quality of health, high quality of education and the development of each child. Let me turn to the children and wish them a happy childhood! And we elders do not allow everyday life to forget the purity and faith in their souls! Happy Thanksgiving to all the kids! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u7	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In honor of tomorrow's holiday "June 1st, we will all stand on a tribune and greet the children of Bulgaria. All over the country will be organized celebrations, concerts and competitions. We will declare again that the largest capital of a country is its children. Today is an occasion to recall once again the Geneva Convention on the Rights of the Child, whose postulates are: the hungry child to be fed, the ill-treated, the underdeveloped to be encouraged, the misguided children to be reasonable, the orphans and the abandoned to be helped and taken away, to be prepared to be able to earn their livelihood. I don't want to politicize the holiday, but our responsibility as politicians is to be objective, to look at the facts and to tell the truth. Today Bulgaria is still the poorest European country, Bulgarian families have the lowest incomes, which affects the quality of life and their children. The per capita income is only 47% of the European Union average and the lowest for the Union. According to the annual monitoring, almost half of Bulgarian children -- more precisely 42% -- live at risk of poverty or social exclusion. There are great differences between regions with higher levels of development and lower levels of poverty and those with significantly worse indicators. There are regional inequalities in access to quality education. We're running the ranking by child mortality rate. We are still far from the national objective for the scope of children in pre-school education, with one of the main reasons being the financial barrier and high fees. Studies in recent years have also shown a trend for continuous increase in the prevalence of drug use among students in Bulgaria. The published data in 2016 show that 30% of the 15-year-old students in Bulgaria have used at least once in their life some drug. The comparisons with previous years show a gradual increase in drug use among students from 14% is now 30%, as it became clear. I can give many more such examples, and do not think that I am happy to do so. On the contrary, our concern is very great. In order to get out of this situation faster, we propose to unite around: - full state support for children in compulsory pre-school training; - creating conditions for the full-time organisation of school education in accordance with the current requirements of work and recreation; - united efforts and strict control of all institutions responsible and having obligations for the range of children in secondary education; - facilitating access to education for children in small settlements and poor families through: creating conditions up to IV grade children to study close to home through the project "Fill class" and providing conditions for healthy eating and care for the mental and health of children in each school. To overcome the negative demographic trends we propose as urgent measures: - introduction of family income tax; - working parents to receive tax benefits for each child; - introduction of differentiated VAT rates for children's foods and textbooks; - implementation of a national program for the construction of nurseries and gardens where there is a shortage; - dropping the fees for nurseries and gardens and their amount should be included in the financing of the activities delegated by the State; - compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years of insured mothers is not less than the minimum wage. These proposals are realistic and with good will they can work easily and quickly. Two years ago I finished my speech wishing to be worthy of our children, now I ask rhetorically: were we worthy of our children in recent years? Let each one give the answer for himself as a national representative. Thank you, everyone. Happy holiday to every Bulgarian child! Good luck, prosperity and prosperity for our children! [[(Voices: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We have two written answers to serve: - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question from the National Representative Plamen Manushev; - by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. Dear colleagues, I inform you that on the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Ms. Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy will answer a question from MP Tanya Todorova Petrova on the restoration of the territorial unit of the State Agency for Child Protection in Varna. Here you are, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u9	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is related to the State Agency for Child Protection. Before I make the point, I would like to point out that the activities of the State Agency for Child Protection are aimed at all children in the Republic of Bulgaria and their families. The Agency shall develop a single and coordinated state policy for child protection, monitor and control specialized institutions for raising children, support the activities of non-profit legal entities for child protection, monitor and control specialized institutions for raising children in respect of the respect of the rights of the child. The State Agency for Child Protection has been established on the basis of the Child Protection Act with the Decree of the Council of Ministers since 2000 and is a fact since 2001. It is the only specialized body of the Council of Ministers for management, coordination and control for the implementation of the state policy on activities for the protection of the child in the Republic of Bulgaria. Until January 2016 in the city of Varna was operating a territorial unit of the Agency at the General Directorate of Children's Rights. After that date, the headquarters of the department was moved to the town of Ruse. Currently in Varna there is a work space with several employees to this department. In order to optimize the processes for the implementation of various initiatives, programs and projects to protect the children of Varna and the region, and I would like to stress that the children of Varna and the region are over 100,000, is there an opportunity to restore the territorial unit of the Agency in Varna and given the increasing population of Varna district?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, on the occasion of your question regarding the restoration of the territorial unit at the State Agency for Child Protection in Varna, I inform you that with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the State Agency for Child Protection, in force from 1 February 2016, the functions of the General Directorate for Child Rights are organized in three territorial departments. From 2006 to 2016 the employees of this directorate performed their functions in six territorial departments of the Departments of Monitoring and Control. Due to the reduced numerical composition of the Directorate with these changes, it was imposed and restructuring and unification of the departments themselves, as follows: Department of Monitoring and Control "Vratsa" with Center in Sofia, Sofia, Sofia, Blagoevgrad, Pernik, Kyustendil, Vratsa, Vidin, Montana and Pleven; Department of Monitoring and Control "Sofa" with Center in Burgas and with Executive Jobs in Plovdiv for the districts of Plovdiv, Pazardzhik, Haskovo, Kardzhali, Smolyan, Burgas, Stara Zagora, Sliven and Yambol; Department of Monitoring and Control Sred with Center in the town of Varna for the districts of Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Lovech, Varna, Shumen, Razilistra and Sadistra. Visible from the above Department of Monitoring and Control is located in the city of Ruse and has jobs in the districts of Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo, Lovech, Targovishte, Varna, Shumen, Dobrich, Razgrad and Silistra. The State Agency for Child Protection has established the necessary organisation to ensure a normal working process to maintain the high efficiency and effectiveness of control activities. The Department of Monitoring and Control is with a total number of nine staff members, including the head of the department in the city of Ruse, and four exported jobs in the city of Varna. The work of the employees in the entire specialized Directorate-General for Child Rights is organized in a way that ensures mobility of the teams. For each of the departments is a secured car that allows for covering a large number of sites, as well as those in remote and difficultly accessible settlements. If necessary, dictated by a large number of sites subject to control, urgency of a check or by involving employees in other activities and inspections, employees from other departments shall be involved in carrying out checks on sites outside their territorial scope. For example, the Department of Monitoring and Control of the West with a centre in Sofia, which covers the largest district of Sofia, which has a population of over a million and a half inhabitants, consists of only seven inspectors. This often requires their inspection activities to be assisted by teams of inspectors from the units in Vratsa, Plovdiv and Ruse. This also applies to the other departments, in particular to the Department of Monitoring and Control. During the years from 2016 until now, inspectors from the town of Ruse carried out checks in Varna region and in the other neighboring districts. The head of the department is in continuous, daily telephone and e-mail contact with employees from the exported jobs in the city of Varna. Provides methodical support, strictly monitors compliance with the statutory deadlines in the work on complaints, alerts and in carrying out the checks themselves. The head of the department shall also be responsible for the overall organisation of the work in the department, for the allocation and implementation of the tasks assigned to them and the functions scheduled. The work is distributed among employees based on their acquired experience, qualifications, personal qualities, and according to their workload. The professional experience of the employees is in different areas, depending on the purpose of the respective job of law, public administration, economy, humanities, psychology, philology, human resources, information technology and others. The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Child Rights is organizing, directing, planning, monitoring and controlling the overall activity of the Directorate. The distribution of tasks between departments shall be carried out by the Director of the Directorate-General with an indication of time and method of execution, type, volume of work. The distribution shall also respect territorial competence. It should be borne in mind that since the establishment of the General Directorate for the Rights of the Child and to date, the territorial departments do not have separate proceedings. The same is centralized and located in Sofia. The unification of the two departments in 2016 does not in any way lead to a violation of the normal rhythm of work of the employees. At present the inspectors in the city of Varna are involved and actively participate in the work of the district councils and committees in the city of Varna interinstitutional workshops. In the working office in Varna there is an opportunity for daily consultation of citizens and legal entities on the ground, as well as by telephone. Employees are recognizable and actively sought for solving various problems at regional level, which are related to ensuring quality of care for children in services, as well as respect for children's rights. The increase in population in Varna region is a process monitored by the State Agency for Child Protection, and this process is a challenge for the activities of the employees of the State Agency in Varna. A serious analysis of the administrative capacity of the structure of the Agency is currently taking place, including the unit in Varna. According to the results of this analysis, appropriate management decisions will be taken to address the challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u12	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Nikolova, thank you for the answer, especially for the final sentence, because it makes sense to my question. From the final sentence I understand that after an analysis by the management of the State Agency for Child Protection, the possibility of restoring the Agency's unit in Varna is quite feasible. I believe that this will have a positive attitude in a serious work and on the part of the Varna Regional Directorate. I am convinced that the growth of the population of Varna region, including the number of children, takes the issue seriously, because in addition to control functions the State Agency for Child Protection has other functions that are described in the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Petrova, Dear Members of Parliament! Public expectations for the results of the activities of the State Agency for Child Protection are high. Although with limited capacity, including human resources, the Agency is making systematic efforts to carry out its competences. I would like to assure you that the unification of the two departments in Varna and Ruse, in one, has not led to a disruption of the rhythm of the work. The employees of the State Agency for Child Protection in Varna enjoy good public authority and trust among the citizens. They are active in their contacts with other institutions, which are related to the protection of children's rights, as well as with civil society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u16	Thank you. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control, Mrs. Nikolova. We are continuing with a question to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who will answer a question from the National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova on the Operational Programme for Food and/or basic material assistance in 2019. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u17	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is: what assistance for the most deprived persons is provided under the Food Operational Programme and basic material support in 2019? What is the progress in the implementation of the Programme as a whole? If we can get an answer, what are the results of its implementation in Burgas region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u18	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u19	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Support for overcoming one of the most significant deprivations in poor households is provided under the Food Operational Programme. Support with food packages is implemented under the Programme, and at noon, for the poorest and needy persons from designated by a regulation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy target groups. The implementation of the Programme began gradually in early 2015. Currently the activities have been deployed to the maximum extent and food support reaches the most remote settlements in the country. The Social Assistance Agency has concluded contracts under the Programme with 211 municipalities that provide a warm lunch for more than 50 thousand users. A warm lunch, including soup, a main dish and bread, is provided to people who receive monthly benefits under the rules of application of the Law on Social Assistance for wandering and homeless persons, families and lonely pensioners who have income up to the amount of the poverty line and others. Besides hot food, people also receive support in the form of various accompanying activities that help them solve daily problems and find lasting solutions to overcome their social isolation. The Programme shall also distribute food products as necessary annually. Packages contain an average of 15 types of food products. They shall be granted to persons and families assisted by targeted heating aid; persons with permanent disabilities with a certain right to foreign assistance who have personal income up to the poverty line and are assisted by a monthly supplement for social integration; families who receive support for raising children until one year of age; for students enrolled in I. class; children with permanent disabilities and those receiving benefits intended for the prevention and reintegration of children at risk. In addition, users of social services in the community and specialized institutions, as well as individuals and families who received one-off assistance for accidental needs, were included. An annual average of more than 280 thousand packages are distributed throughout the country, providing support to more than 500 thousand people and members of their families. Specifically for Burgas region. A total of 295 tonnes of food products were allocated to 21,870 persons from 7 January 2019 to 15 May this year, including their family members. The provision of a warm lunch through public dining rooms in Burgas district is realized in the municipalities of Burgas, Carnobat, Rouen, Sredets and Sungurlare, covering a total of 2520 users and the total value of the contracts concluded is 5 million. 49,000. £606. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u20	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. It is clear that the food operational programme is one of the best-managed programmes, both in terms of financial implementation and in terms of results achieved and reaching people in the most vulnerable environment. Please tell us: By the end of 2019 will next distributions of food for the country take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u22	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u23	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! During the last distribution of food products under the Operational Programme for the Support of the Most Deprived, which ended very recently on 15 May, the partner organization of the Programme "The Bulgarian Red Cross" implemented the distribution of first-rate food products in total of 7 thousand. The preparation for the next hand is underway. In answer to your question, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I can say in particular that by the end of this year there will be another distribution of food products, while public procedures under the Public Procurement Act are under way to secure the supply and subsequent distribution of food products by the end of the programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u24	Thank you. The next question is asked again by the National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova on the National Employment Action Plan. Here you are, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u25	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, according to the National Employment Action Plan, regional employment programmes are being developed and implemented. What do the programmes stand out for this year, and when are they actually due to be launched by regions?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u26	The answer is given by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u27	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In implementation of the National Employment Action Plan in 2019, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy successfully implemented procedures for the development and validation of regional employment programmes this year. In this year, regional employment programmes have been developed on the basis of project proposals by regional and municipal administrations approved by the Employment Committees to the district development councils, according to criteria taking into account the average annual unemployment rate and the average annual number of registered unemployed persons in the previous year in the municipality concerned, as well as the labour needs of employers. Depending on their needs, each municipality determines what activities should be carried out in the organization of the work.. full-time or part-time, during which months of the year to work and so on. The programmes are tailored to regional priorities in the Regional Development Strategy, regional, regional and municipal development plans and will contribute to the implementation of national priorities in the field of employment. It is expected that the 28 regional employment programmes in all areas of the country will start soon at the beginning of June. The National Employment Action Plan in 2019 provided an amount of 8 million from the budget for active labour market policy. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. lv. for funding programmes, which is 10% more than last year. The allocation of funds shall be made by means of areas based on criteria: average monthly unemployment rate, average monthly number of registered unemployed persons in the area concerned for the nine months of the previous year. The state budget funds to finance the implementation of regional employment programmes for this year amount to 8 million. 801 thousand. BGN 569, such as employers, namely regional and municipal administrations, will participate in the implementation of the programs with funds of about 250 thousand. lv. In 2019, employment will be financed for a period of three to six months by 2387 unemployed people, with 74 more compared to 2018. Of them 1847 unemployed persons, or 77% of their total number, will start working full-time and 540 unemployed persons will be involved in part-time employment. The programmes will employ priority persons from vulnerable groups on the labour market, including: unemployed young people under 29 years of age, persons over 50 years of age and long-term unemployed persons. The wage is 560 BGN. The minimum wage for full-time employment of 3,37 BGN respectively. per hour of part-time employment. The employees' contributions will be financed by funds from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for active labour market policy in 2019. The regional programmes will provide employment for the maintenance and conservation of municipal and state property activities, namely: cultural monuments; schools; kindergartens; Chitalishtes; finishing and cleaning of playgrounds; parks, alleys and recreation places; maintenance of roads; support activities in public dining rooms and pension clubs; assistance for provision in home social patronage; environmental activities and implementation of activities in the field of tourism. The implementation of regional employment programmes will continue until the end of 2019. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to implement and develop the policy of promoting employment in the regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u28	Thank you, Minister Petkov. Mrs. Zhelyazkova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u29	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, it is important that we really pay special attention to regional employment programmes because they are an example of the commitment that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has and the state to ensure employment for unemployed people. Thanks to active policy in this area, we are actually seeing a decline in the level and rates of the unemployed in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u30	Thank you. Would you like a douche? You will not take this right. Allow me to thank Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice. He will answer, first of all, a question from the MP Radostin Tanev on reforms in the penitentiary system. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Kirilov, reforming the infrastructure in the prison system definitely gives its results. The activities of the Ministry of Justice in this area are assessed well and this is shown by the assessments given by the European Anti-Torture Committee. In this regard, it is also my question: what action does the Ministry of Justice take and carry out with regard to improving the conditions of the penitentiary system on the territory of Stara Zagora district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u32	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Minister Kirilov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, it is undisputed that the development of the penitentiary system is a difficult and precise process, which by its complexity requires management based on a wide range of specific policies. The Ministry of Justice is actively working to renovate and restore prison infrastructure, and it is necessary to note that reforming the prison system is an integral part of the process of accelerated judicial reform and the successful fight against crime. Specifically for the territory of Stara Zagora district. I'll start with the newly discovered arrest on the territory of the prison, which has an area of 600 square feet. m. The construction of the existing building was carried out in particular the former furniture workshop to the prison, the necessary furniture and equipment is provided. Its capacity is 56 persons and the premises meet the requirements of the European Anti-Torture Committee to provide four square metres of area for each person detained. An open-air prison dormitory is opened to the prison in Stara Zagora and at the moment are being renovated activities of the prison dormitory in Montenegro as well as to the prison. In 2017, the building of the prison in Stara Zagora was renovated, and bathrooms were built in all facilities for the incarceration of prisoners. Parallel to this in the last few years with the funds provided by the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, the following actions have taken place on the territory of the prison in Stara Zagora: completely replaced electrical and plumbing installations; in each corridor is built a bathroom with a washbasin; the window of all household and work premises is completely replaced. After completion of the renovation activities, the capacity of the prison corps is 406 imprisoned and the corps has a renovated and timely equipped kitchen and dining room. In the last few years, a shop has been built for prisoners, a gym and a library. With regard to policies against prisoners. I would like to mention that over the past year nine specialized training programs have been implemented on the territory of the prison in Stara Zagora and have taken part in them 77 prisoners. The implementation of these programmes aims not only at re-education but also at facilitating the process of re-socialisation of convicted persons. For the academic year 2018 - 2019, 230 prisoners are included in the process of training on the territory of the prison.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tanev? There won't be a line, so there won't be a back. Is there anything you'd like to add to the answer, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u35	Yes, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u36	Here you go. However, there is such a procedural possibility... take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u37	Thank you for your procedural opportunity, Madam President. That was the data, Mr. Tenev. I would like to share with you my personal impressions of the visit and verification that I did in the prison in Stara Zagora. Indeed, within the framework of the Bulgarian penitentiary system in the prison case at the moment, the prison in Stara Zagora is a model. It is a kind of reference for the fulfilment of the requirements of law and ours under national law and those under international law. My impression is that permanent discipline is established in prison, the attitude of both security personnel and prisoners is positive. I saw in the open areas how prisoners communicate and communicate, visited the library and gym in prison, as well as the chapel where I was greeted by clergymen from the Stara Zagora Diocese. This to me indicates a lasting communication between the entire social infrastructure in the prison and the prison case. The impressive thing I couldn't read was that all the equipment of this arrest, the officers' quarters, was made in the prison itself, and I mean the furniture, not the electronics and video surveillance, of course. The truth about this arrest is that it was built with twice as much money as it was originally planned. I also share with you that this visit should actually mark the efforts of my predecessors. Work on this site has lasted more than two years with its own powers and resources, prison management has saved more than half the cost of this conversion of the former workshop currently in custody. I think this is a positive model, which should be continued by the other prison directors, who, by the way, were there and this was my first contact with the directors of the other prisons in Bulgaria. In order not to prolong the time, I'll stop here. I will leave at your disposal photos and references which I could not present to your attention, especially for this site. Thank you. [[Mister Kirilov submitted a folder to the MP Radostin Tanev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u38	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MP Iglika Ivanova Ivanova-Supreva on measures to combat domestic violence. Mrs. Ivanova, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, undoubtedly domestic violence poses a serious threat to fundamental human rights recognised by the Constitution and the laws in the country and guaranteed by the latter. On this occasion, and in order to safeguard fundamental human rights, a Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code was tabled on 24 October 2018. The law was adopted on 7 February 2019 by the National Assembly and published in the Official Journal. 16 of 22 February 2019. The amendments are still in force at present. Changes shall ensure proportionate and comprehensive criminal protection against any acts of domestic violence both over women and over men. All forms of violence have been criminalized because of the fact that they affect the most significant public relations and extremely valuable rights, such as the life and health of the individual. The qualified compositions of murder and bodily injury, incriminated are also acts by which psychological violence is systematically exercised against another person who has suffered harmful consequences for the victim. Despite the efforts of the legislator in this regard, the investigation and detection of various forms of domestic violence is extremely difficult. The reason for this is the fact that domestic violence by nature manifests itself between legal entities that are close to each other. There are no witnesses to these acts, the victim, for reasons of different nature, does not share what happened and does not refer to the competent authorities. This determines the extremely complicated nature of such situations and requires efforts to combat domestic violence to continue. In this regard, it is also my question to you, namely: what activities and policies does the Ministry of Justice apply to the fight against domestic violence?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, dear Mrs. Ivanova! Undoubtedly domestic violence is a serious social problem for the Bulgarian society as well. The Ministry of Justice is actively involved in drafting the already adopted amendments to the Criminal Code, which incriminated the consequences of domestic violence. Adopted changes qualify for a system of criminal assaults such as helping and soliciting others to commit suicide, kidnapping, illegal imprisonment, coercion, the indictment of a crime. The texts adopted aim at changing the understanding of society that domestic and mental violence are a personal matter. In connection with the implementation of the commitments of the Ministry of Justice under the National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence on 15 February 2019 a contract was concluded with the Animus Association for new funding of a national telephone line for victims of domestic violence and according to art. 6, para. 7 of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence annually under the budget of the Ministry of Justice shall be determined funds for financing projects of non-profit legal entities implementing activities under this Law to develop and implement programmes for prevention and protection against domestic violence. Chapter 3 of the Rules of Application of the Law governs the procedure for funding programmes and training. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister of Justice or an official authorised by him shall announce a call for funding of projects and programmes every year until 31 March. Projects of 17 organisations worth 360 thousand have been financed for 2018. lv. The maximum amount of the funds for the contest procedure in 2019 is within 450 thousand. lv. The activities will be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence for 2019, adopted by Decision No 5 of the Council of Ministers and by order of the Minister of Justice on 26 February 2019 was announced a contest for funding of programmes and trainings, the deadline for which was one month. According to the National Programme for Prevention and Protection against Domestic Violence, the priority objectives of funding are: Firstly, ensuring protection, recovery and reintegration of victims of domestic violence through the timely provision of quality services. Secondly, providing services for the perpetrators of domestic violence in order to prevent the recurrence of domestic violence. Third, improving policies on prevention and protection of domestic violence by carrying out monitoring and analysis on the implementation of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence in the period 2015 "Administration of the European Union' (EUSR) If I have the opportunity, Madam President, I will complete my reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u42	Thank you, Minister Kirilov. Mrs. Ivanova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am very much looking forward to you finishing your exhibition. A few months ago, I asked a similar question about domestic violence to Minister Tsacheva, because the issue is important and I believe that we should all join our efforts to combat domestic violence. Thus, thanks to our joint efforts and the intransigence of society towards all forms of domestic violence, this problem will be resolved in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ivanova. Mr. Minister, come in. You have the floor for the doppelganger and an addition to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova, for the opportunity. In view of your reply, I would like to state the following: I trust that we will continue the work on changing legislation with a view to its adaptation and more effective application to domestic violence cases. I am delighted that we have taken the first step on the amendments to the Penal Code. Currently, the working group in the Ministry of Justice is seriously progressing in terms of amendments to the Law on Combating Domestic Violence. I believe that in this way the complete package of legislative changes could be completed, which would actually implement an adequate legislative framework of the fundamental principles that are established for the protection of victims in the so-called Istanbul Convention. In order to inform both you and your constituents, I declare that the following activities will be financed by the order in which I spoke on the National Programme: programs for providing assistance to persons suffering from domestic violence, social, psychological and legal counseling; specialized programmes for persons committing domestic violence 11 draft proposals that comply with these objectives have been approved, with contracts lasting six months. I am also using the case from this tribune to express my gratitude to the partners in the work of the Ministry of Justice Association Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let me thank on your behalf Mr. Danil Kirilov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. It will answer first of all a question from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev about the adoption under Sub-measure 7.2. Dear Matsurev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, off the subject first of all I would like to congratulate you on your election as Minister of Agriculture and Food and wish you success! My question is about the adoption of Sub-measure 7.2. On the territory of the country there are 232 municipalities that fall into rural areas. During the implementation period of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 there were several admissions as candidates for investment in small scale infrastructure. In this respect, please provide me with information on how many candidates there are or what sub-measure 7.2 is due to be concluded, and how much does the approved costs amount to? What sectors and activities are mainly supported during this programming period for these municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u48	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, from the launch of the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 to the present time under Sub-Support 7.2................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In 2016, a first admission was announced as candidates with a budget following its increase of 439 million. Euros. Following the incident in the village of Hitrino and the material damage caused to the technical infrastructure on its territory at the end of 2016, a target reception was announced for this municipality in order to help restore the affected infrastructure with a budget of 10 million. Euros. In 2018, another admission by seven procedures for candidates with the residual budget of Sub-measure 7.2 of 10 million was carried out. Euros. As a result of the ongoing results of the examination of the submitted project proposals under these procedures, respectively the surplus and lack of funds on each of them, the Governing Authority has taken action to increase the funds in order to finance all project proposals for which a partial available budget is available. The estimated increase amounts to an additional amount of more than 11.3 million. EUR for the purpose of financing investments in the sectors of the streets, the Schools of Children, the Schools of Community and the Public Useplaces. Subsequently, at the receptions held, at present, the State Fund of Education has concluded contracts with candidates as follows: On the first reception, including the intended admission for the Municipality of Hitrino under Sub-measure 7.2, 330 contracts with a subsidy value total of 429 million were concluded. Euros. In 2018, seven procedures under Sub-measure 7.2 were opened and the processing of project proposals under six of the procedures has now been completed and 234 contracts with the State Fund are concluded with the amount of the subsidy of more than 70 million. Euros. We are waiting for contracts with the remaining 42 approved project proposals with a subsidy value of 212,2 million to be concluded at any moment. Euros. The receptions held so far have been approved for support activities for construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of streets and pavements; municipal roads; water supply systems; social infrastructure; sites related to cultural life; educational infrastructure; sports infrastructure; energy efficiency of municipal buildings; construction of indoor sports infrastructure in municipal schools. I will also answer the second part of the question in order to provide data on sectors and activities supported under Sub-measure 7.2 and the allocation of the budget between them. The summary reference for approved project proposals by reference and activities under Sub-measure 7.2 is as follows: 70 contracts of total approved costs of 350 million are concluded for roads. 45,000. BGN 431. This is practically the measure that has the largest budget. The next one is for water pipelines with 50 contracts signed at total approved costs 249 million. Eighty-eight thousand. £388.; for streets with 168 contracts totaling 224 million 135,000. BGN 614.; schools with 53 contracts worth 63 million 890 thousand. £326.; kindergartens with 40 contracts for 39 million 297 thousand. BGN 520.; investment in cultural infrastructure with 65 contracts concluded at a total value of 20 million 762,000. BGN 966.; the special reception for the Municipality of Hitrino has 13 contracts for 17 million. 56,000. £737.; social activities with 7 contracts for 19 million Twenty-nine thousand. £942.; sports playgrounds with 100 contracts totaling 9 million 328 thousand. £625.; gymnasiums and schools with 11 contracts of 5 million 173,000. 982 BGN, and areas of public use with 29 contracts worth a total of 19 million. 757 thousand. 73 BGN, or the total number of contracts concluded is 606. As I have already mentioned, only one procedure remains for the conclusion of 42 contracts and this is for energy efficiency. What I could add is that, according to the analysis of the implementation of the measure at the end of May under this Sub-measure 7.2, we will probably have a residual budget of just over 12 million. Euros. An analysis will be carried out on where to transfer this budget to which of the procedures so as to satisfy as many beneficiaries as possible and the most citizens can benefit from these interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u50	Thank you, Minister Taneva. Mr. Matsurev? There's no need for a line with so much information. There's probably not gonna be a double, is there, Mrs. Secretary? We continue with the next question, which is again asked by the National Representative Alexander Matsurev about receiving under Sub-measure 7.6. Here you are, dear Matsurev. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is about a sub-measure 7.6 reception. In the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 there was a reception for investments related to the maintenance and restoration of the cultural and natural heritage of the villages, where candidates can be local units of religion. In this respect, please provide me with information on the following questions: how many candidates have contracts concluded or are due to be concluded with such Sub-measure 7.6, and how much does the approved costs amount to? Is this sub-measure expected to be adopted again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u52	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Matsurev, here are some statistics. Since the launch of the Rural Development Programme 2014 Euros. As a result of the adoption, at present the State Fund...... has concluded 89 contracts with candidates of local units of religions with a subsidy value of nearly 25,8 million. Euros. In the current 2019 period, a period of adoption of project proposals under Sub-measure 7.6 with a budget under the procedure of just over 14 million is foreseen on the preliminary indicative timetable. EUR, with which the remainder of the defined budget under the sub-measure for the period 2014 - 2020. At present, the Managing Authority of the Programme has developed a Project for Guidelines for Application as well as readiness for the upcoming reception. I can say that these 89 contracts have already been paid and a subsidy to beneficiaries of 21 million. Nine hundred and sixty 465 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u54	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you have a line, Mr. Matsurev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to thank you for your information and your presentation. Indeed, this information, both for me and for my colleagues, is extremely important because it is about so much European solidarity and support for these Bulgarian municipalities that can benefit. In this regard, thank you and I wish you success from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u56	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. These were the questions to you in the framework of today's parliamentary control. Thank you for your participation. We continue with questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. He will answer first a question by the MP Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova about the implementation of the project for reconstruction of the treatment plant in the town of Tervel. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the implementation of a project for reconstruction of the treatment plant in the town of Tervel. Dear Minister, in July 2016, a contract was signed to implement one of the important projects for the municipality of Tervel, namely the reconstruction of the waste water treatment plant in the town of Tervel. The facility was built within the second phase of the Dobrudzha City Water Cycle Project. This project is one of the so-called phased projects. During the period 2007 - 2013 the linear infrastructure was implemented and the treatment plant was completed during the period 2014 - 2020. In its realization, there was a delay caused by the performer. In this regard, my question to you is: has the project been completed? How did the delay caused by the performer affect? What are the results of the purified water? Who will manage the new facility?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Mr. Minister, please answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, the implementation of the Project The waste water treatment plant of the town of Tervel, and the reconstructed water supply network have been put into operation with permission to use since 9 November 2018, and the site of the waste water treatment plant extension and reconstruction of the city of Tervel. In fact, the second authorisation is for the site of the construction of existing sewerage stations of the city of Tervel. The delay by the contractor of the site "Extendment and reconstruction of the Cleaning Station for Waste Water".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In this way, the delay in the offered quality water services for the population of the municipality of Tervel was compensated and overcome as well as opportunities for new investments in the territory of the city and increased quality of life of the population. The parameters of the purified water shall correspond to those set out in the authorisation for the use of a water site for discharge of waste and surface water from 4 July 2018 individual emission limits by streams and places of discharge. The indicators are taken into account in compliance with the requirements for sampling from the water at the entrance and exit of the treatment plant and are tested in an accredited laboratory of the Regional Inspectorate of Varna pursuant to Directive 91271. The cleaning station will be handed over for operation of the Water and Water. According to information of the beneficiary in the process of transmission are the assets built as a result of the implementation of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? You're giving me a sign that there won't be one. We're moving on to your next question, Mrs. Dimitrova. The question of the National Representative Daniela Dimitrova is about the ecological status of protected areas Shabla Lake and Durankula Lake. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u61	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is about the ecological status of protected areas Shabla Lake and Durankulak Lake. Dear Minister, in connection with the dangerous rise in water levels in the protected area of Shabla Lake in February this year lake waters were dropped in the Black Sea. This required verification by the competent authorities, including the Ministry of Environment and Water, and on 20 March you personally visited the area. You've also established the burning of vegetation in part of the protected area. As a representative from the region, I am familiar with the specifics of the area and such a topic would easily create a soil for speculation and concern among the local population. For this reason, I would like you to provide us with more information on the following issues: how it has been carried out and what reasons have imposed the release of the lake waters; is there a danger to people's lives and health due to the increased level of water in Shabla Lake; do the measures taken with the permitted measures under the management plan of the protected area; what measures do you provide for the permanent improvement of the ecological status of the protected areas of Shabla Lake and Durankulak Lake?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Dimitrova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dimitrova, reduced water exchange and non-use of pond water for irrigation results in a reduction in oxygen, respectively, in increasing the mortality of crustaceans and fish. The release of water into the Black Sea creates better conditions for biodiversity and specifically fisheries resources. Due to the lack of facilities to improve water exchange and regulate the level of lake waters at present in emergency situations, the only way to carry out this activity is by opening the lake and natural drain of water across the sandy line between the lake and the sea. We have laid down specific measures for the conservation and restoration of the ecological status of wetlands in the National plan for the conservation of the most significant wetlands in Bulgaria for the period 2013 - 2022, as well as in the plans for the management of protected areas. The implementation of these priority measures is financed through a direct grant procedure under Priority Axis 3 of the OPS 2014 - 2020, with a beneficiary Regional Inspection in the city of Varna for a total value of nearly 5 million. lv. for the Shabla and Durankula Lake, announced on 30 May this year. Specifically on the case: the increase in water levels of the lake on the territory of the protected area of Shabla Lake in recent years leads to flooding of building stock, pump stations, roads and agricultural lands within their borders. A similar problem is registered this year. In the municipality of Shabla was received a signal from the manager of the Residency "Shabla" about a dangerous increase in the level of lake waters in Shabla Lake, where buildings were affected and a danger to their visitors. By letter to the Regional Inspectorate of Varna, Shabla Municipality requested coordination under § 7 of the Law on Protected Areas for the emergency discharge of lake waters from Shabla Lake. In an on-the-spot inspection by the security guards in the protected area of RIOS, Varna was found to have flooded the ground floors of some of the buildings. The water level in them reaches from 30 to 40 cm, which is a prerequisite for their destruction. In order to avoid a potential risk to the life and health of visitors and to prevent the destruction and damage of public property, an emergency discharge of lake waters from Shabla Lake was agreed between 11 February and 15 March 2019 using specialized equipment in the northernmost part. The improvement of water exchange and the regulation of the level of lake water in emergency situations in the protected area is an acceptable activity which is not contrary to the regime defined by the Law on Protected Areas and the Management Plan. The management activities of the lake level started on 15 February 2019 and the drain has a depth of 1 m and a width of about 1 m. When carrying out a control check by RIOS employees "Varna," on 24 February 2019 it was found that due to the natural drainage of the water a channel was formed in the sand strip about 10 meters wide and the water level was pulled back about 10 meters from the lake. To date, the lake has restored its full volume, has restored the hydrological regime of the natural state of the lake's water areas, ensuring the full operation and use of wetlands by the representatives of the ornithofauna and ichthiofauna. By letter the Institute of Fisheries and Aquaculture in Plovdiv informed RIOS A JPS device was filmed on 21 March 2019 with a non-compliance in the location of the emergency escape from the Shabla Lake, agreed by the Regional Inspection and the actions carried out by the local authorities. For failure to comply with the prescription given by RIOS Varna, the mayor of Shabla Municipality has been drawn up an act of administrative infringement under the Environmental Protection Act and a criminal decree has been issued. Perhaps in addition to saying that there is also a case filed in the prosecution, which has not been initiated for lack of grounds under the Penal Code. That's basically the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for a line or attitude to the answer. Here you go, Mrs. Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u65	Mr. Minister, the questions were important to all the residents of the area I represent, and I sincerely thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u66	Thank you. The line probably doesn't require a duplicate. Let's move on to the next question. It is from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev and refers to the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 "2020" for the construction of anaerobic installation for separate collection of biodegradable waste. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question is on the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" for the construction of anaerobic installation for separate collection of biodegradable waste. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Environment and Water signed a contract under the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - 2020" for the construction of anaerobic installation for separately collected biodegradable waste in the municipalities of Blagoevgrad, Simitli, Boboshevo, Kocherinovo and Rila. The project is extremely important for the region and in this regard my question to you is: what objectives of the waste management policy in the country do you expect to achieve with the implementation of the project and what is its scope? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u68	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question of the National Representative Alexander Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u69	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, on 17 December 2018, a grant agreement was signed for the project and implementation of a anaerobic installation for separate collection of biodegradable waste and for the regional waste management system of Blagoevgrad region with beneficiary Municipality Blagoevgrad. The total amount of the investment amounts to 36,4 million. lv. The grant financial assistance of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" "2020" amounts to 3,1 million. lv. The duration of the activities shall be 40 months. The large-scale project plans to design and build anaerobic installation for separate collection of biodegradable waste, which will serve the municipalities of Blagoevgrad, Simitli, Rila, Kocherinovo, Boboshevo, and for this purpose a Regional Waste Management System is established. The location of the site where the installation is intended to be built is located in the area of Celinite in the village of Balgarchevo, Blagoevgrad district with an area of nearly 60 acres. The project supports the state waste management policy, which focuses on the integration of new environmentally and economically sustainable methods, where from biological waste everything that can be used for recycling to become energy, raw materials for industry, fertilizer for plants and in the built landfills to depopulate the minimum amount of waste. The plant for anaerobic treatment of separately collected biodegradable waste provides additional capacity for recycling and recovery of waste, thus making a significant contribution to achieving the objectives of reducing the quantities of recyclable and biodegradable waste. The planned total capacity of the installation as of 2021. This is the year in which it is expected to be put into service, it is 15 819 tonnes per year and will serve the generated waste of a total of 100,000 people. The construction of the anaerobic installation will contribute to the high level of waste management in the municipalities of the Regional Waste Management System, according to the hierarchy in their management laid down in the legislation in force: the reduction of the amount of waste released by its construction, as well as the promotion of its recycling and recovery; the organisation of separate collection, recycling and recovery of biodegradable waste; the processing and treatment of biodegradable waste in an environmentally safe manner; the implementation of the achievement of the national objectives set out in the legislation in force, as well as the involvement of broad circles of society in the separate collection and management of waste in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would first like to thank you for your comprehensive response. This project is indeed extremely important for the region and for these municipalities. I am sure that the answer you have given will be quite useful to the population, for their information, for which I thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary? You won't complete the answer. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the MP Petar Hristov Petrov. The question is about the start of dangerous draining of the dam. Dear Mr. Petrov, please proceed with the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was prompted by the fact that I was approached by voters from my electoral district. Sliven Region, for a re-order from the Ministry of Environment and Waters for the start of power supply of hydropower plants under the dam "Zhrebchevo" with water, something that was terminated after the intervention of the Vice-President of the Commission for Agriculture and Food Mr. Yordan Apostolov and my mercy. With this issue we raise an important topic for Bulgaria and it is that the water balance in the country is lost annually, according to the reference I made for 2017, nearly 1 billion. Cube. m of water. They are lost in all kinds of criminal ways, such as the case in the Dreybevo, which I suppose is also the case. My question to Mr. Nenov is: is the Ministry of Coordination and Control, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Energy, where necessary, on the level and state of strategically important for the natural environment and economics internal water basins, and in particular on Zhrebchevo Dam? What measures will the Ministry for Environmental Protection and Waters take to stop the draining of the dam, in the direction of water plants and to gradually fill it with water until the beginning of the watering season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Petrov! According to the provisions of the Water Act, the management and distribution of water from complex and significant dams under Annex 1 shall be carried out on the basis of monthly schedules validated by the Minister of Environment and Water for the use of water from those dams in accordance with acquired permits. The coordination between the departments concerned with the use and management of the dams, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, is carried out daily by providing information on the balance of revenue-cost and the volumes available in these dams, as well as providing requests for the required volumes of water required for use in the following month. When allocating volumes in monthly schedules, the priorities set out in the Water Act are respected, i.e. I start from the highest downsizing of drinking targets, agricultural targets, others, including industrial targets, and hydropower. For the implementation of the monthly schedules, as well as the conditions set in them, monthly controls shall be carried out. In the event of detected infringements, the competent authority, namely the Swimming Directorate, shall draw up acts and criminal decrees. Since the beginning of 2019 four acts have been drawn up for the identification of administrative violations and eight criminal decrees have been issued for violations committed in 2018, for the dams With regard to the problems identified in the distribution of water from the dam.. Zhrebchevo. between water users and protection the rights of each permit holder MOEW took the following actions: modification of the irrigation permit, the limit of the annual water used was reduced by 152 million. Cube. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Cube. m due to the reduction of real irrigated areas; the development of management curves and rules for the distribution of water from the dam is entrusted with the development of management curves and rules for the distribution of water from the dam. Our expectations are that within three months it will be completed, which will introduce the new management method based on current data. In cooperation with the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, actions have been taken to determine a protective level of aquaculture to ensure the minimum permissible depth occupied by network cages, i.e. the drains. These protection levels for each individual site shall be determined by order of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture in accordance with the provisions of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. It's operational. In the second half of April, given the forecast of the National Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology for expected intense precipitation in the period 13 April, and in order to maintain the level of the dam, the production of electricity is allowed without significant amplitudes to provide up to 31 May of favourable conditions during the breeding season of the fish. In May, it was provided that the dam level should be maintained without significant amplitudes and allowed electricity to be used and processed evenly at a dam volume of more than 175 million. Cube. m. As of 14 May 2019 the water supply for electricity from the dam has ceased as the volume has been reduced below these 175 million. Cube. m. By amending the schedule of 20 May, water for irrigation for the remaining period of the month has been reduced due to the fact that the requested water has not been used until the second 10 days of May. In June, in order to ensure the irrigation season for 2019, the schedule does not provide for the use of water for electricity production. Given that as of 29 May 2019 the personal volume of the dam is 175,8 million. Cube. M, we believe that irrigation in 2019 is guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Petrov, you have the opportunity to reply and comment on the answer to be heard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I see a lot of concern on your part about the sites that are strategically important. I mean, to a significant extent, I think it's about criminal draining the dams. The irrigation we are talking about is really important, but it does not mean that it will fill the dams by reducing the volumes of water they will use in irrigation systems. I would also like to stress that in the production of fish, Bulgaria is last in the European Union. This draining and uneven maintenance of the dam level leads to investor concerns and they do not make the relevant investments. As you know, the fish and marine work programme has been implemented at level 6 - 7%, now it has risen slightly. This leads to major economic losses, and my conversations with the people who deal with fish production are that they do not invest money because they have fear of the stability of their business then and the great losses they will realise. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I have been approached by the Union of Sports Fishing, which are also concerned by the levels of the dams, the 175 million. Cube. For example, there are 40% of the volume. I would be satisfied if the Ministry really did so and within three months took urgent measures to end the draining of the dam to appear a healthy, unshakable level, level meters, the water not falling below them would calm all people. Thank you for your answer, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u78	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Would you like to supplement your answer, Mr. Minister? Here you go. We're listening to your ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, you are absolutely right. The Ministry of Environment and Water is trying to find a balance between all those who are interested, because when we talk about investors, we need to know that there are more than one type of investors. But actually, each of these dams has a purpose. We're talking here, first of all, about irrigation. I therefore stressed that we should basically ensure the irrigation season in 2019. For your information only, at 10 o'clock today at the Ministry of Environment and Water, a meeting was started on this issue with all responsible institutions and all interested in the reservoir of Zhrebchevo and the fish producers and the farmers involved, in particular the Irrigation Systems, and the energy producers in order to seek out exactly that balance from which the balance between different needs can be found. Again, with focus on ensuring irrigation in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Neno Dimov is from the MPs Borislav Ivanov Borisov and Stanislav Stoyanov on measures to improve the quality of the air with environmental public transport. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our question is about measures to improve the quality of ambient air with environmental public transport. Dear Minister, in this regard I would like to ask: after you have declared air quality as your priority for this term, this is also a topic that affects all Bulgarian citizens, so the management policy of this sector should be a priority, planned and consistent, in your participation in parliamentary control, including a hearing in the National Assembly, you have informed us of the progress in implementing the policies and measures to improve air quality in the country. I can point out that the Ministry of Environment and Water has shown strong willpower and achieves very good results for us to breathe fresh air. However, it is very important that work in this direction continues at the same pace and that every resource available should be used for the benefit of the people. During the past year, seven municipalities received the entire provision of 110 million. lv. under Operational Programme "Environment" for measures related to domestic heating. Then you committed to looking for additional resources to support the Bulgarian municipalities. What are the funds you were able to draw in this direction to date? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, dear Minister. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable gentlemen Ivanov and Borisov! A procedure is underway, measures to improve air quality under Priority Axis 5 lv. The eligible candidates are municipalities with impaired air quality "Bourgas," Vidin, Dimitrovgrad, Montana, Plovdiv, Smolyan and Sofia municipality. The procedure aims at reducing the normal levels of fine particulate matter from household heating. At the same time, the implementation of the projects will contribute to the implementation of the country's commitments in relation to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union to reduce the standards of fine particulate matter content in the ambient air. At present, contracts have been concluded with the municipalities of Montana, Sofia and Burgas for a total of 68 million. lv. The project proposals of the municipalities Dimitrovgrad, Smolyan and Plovdiv are evaluated. The municipality of Vidin is also expected to submit its project proposal within a deadline that actually expires today. For its efforts in this year, the Ministry of Environment and Water is actively seeking new opportunities to achieve the set targets in order to improve air quality. In this regard, the preparation of a new procedure addressing transport as a source of air pollution is under way. The procedure aims at protecting the environment by improving the characteristics of public transport vehicles, replacing obsolete and depreciated vehicles with new, meeting regulatory emission standards. Within the procedure, the purchase and supply of new modern electric vehicles for municipal transport will be supported, leading to a reduction of harmful emissions to air, a reduction in noise and vibrations and significant energy saving. The purchase and delivery of electric buses, trolleybuses and trams and charging stations are envisaged as eligible activities. The eligible beneficiaries of the procedure are municipalities with impaired quality of the air in partnership with municipal enterprises or companies that provide a service for public transport of passengers in the territory of the municipality concerned. These are: Burgas, Varna, Vratsa, Pernik, Pleven, Ruse, Sliven, Stara Zagora, Sofia Municipality, Haskovo and Shumen. The indicative value of the grant is 390 million. lv. In addition, taking into account the importance of the problem of over-pollution with fine dust from household heating and the need to address it, a re-appliance of a procedure is set for improving ambient air quality. The indicative value of the grant is 80 million. lv. It is aimed at an additional number of municipalities with impaired air quality. Action should be taken on the announcement of the procedure after obtaining the first preliminary results of pilot procedures, which will ensure that the measures of these needs need a maximum effect is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-31.u84	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Are any of the importers gonna take any chances? Mr. Ivanov? No. This was the last question of today's work programme. With this, we have exhausted the weekly work programme of parliament. The next regular session of parliament is on 5 June 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
