ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for May 11, 2019: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers scuse the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov, 13 June 2018. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons in the Automated Processing of Personal Data. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 5 August 2019 3. Annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 Importer 4. Second vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importer supplier Aleksandar Sabanov, 6 August 2019. Adopted first vote on 5 September 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 12 September 2019 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 23 July 2019, item 2 for Thursday, 12 September 2019 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 15 July 2019. Adopted at first vote on 4 September 2019, item three for Thursday, 12 September 2019. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 5 August 2019, item 1 for Friday, 13 September 2019 8. Parliamentary control. Colleagues, I'm making a point here. 3 - Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 By decision of the Conference of Presidents, we will read the reports today. There are still reports from the Defence Committee, Mr. Lazarov's Commission and the Health Committee to meet today. Tomorrow we will continue reading the reports of these committees, the debates and the vote on this point. Please vote on the proposed agenda with the clarification I have made. Vote 162 MPs: 122 against 1, abstention 39. The decision's been made. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Daritkova, wait for the oath of the MP and I will give you the floor of procedure. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 997-NS Sofia, 7 September 2019 amending Decision No 895-NS of 5 September 2019 In a letter, in a letter. Decision of the National Assembly of 4 September 2019 was received in the CEC on 5 September 2019, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Ivan Kirov Genov as a MP from the Sixth Election Region of Vrachanski, erected from the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria..................................................................................... The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Ivan Kirov Genov. Following a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria is Tsvetan Minkov Ralcovski. By Decision No 985-NS of 5 September 2019 the CEC declared it a Member of the National Assembly. In an additional check in the National Database "Population" it was found that the person had died, which is why it is necessary for the Central Election Commission to change Decision No 985-NS of 5 September 2019 by announcing the next candidate on the list of Coalition "BSP" for Bulgaria "Atanas Marinov Popdimitrov." In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Changes Decision No 985-MI of 5 September 2019 as follows: Announces Atanas Marinov Popdimitrov with EGN... as MP in the Forty-fourth National Assembly from the list of coalition BSP for Bulgaria I ask the Quaestors to invite the People's Representative to take an oath. Colleagues, please stand at the oath. Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u3	Congratulations! [[Applause.]] Mrs. Daritkova, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal regarding yesterday's briefing of the Prosecutor's Office to be heard in the National Assembly the President of the National Assembly and the Minister of Interior and due to the great public interest to present up-to-date information on the topic to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u5	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, let's come to Parliament to the gentlemen mentioned by this tribune, but here in Parliament should come the Prime Minister as also responsible for the national security of Bulgaria [[noise and lines]] To brief us on this information they have in government, and we don't have it in parliament. When sensitive to this information, the doors of parliament may even be closed. Please also invite him to the National Assembly to give information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I will inform the persons about the proposal to participate in today's Parliament meeting to provide up-to-date information. Bills and draft decisions were put in place. A bill to protect the rights and interests of the elderly. Importer of the People's Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers - Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importers Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers "Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the event of sporting events. Importer Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2017 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Decision supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer "Cornelia Nino" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Communication: in relation to the applications received and registered on 4 September 2019 by the National Representative Yavor Notev, the National Representative Margarita Nikolova, the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov and the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov for leaving the Parliamentary Group.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 5, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall be released early upon leaving the parliamentary group that proposed them. On this basis the people representative Yavor Notev was released as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Second, according to art. 23, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Vice-Presidents of Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the parliamentary group of which a quota has been selected in the Committee. On this basis Margarita Nikolova was released as Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov as Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Finance and National Representative Stanislav Stanilov as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media. In accordance with art. 5, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be announced in these cases without discussing and voting. Communication: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of aircraft with crews from the Air Force for the performance of flights to provide air transport to groups of servicemen from the formations in Graff Ignatievo by route from the Sofia Airport, Graff Ignatievo Airport, Bethanynitsa Airport, Republic of Serbia, Sofia Airport, on 9 September 2019 and back on 13 September 2019 and on 24 September 2019 and back on 27 September 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. Second, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of the Plan for the preparation of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019 between 30 September and 4 October 2019 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria there will be training of forces and means for anti-aircraft defence, for operation in conditions of radio electronic interference. In this regard, for the period from 29 September to 4 October 2019 he has authorised the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of servicemen of the NATO Centre for Radio Electronic War with equipment for creating interference. The training is not related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military activities conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. Third, for the period from 8 to 20 September 2019 will be held a tactical exercise with the 101st Alpine regiment of Rodopi in the area of Smolyan. The training will be attended by soldiers, equipment and equipment of the Ministry of Defence and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, Joint Force Command, Land Armed Forces, Armed Forces, Armed Forces and Equipment, Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria and personnel providing and serving funds, formations from Austria, Romania, the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic with state weapons, military supplies, equipment and the necessary equipment and the NATO Research Centre, building and improvement of NATO's capabilities for carrying out the Mountain War in the town of Polche Slovenia. The participation is on the line of the European Union initiative for unification and sharing in the field of military training and is not linked to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carry out activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notifications were received on 3 and 4 September 2019 respectively with input numbers from 903-09-53 to 903-09-55 and provided to the Defence Committee. And the last communication: on 9 September 2019 by letter of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the programming budget of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 30 June 2019. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Nunev. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u8	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018. At its meeting held on 19 September 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov from the Ministry of Interior and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria (NSORB) - Blagoj Stanchev, Parliamentary Secretary. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov. In their exhibition, importers noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration are aimed at building municipalities of control units as a legal opportunity under the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and of the mayor of the municipality relating to the protection of public order, the conservation of municipal property, the organization of movement in settlements and other activities regulated in the regulations. The employees of these units will support the control and administrative criminal activities of the municipality. The norms in the Bill are not imperative. They create a legal opportunity for municipalities to increase the effectiveness of their control activities. The bill confers powers on employees to require an identity document for offenders, to draw up alert protocols, to temporarily restrict the right to move an intruder until the police authorities appear and to serve prescriptions to remedy the infringement. The new powers will not lead to additional burden on municipal budgets, as in most of the municipalities there are municipal units for control and conservation of municipal property. However, the bill creates conditions for a more effective implementation of the activities of these units and also for an increase in revenues from the fines and penalties imposed. The envisaged changes also do not cancel the possibility of municipalities having resources to use the structure of the Municipal Police (SOC) under the Ministry of Interior Act for more complex and complex tasks which require the implementation of police functions. It is envisaged by an act of the Council of Ministers to determine the order and operation of the established local committees in public order and security. The proposal for a legal norm for these committees will make their activities more sustainable and, at the same time, create prerequisites for better coordination and cooperation with other existing authorities, such as traffic safety, anti-social manifestations of minors, drugs, precursions, human trafficking and others. In order to improve the traffic situation in the settlements, the Bill provides for an amendment and an addition to the Road Traffic Act for the accelerated construction of a network of technical tools and systems for control and surveillance in the settlements. To this end, the Final Provisions of the Bill offer the possibility of controlling the roads in the settlements to be carried out by the municipal authorities. The use of these traffic control systems is based on their self-financing from the fines collected, as well as the accumulation of funds from other sources to extend their application. The aim is to increase the effectiveness of control activities and improve the safety of traffic in settlements. The introduction of more technical tools and control systems for breaking traffic rules is the creation of the possibility of accelerated construction of intelligent transport systems, the integration of modern communication and information technologies and automation of transport infrastructure, vehicles and road users. Municipalities are expected to significantly increase the number of technical means, and this will reflect the effectiveness of combating road accidents and accidents. It was stressed that the Law achieves benefits in the field of prevention, as well as a new motivation to increase revenues for solving important public problems in the municipalities. Special training of municipal employees is also envisaged. The discussion was attended by Mr. Blagoy Stanchev, Secretary of NSORB, who added that the employees in the municipalities will be empowered to better perform their duties. The Commission has received an opinion from the Ministry of Interior supporting, in principle, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and proposing the revision of the norms. There is also an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, in which they note that the bill is the result of the multi-annual cooperation in its development between NSORB, the Ministry of Interior and the importers. They strongly support the bill. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, 6 votes against the Council of Ministers, and without votes, Mrs. Veselinov and Mr. Emil Hristov proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and Mr. Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. The opinion of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications follows. You are welcome to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 26 September 2018, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration was discussed, No 854-01-53, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Commissioner Rosen Rapchev. The bill provides for amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, which create a legal opportunity, not an obligation for municipalities to build control units for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality related to the protection of public order, the conservation of municipal property, the organization of movement in settlements and others. The employees of these units are proposed to support the overall control and administrative criminal activity of the municipality, the preservation of ownership and order regulated in the regulations. To that end, they shall be given the minimum necessary powers: 1. require a document of identity of citizens in the event of an infringement; 2. draw up warning protocols; 3. temporarily restrict the right of free movement of a person to the arrival of the police authorities when caught on the spot to commit infringement or damage of municipal property, or by its conduct violates order, or exposes his or her life or the lives of other persons to manifest danger; 4. to issue prescriptions for the removal of a committed infringement. According to importers, the proposed changes will create conditions for improving the control and administrative criminal activity of municipalities and will not result in additional burden of municipal administrations, respectively, on their budgets. The Final provision of the Bill provides amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act. According to the reasons, one way to improve the traffic situation in the settlements is to speed up the construction of the network of technical means and systems for control and surveillance in the settlements. For this reason, the Final provision of the Draft Law offers the possibility for this type of control in the settlements to be granted to the municipal authorities. The use of these systems is based on self-financing and the accumulation of new funds to expand their application elsewhere. The aim is to increase the effectiveness of control activities and improve the safety of traffic in settlements. The introduction of a larger number of technical resources will generate additional funds that municipalities will collect and invest in improving the security and safety of citizens. The revenues from the collected fines from automated technical means and systems will be entered into the municipal budget and thus the provided additional state for work in this direction will be self-financed and will not further burden the municipality's budget. The Commission has received an opinion from the Ministry of Interior, which supports, in principle, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Authorities and proposes the clarification of some of the norms. An opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria was also received, expressing support for the proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Authorities. In its opinion, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works notes that there are no proposals under the Law. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Svilenski, Dimitar Danchev and Halil Letifov. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes for the Council, 1 vote abstention and 4 votes against the National Assembly, proposed to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. They have the floor for the introduction of the bill. Mr. Veselinov, welcome to present the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov At a regular meeting held on 20 September 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov on 13 June 2018. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Mr. Krassimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mr. Blagoy Stanchev, Secretary of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Emil Hristov. The proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration create a legal opportunity, not an obligation for municipalities to build control units for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality related to the protection of public order, the conservation of municipal property, the organization of the movement in the settlements and others. The employees of these units will support the overall control and administrative criminal activity of the municipality, the preservation of ownership and the order regulated in the regulations, giving them the minimum necessary powers for this purpose. The proposed changes will create conditions for improving the control and administrative criminal activity of municipalities in the implementation of the local legal framework................................................................................................ The new powers will not lead to additional burden of municipal administrations, respectively, on their budgets. In general, these activities will be carried out, as so far, by the existing municipal units for control and protection of order and municipal property. The bill creates conditions for the effective implementation of the work of control functions units, with municipal revenues expected to increase from fines and penalties imposed on infringements. There are also prerequisites for improving measures for the conservation of municipal property, including public infrastructure. In practice, so far, some municipalities have used private security companies to guard municipal property. An obstacle to the wider application of such practice, on the one hand, is the price of these services. On the other hand, in very few cases municipalities using private security companies give up their services due to their low quality, as well as the inability to exercise direct operational control over the activities of performers. The legal changes provided do not cancel the possibility of municipalities wishing and having the necessary resources to use the structure "Community Police" under the Ministry of Interior Act for complex public order tasks, taking advantage of the full police powers of the relevant employees. The Final provision provides amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act, allowing municipalities to exercise better control of road safety in the settlements. The bill is supported by the National Association of Municipalities, which are also the main initiators for the design and submission of the project. A positive opinion was also expressed by the Ministry of Interior and some proposals were made in writing to refine the provisions of the Bill. During the discussion the MPs supported the proposed changes. On the part of individual MPs, the concern was expressed that by providing municipal employees with additional functions proposed in the project are possible abuses, which is why they will not support it in the first vote. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes in favour, 1 vote in opposition and 3 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. We move on to the opinion of the importers. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The development of the proposed changes began a long time ago after the adoption of the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, when it was found that these legal changes did not help municipalities to benefit from them and to effectively fulfil their public order security obligations and the protection of municipal property. The draft draft was repeatedly agreed with the Ministry of Interior 2012 in 2014, 2016 and in January 2018 at its meeting the Management Board of the Association of Municipalities decided to support the Bill unanimously, supported by the mayors of municipalities. For our part, representatives of the National Assembly and we as importers, on 14 March 2018 in the National Assembly initiated a broad forum with the participation of the presidents of the leading committees, of the Association of Municipalities, of the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils, Mayors and representatives of other municipalities. The aim of the Bill is to complement and extend existing legal opportunities for public order control and compliance with the municipal council regulations, the mayor's orders and the preservation of municipal property in the municipality. In the activities of municipalities in the control of the implementation of local regulations, administrative criminal activity, security of municipal property and control of parking, a major problem is the lack of adequate powers of municipal employees. In most cases, in the exercise of their control functions they are forced to carry out joint checks together with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to use their powers to at least identify the intruder by requiring his identity card, which is a basic prerequisite for the initiation of administrative criminal proceedings. Even when there is an invasion of municipal property before their eyes, the only thing municipal officials can do is organise and alert police authorities and wait for their arrival. In many cases, however, there is a shortage of uniformed police staff, especially in small towns. The opportunity created in 2009 in the municipalities to support their activities in this area by establishing a unit of the Municipal Police on the basis of a contract with the relevant regional director of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate proved to be of limited applicability due to the high cost of the maintenance of a police officer of the unit. This can be declared on the ground by mayors and representatives of municipal councils, so at the moment only 9 municipalities in the country have benefited from this opportunity. The proposed amendments to the Law create a legal opportunity, not an obligation for municipalities to build control units for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council and the mayor of the municipality related to the protection of public order, the conservation of municipal property, the organization of movement and control of the movement in the settlements. The employees of these units will support the overall control and administrative criminal activity of the municipality, the conservation of ownership and the order regulated in the regulations. To that end, they shall be given minimum necessary powers such as: 1. To require an identity document for citizens in the event of an infringement; 2. draw up warning protocols; 3. temporarily restrict the right to free movement of a person until the arrival of the police authorities when caught on the spot to commit an infringement or damage of municipal property, or by its conduct violates the order or exposes the life or life of other persons to manifest danger; 4. To issue prescriptions for the removal of the infringement committed. Honourable Members, during the deliberations in the committees, questions were raised concerning precisely these four powers, which are proposed to be replaced by the staff of the security authorities of the municipalities. A number of reasons, arguments and arguments have been highlighted. However, for the record, I will make a comparison to you that in the Private Security Activity Act 2004. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 30, 32 and 34, these powers are given to private guards. In the Private Security Activity Act of 2018 In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 56, 58 and 59, these powers that we propose to be of municipal officials exist. Unargued is the challenge of granting these powers to municipal officials. Since we can give similar powers to private guards, I think it is quite natural, understandable and normal for them to be inherent to the employees of the municipal administration. The proposed changes will create conditions for improving the control and administrative criminal activity of municipalities in the implementation of local regulations. These activities will be carried out, as so far, by the existing municipal control units and in order to protect the order of municipal property. These are the municipal enterprises. Inspectorates, for example for parking control, and so on. The bill creates conditions for more effective implementation of the work of control functions units, with municipal revenues expected to increase from fines and penalties imposed on infringements. Particularly important in this case is the preventive effect.. There will be a control of administrative employees on the terrain. Municipalities, which consider that they have a need and opportunity, will be able, after a corresponding decision of the municipal councils, to create more such units. There are also prerequisites for improving measures for the conservation of municipal property, including public infrastructure. In practice, so far, some municipalities have used private security companies to guard municipal property. An obstacle to the wider application of such practice, on the one hand, is the price of these services, and, on the other, in very few municipalities using private security guards and companies, they give up their services due to their low quality and the ability to perform direct operational control of the activity of the contractors. The legal changes provided do not cancel the possibility of municipalities wishing and having the necessary resources.. mostly financial, to use the structure.. Municipal Police............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the same time, the functioning of these municipal units with their new powers will enable the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to concentrate their efforts on other more important tasks such as: domestic crime, drug distribution, antiterrorism, security of mass events and others. In the same way, the municipalities that created the Municipal Police units under the Ministry of Interior Act will be able to use the police officers employed for other basic actions by exempting them from the control of the implementation of local regulations. The Final provision provides for amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Act. The National Strategy for the Improvement of Traffic Safety during the 2011-2020 period adopted by the Government by Decision No 946 of 22 December 2011 sets a specific objective in line with the European Union guidelines by 2020 to reduce the number of victims of traffic accidents by 50% compared to 2010 data, with their estimated to be below 400 by 2020. It is important to mention that a positive and important preventive role in reducing high road transport traumatism is largely due to the 2009 re-arrangement of road traffic control authorities with fixed and mobile automatic cameras. One of the roads for improving the traffic situation in the settlements is the accelerated construction of a network of technical tools and systems for control and surveillance in the settlements. To this end, the Project's Final Provision offers the possibility for this type of control in the settlements to be provided to road owners in the settlements, i.e. municipal authorities, who are actually directly involved in the whole process related to financing, building, development, maintenance and operation of the relevant systems, including processing of information generated by them on the detected infringements, notification of the addressees and collection of the relevant fines, which should be received as local revenue to the municipality concerned. Colleagues, in practice these amendments are part of the decentralisation process, firstly, in the field of governance and control and, secondly, in financial terms. They allow for an increase in municipal own revenues while increasing the importance of local self-government bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. We are moving on to a debate on the Draft Law two requests have been made so far. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear importers, only a year ago you tried to implement this law and quite legitimately you met resistance. Now, on the eve of the local elections, you are trying to create additional levers for the eternal implementation of your authority in the municipalities through personal mayor's pretorians. The proposed changes create a prerequisite for the emergence of power structures under the mayors' personal mandate to impose repressive methods on their power capacity. Can you imagine a mayor like Tsenko Chokov fulfilling this law? Behind this law is hidden and the inability to fulfill the election promise of the government for permanent police presence in every settlement. It also demonstrated another withdrawal of the State from its functions to secure security and public order through the Ministry of Interior. This law will put the mayor's personality above the law. How do you imagine, for example, a representative of this structure, of this unit in the role of a penalizing wrongfully parked mayor to whom it is actually directly subordinate? I don't even want to think about the role of these structures during elections, given the overwhelming presence of mayors from two political forces, each with its specifics of power parameters in the different municipalities. A while ago, you tried to transform a government structure into a second Ministry of Interior. I am referring to the military police, betting on her in the Law of Uncontrollable Rights. You have also tried by changing the Private Security Act to create a special approach to ensuring public order and security in the country, which would actually bring us back to the mid-1990s. The jury of the Supreme Administrative Court was put at the end of this, announcing the texts of the Private Security Act as contrary to the Constitution. The reasons for attacking these texts were argued by the importer: at the legal level, an unlimited impact by private guards on living in settlements is allowed, whether it is about carrying out actions affecting privacy, property, the exercise of political rights, economic actions or other. Now you are making an attempt again to create private mayor power structures at the expense of municipal budgets, but through another law. I am absolutely against this bill. It is another stage of your plan to reduce the capacity of the Ministry of Interior to its full delicification by transforming its activities and responsibilities towards parastructures or private formations. This is not an increase in the role of local self-government, but a mechanism for full control by local government over the population. Where is the border between ensuring the security of citizens, public order, the movement of motor vehicles and the enforcement of all municipal regulations? The so-called blue zones, ladies and gentlemen, are as an example of such out of control over the citizens. From a mechanism for regulation of the movement has become a trend for a ubiquitous municipal tax on the territory of the city for now in a project, but probably very soon it will be a fact. And again this will be carried out by this newly created structure, which will completely outsource the activities of the Ministry of Interior, but on the back of citizens with all fines, sanctions and fees. In the upcoming elections, it is time for citizens to wake up and give their voice to resist what your so-called local authority is doing to them. I believe that you will not be able to impose this legal arbitrariness, despite the vote here, because the texts will drop again as contrary to the Constitution. To all your attempts to replace legitimate state structures that are in the service of taxpayers, I vote and I will vote against....................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. The word is Mr. Ali, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms group will vote against this bill because we are worried about several accents that are set out in the Bill. The colleague before me also mentioned some of them, so I will not dwell specifically on the details that were spoken earlier. Honourable Members, we are talking about decentralisation of the power in the settlements "maybe this word will already be used as inadequate. Here says Mr. Hristov, you said: "In this way we decentralize the power and give powers to the mayors. This is not about any decentralisation, honourable Members. When we talk about decentralisation, it is not just about giving rights, powers and imposing certain obligations on mayors, but we also have to provide them with funds from the state budget if we want to have such units that, in the real sense, do their job. We've already had some experience with municipal police. What did you get? The cost for a municipal police officer who needs to be equipped, dressed, who needs to be trained in specialized institutions or in the Ministry of Interior is BGN 24 000. per year. At one point only and only 266 municipalities in Bulgaria 9 municipalities benefited from this law. Why couldn't the other municipalities create municipal police? It is because of this fact that yes, we give you rights, you assist the Ministry of Interior, but deal with the funds that are from the revenue to the municipal budget. Which community can afford it? Very little I told you, except the district towns, no smaller municipality in the Republic of Bulgaria. Maybe the idea of the units being created is quite different, but we're still going to the same status quo. In the municipalities, there are many misdeeds that, perhaps 60% of the municipalities can't collect them for years. Any mechanisms have been used by the mayors.............. by companies to collect obligations, whether through their employees who work for the tax services, whether through municipal police. Now we're creating something new that's either picking up clutters or making sure there's new revenue to the municipalities. As an idea, yes, but with this bill, as proposed, it is absurd to implement. Why would I say that? For the reason that it was the mayors of municipalities, when they assisted the Ministry of Interior, whether with cars, whether with fuel in their activities, with which they control public order on the ground, at some point the Minister of Interior then, a few years ago, you probably remember, banning donations to the Ministry of Interior by municipalities or by mayors of municipalities with the idea that there would be no conflict of interest, and that the Ministry of Interior could use all its rights as a controlling body and to the municipality institution. What are we doing with this bill now? At one point, full interaction between the mayor of the municipality and the head of the police department or the RDVR in the designated area. How will they control themselves and how will they interact? The mayor will have the rights to de facto be the head or director of the RDVR or the police department. Next, we are going back to what the former Minister of Interior had banned so that conflicts between the two institutions would not occur... a state and municipal administration. So when we talk about decentralisation, we need to talk in its true sense: rights and obligations, but also funds to support the structures to municipalities that are expected to be created with this bill. This can only happen if there is synchronization, but without certain rights that the Ministry of Interior currently has, learning for years on its activities. We cannot train an employee in a month whom we have appointed to have the same powers as an employee of the Ministry of Interior who has studied for five years, say, at the school in Pazardzhik. That's not gonna happen! It is precisely because of this fact that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not going to support this bill with the idea of being in a completely different direction in the future proposals, in order to have the effect of the entire activity of the municipality to have rights, to be able to collect its problems; the municipality and the mayor also have rights, but not to be such as the Ministry of Interior has to be able to control the relevant municipal employees even the mayor of the municipality. That's what I want to finish with. Thank you. I hope that we can reason not to vote now on this bill, honourable Members, but to sit down and consider it carefully so that it does not happen as it did on the Municipal Police Bill and that it does not have any effect. This law is made only for municipalities that currently have such employees and who, unfortunately, sometimes also use repressive measures against certain citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. First line, Mr. Hristov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u20	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It became a little dangerous already because the meaning and essence of the bill began to distort. If it is normal for some to make purely political statements, we should not change the essence by presenting a distorted picture. First, I ask Mr. Ali: you know that there are representatives of all political forces in the Management Board of the Association of Municipalities and they all supported this bill? Who don't we trust? Do you believe your representatives in the Association of Municipalities in the Management Board who supported this project? I mean, if you don't believe them, why are you putting them up for mayors again? If you believe them, what are we doing right now? Why are you mistrusting them and everyone else? I don't accept the accusation that, you see, we are burdening municipalities with new financial burdens and they need to be given additional funds. You see, municipalities still have such structures that perform these functions, and you know it perfectly well. They have inspectorates, they have other control units, so the research shows.. and this is confirmed by the mayors themselves, representatives of the Association, by the Association of Presidents that they will not bring additional financial burdens in the performance of these functions if they are created because they are not mandatory. I mean about control. These control units are not for collecting revenue, they are for controlling. I could not accept anything else, and I would ask you to justify yourself a little better: why in the Private Security Act have we given such powers, and we do not give them to the representatives of the municipalities? I will summarize the questions again: Do you trust your representatives in the local authorities, who you raise for mayors that they will not abuse? If you believe them, why are you against them now, as it is their opinion? Secondly, why can we delegate rights to private guards, and we cannot delegate the same rights to the representatives of the state and to the local authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ali, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Hristov, we believe in our representatives in the local government! We also believe that the legislative body in the Republic of Bulgaria is parliament and not the National Association of Municipalities. At the same time, I want to focus on something else. If you remember last year, when we discussed a similar bill on local self-government and local administration, I mentioned to you that the Ministry of Interior currently has unattended state numbers. Why do we have to create something, even then, when the municipal police were created instead of filling the states that are free? For example, only for the Targovishte district, I think there are about 28 free stats, as the Prime Minister had said in every village a police officer, so that his promise to the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria could be fulfilled, but it did not happen. Now we need to invent and even more to burden the mayors of municipalities with budgets, with which at least we should equip those employees who will be in these departments to wear them, to have initials to respect the citizen when they go to make an act. So there are things that need to be commented. We are not opposed to having such a bill, but we are opposed to the ways and rights that will be given to the mayors of municipalities. I was mayor of the municipality, you know. We are opposed in this way to being able to have the citizen worried, to put it mildly, by this employee who will come to his house to give him, for example, a certain act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. To make a statement, Mr. Atalay has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to remind you that it was not far away when this bill would enter the Chamber and in consultation with the President of the National Assembly of the Parliamentary Groups the bill was drawn because it was scandalising society. The bill has been withdrawn for another reason. [[The National Representative Krasimir Tsipov is leaving the Chamber.]] Mr. Tzipov, please listen to me. The bill, Mr. Hristov, has been withdrawn. Here I want to ask you the question as you asked my colleague Tanner Ali: Do you believe in Mr. Tzipov and the Ministry of Interior, or the report of Mr. Tsvetanov, who was read by Mr. Nunev on this bill? I respect you, and I respect Mr. Veselinov for your opportunities and your desire to introduce that order that is needed in the municipalities, but not that particular order that you want to introduce. That's why we're against it for the special order! I welcome you to be very serious MPs. Imagine, the entire Council of Ministers couldn't think of such a bill. You have proposed and once again we are discussing this bill, in which you are also contradicting the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister came out and said he wanted a militiaman in every village. You say no, in every village there will be no... [[Noise and lines: Officer!]] All right, Officer! Now what you're offering as guards, they're just similar to the guard. If in every village and every neighborhood there's gonna be a cop, you with the appointment of three serving mayors, you're gonna do everything the police couldn't do by now?! What are you offering us?! You are so proud that you have almost offered us innovations and a new municipal enterprise, through which the municipality will become rich and acquire funds. And you're offering us how to fine these people who live in this municipality, how with the intelligent system, instead of creating what way not to get the traffic jams, you're talking to me about the cameras by which the mayors will punish the people who live in this municipality to collect funds. You have returned the police officers. I will use another word with you as guerrillas hiding them in the bushes right now. See what tripods put on like this, dressed with branches and twigs, to detect someone who moves by the rules or, God forbid, by one chance you can't fine him. Stop with the cameras! I respect your every legislative activity! I respect you when you want a municipality to have revenue, but revenue from production! I respect all that you want to introduce order and discipline that should be in the municipalities, but you in these municipalities besides the municipal police, besides tax and people who will collect again more punitive shares, what do you suggest, honourable Members? Nothing important, nothing else! I think Mr. Tzipov will come after me and read the opinion he gave then. This opinion, which the Ministry of the Interior did not agree with in this bill. [[Heckling]] Then, Mr. Hristov, step out on the stand, say that you are withdrawing the bill, because I have many more things to say to you, but I do not want to present that division now in GERB's group, that Mr. Tsvetanov is gone, his report remains and you are now wondering how and in what way to support Mr. Tsvetanov, or the Bill, not the mayors of the DPS who supported this bill. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u26	To you, Mr. Atalay. You explained very well the essence and mechanism of the movement of this law, but you had to strongly emphasize Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov is missing, but the coloring still exists somewhere in the legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Manev has the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u28	Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I also respect you very much, and I would like to point it out from here. I wouldn't be speaking on this bill at all, except here, from this tribune, you've made a mess of incredible claims. Starting from the fact that there has been no militia for a hundred years and that fellow policemen are offended by the issue of the militia, because a militiaman is different, and we are done so that there are almost companies, squads and so on. Actually, it's about control, not the mayors' penal activity. It's about having not one, not two, and I don't know how many meetings with the initiators of this and similar bills. My reply to you is directed at this: Can you deny from this tribune that in relation to the duties the mayors have, we must work and think on how to carry them out in this area in public order security? This is not a matter of crime, disclosure and so on, what is a priority only for the Ministry of Interior, but that we should finally find a toolbox with which the mayors will carry out their duties. Can you deny that? I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Third line, Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, and I respect you very much as we will respect each other and make such explanations from the stands, but I disagree with you. What do you want: to turn parliament into the Prime Minister's rubber seal?! That's what it looks like! The Prime Minister said, therefore you must do something in this direction. Please! We must respect the institution we represent! So Mr. Borisov's statement does not involve us as MPs, however, engage us the idea that in every village there should be a police officer and I think that this is the common view of all of us here and we should argue about the way this is going to happen. As far as I know, perhaps Mr. Tzipov will say more precisely, but with at least 1,000 police officers per year the numbers increase, but this is a slow process, as there is a need for training and difficult to fill in the police ranks. What disturbs me the most in your statement, Mr. Atalay, is the sliding on a plane, let me call it dangerous populism, so there must be laws, but there must be no way to comply with them. In fact, you are waving as some kind of threat to citizens that there will be an instrument by which to enforce the law. This is what I cannot accept, and I believe that no one who claims to be a statesman should be allowed to claim it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Atalay, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I heard all three colleagues, I didn't see any of them trying to disprove my thesis and my vision of this bill. You all agree that the attempts you are making at the moment will not bring any benefit except the collection of funds in the treasury of the municipality, and by means of acts, punishments to the same people who live in this municipality. And if the word "respectful" offends you, perhaps there is a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Personal explanation Mr. Hristov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Atalay's statement was directed primarily at me, and I could not help but think. First of all, Mr. Atalay, you know perfectly well that the bills are discussed not only here in this Chamber. The more people involved in discussing a bill, the more quality it is and that is why we have requested the opinion of the Association of Municipalities, which I used. In addition, the opinion of the Ministry of Interior is this, and it is positive, I assure you of that. Yes, they have notes on the formulation of some of the texts, but the opinion is positive. As for the Commission report, it was positive. That report was positive! Yes, between the two readings can and will be tabled changes, we expect changes from you too. But you almost make me feel that I have taken this bill just like that and we are trying to impose it in order to give an additional instrument of terror into the hands of the mayors, which the mayors themselves denied in the Association of Municipalities and denied at the meeting on March 14th when we met them in public! So I apologize, but that's not true. This is not the first attempt actually in this room to find a solution. We are not looking for a punishment mechanism, we are looking for a mechanism to put into the hands of the mayors in order to carry out their public order control and the preservation of municipal property more effectively. That's the point of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Ivan Ivanov has the floor for speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! To tell you the truth, I'm surprised we're having a discussion on a similar bill. My personal feeling was that once he was withdrawn, he went into history, and we're not gonna deal with him anymore and we're not gonna discuss it. There is talk about the discussion that was held in March last year under the auspices of Mr. Tsvetanov. Of course, the memories that come back to me were bringing a kilo of representatives of mayors from GERB to explain how they are waiting for this law...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u37	Not only GERB, there was Samokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u38	...how they expect this law and enjoy it and want to step in their power at all costs so that they can manage public order and security in the respective municipalities. The right move then was to withdraw this bill. Today it is extremely worrying that right on the eve of the local elections, two weeks before the start of the campaign in the local elections, here in this Chamber, we are dealing with problems in the Local Government and Local Administration Act, which gives them rights, in a hurry, for the mayors to organise some groups that are already present in the municipality, but do not have the necessary powers to obtain additional powers. That's one side of the question. Just to open a clamp, I imagine on the election day in sections where there is a compact Roma population, how these groups authorised to hold, these groups empowered to check personal documents, direct and explain precisely to these voting Bulgarian citizens how their election day should go and how they should not break public order by entering the sections and are respectively respected. But that's one side of the question that's not insignificant at all, and I'm going back to it. Secondly, honourable Members, the discussion about the way the Ministry of Interior should function, the relationship between this part of law enforcement and society at all, we do not conduct it today, we do not conduct it since yesterday. Just to remind you that just a few weeks ago, there was a protest by the employees of the Ministry of Interior with regard to the payment of the night's work, with regard to an increase in their wages and requirements that have not been fulfilled for years. We see that there is a trend that has already been required since the beginning of this mandate very seriously... for the concessionation of the functions of the Ministry of Interior in relation to both private structures and the municipal structures. Just to remind you that the Private Security Act landed in the Constitutional Court precisely because of similar texts and was urgently amended because then a very serious attempt was made to give private companies the opportunity to do the same work that the Ministry of Interior carried out. At the same time, the Ministry of Interior is underfunded, your election program is not implemented, where there is a very precise and clear description of the commitments you make by the end of the term. I also want to know what your view is with regard to the 2020 budget that is coming. What money will be given to the Ministry? How will the requirements of the employees and the expectations of the public be met with regard to this Ministry? Because, just to remind you: when we voted on Budget 2019, we identified these needs as a parliamentary group, gave them here as a proposal, you didn't accept them, so the employees then had to go out on the street to protest to give them the Prime Minister through the bottomless pit of the so-called budget surplus or reserve he has to distribute. Are we going to see something like this again this year? Let's go back to the city employees. What are the requirements for these municipal employees? I just want to remind you that in the Private Security Act, you have explicitly written requirements even if you have a secondary education for farmers. What is the guarantee that these municipal officials who will receive such powers, including holding until an employee of the Ministry of Interior comes... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] Please read the texts carefully! Don't replicate me from where I'm standing! Do not replicate me from a place, because the discipline of the MP requires that you come here to the stand and speak. You obviously hate to hear such things, but that's the truth. So who will guarantee that the municipal employee will have a basic education when the mayor appoints him, given that the applicant must have a secondary special education, have passed the appropriate course and the municipal employee has no requirements!? Explain to me also how this alignment of the speed control systems, for example, of the settlements, between the system that built the Ministry of Interior and the mayor, how would this thing do it? You're gonna give them those old radars that don't have cameras stopping from every corner? You do understand what an arbitrariness this is about, don't you? Dear colleagues, show some sense and don't do this thing. I see that you are in a hurry today to do so, perhaps next week to pass at second reading and quickly municipal mayors where necessary to make the appropriate commands to prepare, instruct, pass, respect the respective groups of voters in order to ensure a victory. I understand the concern you have about the local elections, we see what is happening, we see certain media with what publications you are dealing with, we see that espionage has come on the agenda, you have included it in domestic politics, but today this thing is going to go beyond the limits of total possession of local authorities by means of pressure that will prove to be on the people who are going to vote! What order is created in this law to control precisely those people who will exercise similar functions? Of course, in many European countries, this thing is there, but they have outgrown, there democracy has acquired the necessary size, it has acquired the necessary development and civil self-awareness. But unfortunately, here, with you, things are different. We have seen choices made without giving specific examples. You know very well what happened, but why do we have to give this thing an additional incentive and further development? You have written in the motives, honourable Members, that it would not have charged additional costs to municipal administrations. Well, how can he not load them? None of the opposition's proposals do you accept, and your mayors, to increase the amounts of state delegated activities of the municipalities during the vote of budgets, and now you want to give them additional powers to take more employees, to load them with new functions, to equip them with uniforms, whatever else, to be able to buy them techniques to control the speed, for example, traffic, new signs and whatever other activities they need to carry out in quotes in order to introduce some order in public relations in places, and at the same time no money is given to them. And in all this work, where is the Ministry of Interior, again? Why don't you create better conditions? Why aren't new employees hired? Why not do what is written down as a requirement for these people to get them a normal order of business? Why don't you do it again to go back to your election program, increase the number of these employees? I will not forget, Mr. Radev was a minister and read us from the stands a statistic how he increased by 1500 employees of the Ministry of Interior. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Tsipov.]] A thousand and five hundred, Mr. Tzipov, and he was explaining to us how they were retrained at the moment, how they were trained, and would immediately flow into the ranks of law enforcement and provide public order. And at the same time we say: we apologize a lot, but we no longer need new police officers, the municipal officials from Regulation No 1 will do this job, but, by the way, we will let them test them during the elections to see how they work and if they can respect it. This is happening today. Dear colleagues, the normal and reasonable thing is for this bill to be completed today in this House and to no longer deal with it! The elections of new mayors are coming, the election of a new Association of Municipalities, where no one knows what the representation will be, is not known what their opinion will be! There is no way one week or two before the end of the term of office of all those who have supported this law, to now give them their opinions and talk to us: see, they support it!? Well, they support it, but we don't know if the citizens will support it! And those citizens who are going to vote for them, whether they want this thing, it's not clear. You see, it is very trendy today to introduce such a bill and examine it literally two weeks before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. First line, Mr. Julian Angelov. Here you go. Second line, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ivanov, what is this defeatist thinking on your part? Are you going to lose the local elections again? [[General applause from GERB.]] These people who are appointed by the municipalities, most likely when the law comes into force, if you win the elections on the ground, you will appoint them. Then why are you worried someone's gonna repress someone? But you seem to already know that you will lose the election in many places, and that worries you. It's okay. We saw how excited you were in the European elections, we all saw the result. It's okay to worry. But when you talk about the Ministry of Interior system, and when you talk about these people, and you call them freaks, it's somehow not logical that those people who really have to guarantee some security and really reduce and respect the domestic crime, you call them freaks. It's not respectful. And the other thing I want to tell you. When you talk about the Ministry of Interior, you can look at in the last two and a half years that the Ministry of Interior has an increase in incomes, the Ministry of Interior has an improvement in the material base, in the Ministry of Interior and last year, and this year more than a thousand people have been trained, and last year a thousand people have joined the mobile groups, namely to respect and prevent domestic crime in Bulgaria, and you know it very well in the risk areas. And the results are there, domestic crime is falling, unfortunately, not at the pace that we all want to happen, but these are real measures that were taken by the Bulgarian government, and you know it very well. They may not be enough, but there's a lot more of them than you did when you were in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Tanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Ivanov! Firstly, ensuring the normal running of the elections is clearly written in the Election Code, and it is entrusted only to the Ministry of Interior. Secondly, speaking of how much a municipal employee of the municipality would be worth, it clearly shows that you are not aware of how much an employee of municipal police is currently worth to a municipality. Colleagues, so far...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u43	It's triple.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u44	It's triple, yeah. So far, many things have been said from this tribune, which lead to one thing only, that a normal citizen will say the following: we want to stop the authorities of the municipality from watching us whether we comply with the laws. What does that mean? There was talk of where the trinogs were placed. But, colleagues, with tripods, without tripods, the law is the same. We have to comply with the Road Traffic Act. Do we have to run a red light at City Hall? What happens now if a car is red and the camera detects it? I'll tell you nothing! The purpose of this bill is to enable municipalities to exercise the law as it is. And if for you the exercise of the laws that you have voted means that we are one way or another against our citizens, I am very sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Either you didn't listen carefully to what you were saying here, or there's something else going on in your head. First, you don't understand me, and now listen carefully: the Private Security Act introduces a requirement for farmers. You call these people, I'm talking about the village farts, to have a secondary education. Nowhere in this law do you make a requirement for municipal employees to have any education, to carry out an activity that is above the activities of rural pilgrims, because you give them police powers and you are the people who constantly humiliate the employees of the Ministry of Interior. You forget that only a month ago they protested before the Council of Ministers because they did not receive enough payment for their overtime. In just a few days, they will have another protest with medical workers precisely due to bad conditions. That's why people feel insecure because you don't fulfill your election commitments to have a policeman everywhere, we'll support you on this thing. Increase funds for the Ministry of Interior, make this reform that needs to be made in order for employees to be on the ground and who perform patrol-post work to be sufficiently secured with means to be able to ensure order in the respective settlements, and not to transfer functions to municipal employees who, in my opinion, in this particular election environment would fulfil these commitments. Because the Ministry of Interior's commitment to the Constitution is to carry out precisely these obligations in the protection of public order and no one else's. Our society has obviously not grown up to create such powers for private individuals, for municipalities and so on. I'm returning you to this debate that's being held for private security activities. You forgot that thing. You got it back vetoed, went to the Constitutional Court and so on. Stop that thing! Let us restore the honour of the Pagon to the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Join us around this thing. Don't do that. You are talking about the other colleague that there was no way to participate in the electoral process. Colleagues, how are they not going to get involved in the election process by giving them the authority to check documents, to hold? Well, if they could just go around the evening before the elections to check on some other citizens how they behave, how they rest and how they prepare on the day of reflection, it was enough, absolutely enough to respect them the next day. The elections are not prepared to lose them, you will lose them precisely because of similar actions you make on the eve of them. They are extremely immense and have only one goal: to ensure that the elections are won in the most unpleasant way, because some mayors are certainly already afraid for their seats. Don't do this thing, don't open Pandora's box, because coming back won't be easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Yankova, come in, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are at the end of the mandate for local self-government, local self-government bodies and it is logical to have such a bill. There are many issues for us as legislators on this bill. One issue being put with the Bill is regarding the management of public property and how the acts of the mayors of municipalities, the municipal councils can help the public relations to be more calm in the municipalities. The second issue that flows from this bill, which has repeatedly developed by fellow Members of Parliament, is about the relations between municipalities and the Ministry of Interior. We haven't found the measure here and we don't have the right solution. It was the time when in the 1999 mandate the cabinet took Kostov out, withdrew the Ministry of Interior from co-operation with the municipalities and this period is still giving its reflection. The first step was for the municipal police to decide, but it turns out that this is a job for rich municipalities and it is a conclusion how the Ministry of Interior and the municipalities are harmonious. We don't have a solution here. We leave the municipal police, and in parallel we create a control unit - whether it is an inspectorate - the municipalities will decide how it should be. There's the question of video surveillance, about money, about relationships on the territory of a community. These are issues on which we do not find a solution with this bill. They're very common, very complex. The question stands: are we creating uniform standards for municipalities as legislators? No. And the City Police and I didn't create a single standard. The fact is, only nine municipalities took advantage because they had money. And now we're not going to create a single standard. I am a supporter of such a bill with changes, but if the Minister of Finance comes here and says: yes, for every Bulgarian municipality there will be money in the increase of the local activities. Now someone here has told us whether the importer or the speaker will support themselves from the fines. Well, they won't support themselves, they won't collect so much fees, fines, sanctions, so that this unit can support itself. And now at the end of the mandate we say: there is a problem with local self-government, with control and acts, with management, with public roads, with road traffic and with control, but with this bill we do not solve problems. I am about to begin this discussion today at the end of the mandate. Even at the end of this Parliament's term there are still many screaming problems on financial and other issues. This bill is good that the President of the Commission and the Vice-President have signed it, to be a generator of what changes we should make for the next term together with the mayors to be elected. Because now you see what we decide? We will give the right if the Bill is adopted.. Although many groups have stated that it will not be supported, what happens? And now there are inspectorates in different forms in the municipalities. What are they doing? They control according to the mayor's and the municipal council's decisions. However, we will now allow them to have the right to require a document. A document is now required when the dog's act is made in the park or when certain acts are made for administrative violations. And now the inspectorates of the municipalities want ID, and now they're making alert protocols for both floor property and a bunch of other things at the Mayor's will. However, there are two things that we do not agree on because the measure has not been found: limiting the right to free movement of the person to the arrival of a police authority. It's pretty controversial here for us why. Why would that right be restricted when we have so far delegated it only to the Ministry of Interior? This question concerns us. This is perhaps one of the main issues that is worrying. And since you are putting the question that this bill will almost solve the issue of road traffic, well, honourable Members, in the first planning period there were funds to be able to make a complex video surveillance in the municipalities of regional development, then At the moment, this is security and citizens need it. Let's think. Now goes the debate on European funds and this to come from European funds, not to constantly squeeze, squeeze municipalities with the few taxes and fees and the few populations that are left, and they have no money. A large part of the Bulgarian municipalities are in objective structural deficit because what they collect and what they need to spend is not enough. You see, we need social and other powers. And so it sounds like a little bit of police work. Therefore, I appeal to my colleagues Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov, let this bill be the beginning of the debate what the conclusions are about how local self-government functioned during the four years, which are the places and the thin things that should be done, but let us do it seriously and responsibly, and not now quickly in this way. It will not even be applied because de facto municipal councils are already in elections, and in the next term they will take it into account as something very palatial and now municipalities can make inspectors and any other control services. So these mantras, these good intentions are not made in a good bill. The questions stand, they will not be solved, and we will be called the bad lawmakers - just people who have not done well the attitude towards local authorities, local self-government and the citizens we represent in different forms. I turn with respect to my two colleagues to be the beginning of the debate, to withdraw it so that we do not reject it. There are things that can be done as conclusions and as a solution, but now palatically, partly it will not work for the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I can basically divide the speeches up to the moment into two groups. Some strictly do the party's bidding and proclaim those whom the respective political power has apparently adopted from the point of view of its momentary orientation, and those who have tried to understand the problems, to show that the problems exist and that this bill proposes solving a large part of them. Naturally, in one unit are people who have not dealt with local self-government. In the other role are the people who have been in the municipalities for years, know what the problems are, what the needs of the Bulgarian municipalities are, and are not the current mayors or the current municipal councils. Because this bill is not being made and is not being proposed for the current administrations. It will actually begin to act with the choice of new ones. It's not rash, it's late watching this bill. One year it is blocked by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and does not enter the Chamber. By the way, Mr. Tsvetanov was the man who didn't let it happen and to talk about the fact that the coloring was left behind is ridiculous, at least for the people who know the facts. In this regard, the facts are such: we have consensus in the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and I find it very interesting for the DPS to speak recently in any television participation about how political forces should be gathered, there should be consensus for development and so on, but in fact, every form of consensus is blaming itself for some reason, in fact, by waving out some untenable arguments, with threats to citizens, by trying to put them in a position to fear and as if some vague force threatens their freedom. There's no such thing in the Bill we're proposing. The bill that we are proposing has one main objective of making the municipal regulations applicable and the acts of the mayor accordingly. There can be no disorder of public order, and then there is no punishment. It's basic, it actually brings up in obedience to the law. That we have allowed decades to have entire communities that believe that the law, the regulation, the legal order at all is something out of the ordinary and can violate it whenever they want, and no one has the right to take responsibility for it, that is one of the huge problems in our society. The bill takes a small step towards solving this problem. This bill proposes the order to be defended by municipal officials for municipal regulations. What's more logical than that? At the moment Mrs. Yankova said and this is the right of the municipal employee to ask for an identity document in order to draw up the act, but the person to whom it is asked is not obliged to give it to him. You know it, Mrs. Yankova. In this regard, what is the possibility of the municipal employee to impose, to draw up an act and then to impose the penalty? Well, none at all. In fact, every municipal employee, in order to enforce the municipal ordinance, has to walk with a police officer next to him. Is this some kind of restriction, some kind of repression? No, it's not. The written warning. I'm sorry, but when a gypsy wedding terrorized the whole neighborhood all night, and the next day a public servant went in writing and warned that the next night shouldn't be the same, is that bad for society? No, it's only bad for those who break public order. Yes, and the police may warn them, it is a fact, but not everywhere has access to this police, that is, it does no harm, but complements the opportunities to impose order. Citizen's arrest, detention when a crime is committed. It also exists at the moment, it is said to be a citizen's arrest in our criminal law. Here we complement only in the event of violation of municipal property and in the event of infringement of municipal regulations. If we catch someone breaking benches in the park for example, isn't there a right for the municipal employee, who, I would like to point out, has passed special training, has been approved by the Ministry of Interior, that is to say he is qualified, and there are some nonsense here about how we're going to send a soulyo and a paulyo to impose public order, so this man is qualified, isn't it natural, when he captures such a person, to signal the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and to hold him until they come to arrest him for hooliganism? Well, of course! In fact, the whole thing and the whole debate is to inflate a balloon for a threat, for a coming dictatorship and for some terrible things that want to happen through this law. No, there is no such thing, and in fact the law is an expression of the philosophy that we, the Patriots, have always confessed that chaos must be opposed to order, and that is a law that imposes order. As for concerns about how it will be used for the elections, to tell you the truth, there is no technological time to be used, but if this is the issue that disturbs colleagues from BSP and DPS, I am inclined to put a deadline for the entry into force of the law, for example from the new year. There is no obstacle for municipalities to plan, if you will, the budget of these units so that they can function normally. Moreover, it is good that this law is now entering for debate because, by running for mayor, municipal councillor, everyone will be able to invoke the powers that, although in the future, this law will give it. So, colleagues, support this law. It is a law that will make people's lives more peaceful, teach them those who do not like to obey the law, obey the law, and will benefit everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Line. Colleagues, just to announce that the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov and the President of the National Security Agency will be here at 11:00. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I would agree with some of the arguments you offer. I also have a lot of experience in local self-government in this area, but I want to tell you directly that the texts you have signed do not give these opportunities. For example, you have spoken about the following that the municipality employee could still demand, but the other might not comply with this request to provide him with an identity document. The draft law you are proposing reproduces this situation. It doesn't even say who to ask for the identity document from the intruder or the witness, it just doesn't have any clarity. Look at your member who is a member of your project. And the second thing I want to say, you also emphasized on him. Indeed, in this new bill there is no distinction between the functions of this unit and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in the implementation of municipal regulations and the mayor's orders. The following paradox appears that when identifying the identity, this unit becomes a personal data controller and every one who stops them becomes a personal data administrator. This problem is not solved either. That is why we cannot support such a bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u53	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Any other lines? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u54	I thank Mr Nedyalkov for the line because it was constructive, in fact it was by the essence of the law, and not creating any fears and insinuating some dubious purposes of the law that are not such. First of all, I do not think that they will become personal data controllers by checking identity documents, because they will not record them and will not store them in any way, so from a formal point of view this is a false statement. With regard to the recording of identity, I am inclined, if you think there is a need for improvement, to comment on it, although in this case, creating this authority of the relevant authority, I think we are quite categorically creating and the obligation to legitimize the citizen as if he were a witness, whether he is in his capacity as an intruder in any case. By the way, because that should also be clear, these would not be random people walking around, say, with one badge, and the person in uniform who is legitimized as an employee of this unit will have the right to remove the identity and accordingly use it for the purposes of the act and compliance with the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Let me try to bring in some clarification to refute a lot of allegations that we have heard from the previous MPs, who have nothing to do with the bill so tabled. First of all, honourable Members, you should still read what is being proposed after you went out and gave lightly these statements that we have heard in the discussion so far. The power of the local authorities and, above all, of the mayor of the municipality and the mayor of the village exists in the Law on Local Self-government since its adoption. This power is linked to the protection of public order. There is absolutely no change with this bill, except that these powers are complemented with regard to the mayor of the locality. That's what I'm talking about. The other basis of the Bill is that once there is an opportunity to establish municipal police units under the Ministry of Interior Act, once there is an opportunity in other municipalities that do not have the opportunity to establish such units for municipal police, to establish with the Rules of Organization and the activities of municipal administration inspectors, the possibility of smaller municipalities to establish one such unit is now emerging. And, notice, there's been talk of this happening from the mayor. Dear Members of the National Assembly, what does § 4, art. 44a, para. 1? With a decision of the municipal council in the municipality can be created unit. Maybe it's not the mayor's commitment, it's the municipal council's decision. In this municipal council, all political forces have their representatives and they will take a decision and there is this possibility, according to the budget provided to it. Where did you see that these employees would be able to hold? Let me draw attention to the fact that the employees of this unit have the right to require an identity document when detecting violations of acts of the municipal council and may warn those persons in writing when they are hindered from fulfilling their duties and restrict their right of movement until the police authorities arrive. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The third delusion is not a detention at all, the third delusion you tried to make. It should be clearly and specifically noted that the requirements for all municipal employees are in the Law on the Civil Service Officer and the Labour Code. There is no need to record such requirements in this law. Yes, under the Law on Private Security, there is such a need, but under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, the requirements for employees are recorded in other regulations. In conclusion, as to what was said about the opinion of the Ministry of Interior. The opinion of the Ministry of Interior is positive, the remarks are for preciseing the texts regarding the mayors chairing the municipal committees for public order protection. Such power does not currently exist in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. The more serious remarks that were given by the Ministry of Interior were on the second part of the Draft Law because texts in the new legislation are provided for the draft new law on road traffic, with a much clearer and concrete mechanism on how the municipalities should receive funds through the Road Safety Fund for the construction of this type of infrastructure, namely: through the representative of the Association of Municipalities in the Road Safety Council to submit the relevant proposal by the municipality concerned and this Council to decide and the decision to grant the Minister of Finance, which is entrusted with the funds in the Fund of Road Safety. So, ladies and gentlemen, speaking from this tribune, it is still good to read exactly what we are talking about, not to deceive not only the MPs, but to deceive the Bulgarian society as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Line, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tzipov, I cannot understand when you specifically and sincerely speak to the MPs when you were Deputy Minister or now when you are a Member of the National Assembly? You haven't answered a few basic questions. If you can have a duplicate, tell me: why is it done exactly on the eve of the local elections, before the last meeting of the municipal councils, when they can make comfortable decisions related to this law, if it enters into force and is adopted, and not after the elections, when the new mayors and the new municipal councils can decide whether this need is urgent, explain to me why? Despite what you are proclaiming, including you have fresh examples with your mayors, who only, and only to vex their opponent, have closed down entire inspectors to punish their opponents, to clean up uncomfortable people associated with their opponents, to shut down inspectors of large municipalities, to explain to me why you are trying to convince us that there was no connection between private guards and these municipal officials, because private guards are also appointed by the Labour Code and for them there are requirements for education, censure and training, and for municipal employees there is no connection. Where's the truth? That's what we want to find out.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u59	They're government officials.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u60	No, Mr. Tzipov, don't replicate me! I'm replicating you because the requirements for these employees are under the Labour Code. They are appointed under the Labour Code, on which they will work and perform these security functions, and not under the Law of the Civil Service. Again, why do you read the Law as the Devil's Gospel? How do you interpret the detention until the Ministry of Interior officials arrive? Isn't that detention? How do you interpret it? Explain to us here who obviously, in your opinion, do not understand the interpretation of the law. This is a fundamental right and freedom of the Bulgarian citizen to move freely, which the municipal employee will limit to him. Isn't that detention? Explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u62	Thank you. Mr. Tzipov, you specialized in the Ministry of Interior so that you could read the law as you benefit. I was even going to offer you... Colleagues, Mr. Emil Hristov and Mr. Veselinov said from this tribune that they will hold these people until they come, let's not say the militiaman again that you will be angry with me, the policeman. Can you imagine this detention of people appointed by the mayor moving with their seat belts? I don't know if you're going to suggest that someday the MPs and I take a pragga to go and if we see an intruder, we keep him. Don't do this! I read the opinion the Ministry of Interior gave. Then you and I commented on the whole thesis. We have come to the conclusion that there has been an exaggeration of mayors' rights from previous bills so far. Isn't that right? Now you want to go out there and say that we haven't read the bill that we're voting for in a moment?! Well, maybe there are, but they're not from our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Third line? I can't see. Is there? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tzipov, with the protection we have heard from you about the proposed bill, do you recognise that the Ministry of Interior is unable to ensure public order and take the necessary action to protect municipal property? Is there a capacity for the Ministry of Interior, or are you unable to ensure the implementation of the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria? The proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Authorities show that you are outsourcing activities inherent in the Ministry of Interior in the hands of the local authorities. This duplication of activity indicates lack, inability, incompetence for you to manage.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. It's a hole, Mr. Tsypov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I'll try to be brief. For the two years or a little more than two years since the beginning of this government's mandate, the commitments set out in the Programme are strictly implemented. These commitments are related to the fact that for 2017, 2018 and 2019 the overall number of the Ministry of Interior, including the police, increased by two thousand. Two grand! Something that happened in just the six months from the beginning of 2014 to the middle of 2014, with an exact opposite sign. Then, in less than six months during the Oresharski government, more than four thousand employees of the Ministry of Interior were released and more than 5,500 states were made redundant in just 18 days. The bad news is, most of these states were probably cops and firefighters. Now it might take a few more years for the Ministry to fill out its state. You can also see that action is being taken in terms of securing and technical means. In the last year alone there are over 600 new cars for the Ministry of Interior. Over 600 new cars! So this is the sign of how the government manages and how it implements its programme. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 854-01-53, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and Emil Hristov. Vote 169 MPs: 96, against 69, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, here are the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov and the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" Mr. Dimitar Georgiev. Please, Quaestors, invite the Home Secretary. I am making a procedure for the admission of the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security. Please, voting mode. Vote 158 MPs: 156 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the chairman. Here you are, Mr. Yankov, just to inform the MPs that the Prime Minister has been informed, but cannot come because of pre-supposed commitments.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedure for the hearing to be held at a closed session, because in the presence of the media the invited Minister of Interior and the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" cannot use information other than that which has already been announced to the media. If you believe that the hearing before the National Assembly should be a repetition of the statements to the media, then let the meeting not be closed, but I am proposing that this hearing be held in closed session in order to be informed in detail about the work of the State Agency and the Ministry of Interior on the case. Thank you. Please put the proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Of course, I'll put it to the vote. Please vote on Mr. Yankov's procedure. They voted 163 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. Revoting?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, in order for this hearing to make sense, Parliament's sitting should be closed. Please invite colleagues who are not in the Chamber to come and vote. Thank you. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please invite the Quaestors to enter the hall. I put to the vote the re-voting procedure that Mr. Popov just did. They voted 176 MPs: 85 against 11, 80 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Minister, please give us an update on the reported espionage.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u72	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! On 9 September 2019 the Ministry of Interior issued a decree from the Special Prosecutor's Office for the provision of assistance within the competence of the Ministry of Interior in carrying out investigations by officials of the Sofia Directorate of Interior in pre-trial proceedings No 133 of 2019 under the Description of the Special Prosecutor's Office, formed for a crime under art. 105, para. 1 of the Penal Code. In implementation of the same, the employees of the SDVR provided such assistance on 10.09.2019 to the Specialized Prosecutor's Office by conducting different types of investigative actions, surveys, searches, personal searches and other activities in the investigation of the territory of the city of Sofia, the city of Pernik and the city of Breznik. As a result of these actions with a detention order under the Ministry of Interior Act, eight persons have been detained within 24 hours who have been transferred to the investigating authorities in the framework of the implementation of the Order. During the period of detention, the persons concerned shall be escorted to the premises of the Investigation Department of the Special Prosecutor's Office where they are provided to an investigator for the continuation of the procedural actions with them. With regard to the specifics of the investigation, unfortunately, I cannot give any more information, as the Ministry of Interior has carried out in full the order within my competence. Since the rest of the information is a secret within the meaning of being part of an investigation, I have no permission from the monitoring prosecutor to carry it out. I'll limit myself to the information I've made so far. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.............................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u73	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency, National Security, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will brief you on the information concerning the case of a crime against the Republic, namely placing a Bulgarian citizen in service of foreign organizations. As you already know, the Bulgarian citizen in question is Nikolay Malinov, Chairman of the National Movement of Russia. In the course of the work at the State Agency of National Security on the implementation of decrees awarded by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria related to the investigation of crimes against the financial and credit system of the country, an established and functioning money laundering scheme has been established. During the events it has been acquired information that this scheme is used to transfer funds from a Russian citizen who is head of a foreign organization The Society of Two-headed Eagles with interests in various areas of the country's public and political life. According to the data we have, the scheme provides funding for events that directly affect the national security of the country. Foreign nationals, heads of the two organisations identified in the case, have publicly declared that they are fighting a hybrid war against the West. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] One of them is listed by the United States and the European Union on his actions against the territorial integrity of Ukraine, and the other is a former high-ranking officer in the intelligence service of a foreign country. Information has been acquired regarding foreign nationals that they are developing a joint activity and act in coordination. During the work of the State Agency of National Security, data was collected on the case that Malinov maintained long-standing contact with these foreign citizens, repeatedly travelled to the Russian Federation, where he held meetings with them, received tasks and in some cases financial resources. During the additional events were acquired data that Malinov has prepared a report note in Russian on the necessity of the geopolitical reorientation of Bulgaria and the famous of all the project "Bulgaria." It also proposes to conduct a number of events related to certain actions in the field of domestic political life in its various aspects and media, which will lead to such a change in the country's orientation. According to the report, this is related to the realization of the Project "Bulgaria" and to its implementation an economic foundation is necessary. The document states that the implementation of this project should also be financially ensured and assets should be acquired for more than half a billion euros to be carried out free of charge by Konstantin Malofeev. The information acquired by the State Agency is provided in a timely manner to the Prosecutor's Office in view of the decrees received, with which the activities of the requirements laid down by the Special Prosecutor's Office's decrees have been fully carried out. I cannot provide further information on the case, as I am not authorised by the monitoring prosecutor in the case in view of the pre-trial proceedings. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We thank the President of the SANS and the Minister of Interior for the information they have given to the MPs. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I think what happened earlier was, to put it mildly, a mockery of the MPs and the National Assembly institution. Here were invited the Minister of Interior and the President of the SANS to give information to the MPs about a scandal and at all the involvement of the state in an extremely serious offence such as espionage. We were entitled to ask for the necessary information to be provided here, including at a closed session. Please take steps against your powers to make this happen, and if they have to come back here and explain to us exactly what they have found, what these individuals are really dealing with, is national security threatened, because it turns out that the media are getting more information than the MPs do. This is humiliating for everyone present here in this room. I don't understand why they had to come here in telegraph style and give us a lecture of three sentences. This is something we already know, even more than we know in the media. My procedure is to make sure that the meeting is closed, to hear the objective truth about what is happening so as not to make speculation in one direction or another. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I did what was necessary and put the procedure to the vote. Twice the closed session procedure has been rejected, so I have no opportunity to do otherwise. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we all saw the level of confidence in the Bulgarian Parliament this morning below 15%! The bad thing is that we do it ourselves and we do it ourselves so that Bulgarian citizens do not respect us and we do not respect ourselves. Madam President, as President of the Bulgarian National Assembly, I ask you to really make efforts to increase the authority of the institution, so that the MPs do not humiliate themselves, and when there is such an important problem in the country, such an important problem, which also has an international response, we are here to hide between these four walls and force the ministers and the director of the SANS to say things that they have already said in the media, even in limited volume. We asked the Prime Minister to come. We have the opportunity, and you have the opportunity, to still correct this mistake, which we made a moment ago and at a convenient time for Mr. Borisov, may be later in the day, it may be tomorrow morning, when there are no commitments, to invite him and really in a closed session to inform the Bulgarian people's representation of what is going on in the country and how at 7:00 a.m. Bulgarian citizens are arrested as witnesses, not as witnesses, not as suspects, but as witnesses. These questions must be answered. The people you invited didn't answer. Bulgarian journalists, worthy Bulgarian citizens were taken at 7.00 a.m. in front of their families with handcuffs on their hands. Colleagues, this can happen tomorrow to each of you, to each of us, to every Bulgarian citizen and someone should reassure the Bulgarian citizens that the law rules rule in Bulgaria, not dominance. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Zablyanov, please come in for a procedure. [[Heckling]] Parliament's authority must protect it all together! It is not only the responsibility of the President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose that, in connection with today's practice, the curious visit of the two leaders, the Minister of Interior and the Director of the Agency, should distinguish the procedures in the Rules of the National Assembly and have an audition and a visit. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this case, the procedure that was carried out was a visit to the National Assembly and had nothing to do with the hearing, Madam President. Then things will fall into place, as the hearing procedure also implies content in it. Since there was no content in the hearing procedure, it was not carried out and I therefore propose that they be invited to be heard after the visit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. You have the right to make a hearing procedure. The procedure Mrs Daritkova did was to give information, so there is a difference in these procedures. There are rules by which ministers can be invited. Here you go, Mr. Shopov. Mr. Kutev, forgive me, but let's give Mr. Shopov his word, because he's from another parliamentary group. Let's alternate the parliamentary groups. [[Noise and lines.]] He's independent, I apologize. I accept the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u82	Right on the left, they're making a remark. I'm not independent. I'm dependent on the political party. Colleagues, the name, office, position of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria was repeatedly intertwined here. Both of them, who we heard a moment ago, heard from the head of the DANS and the Minister of Interior, agreed that they did not have the permission of the monitoring prosecutor to give more information, which the chief is, of course, according to the unanimous office of the Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General. We all entered the hall at 11:00 p.m. with great curiosity to hear what it was about. At the moment, after the two of them's hearing, the information is no more than when we entered the room. Let's not play pull-over! This is obviously how things have been put, according to the hierarchy, and a legal and institutional person, from whom we can obtain information, is the Attorney General Sotir Tsatsarov. That is why we should invite him and listen to him in a closed session, Madam President. My procedural request and what I take the floor for is to invite the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to listen to him, to see what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I'll inform the Attorney General and invite him to the courtroom. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u84	Madam President, the two persons who have just visited us, namely the Interior Minister and the President of the DANS, actually mocked you if you liked it. At the very least, I have a question for you. One said eight people were detained who were convoyed. The other guy said there was a case against one person. Did you guys get anything? You are President of the National Assembly in a parliamentary republic, i.e. a republic with parliamentary rule. You're supposed to be above all these people and, in fact, by the logic of democracy, you're supposed to be the guarantor of the fact that it doesn't happen in the country, because until one of them knows, they've done it together... One of them was investigating Nikolai Malinov only, and the other one was arresting several professors, publishers and journalists for some reason... [[Noise and lines.]] What if it's a democratic state, Madam President?! You're responsible for this right now! You are the only person, the National Assembly and you as President, who should impose the elementary rules of democracy. Otherwise, the point is lost and you have to clear the place where you are, which I think is imperative now! At least switch! You have no right to stay here! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u85	Mr. Kutev, there's no way I can get the Home Secretary and the Chairman of the DANS to release classified information! There was a closed session procedure. She was rejected. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't I have a right to an opinion? [[Calls and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear President, you have been a silent witness and accomplice to another mockery that the executive has made with the legislature, to another mockery that has allowed representatives of the authorities who are obliged to respect national security, and you have witnessed silently what they have done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u87	What was I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u88	I'll tell you what they did. They think that the MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u89	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u90	They don't read the papers. They believe that the MPs are blind and do not know what this is about or that they do not watch television. Moreover, they believe that MPs are less mentally developed than other people, and that is why they were presented with even the information that was in the public media, in short form. Here, look at what the papers write and how much they write about these issues. [[Shows newspaper materials.]] Here with three sentences tried to lead us and I understood GERB's idea what it was. GERB's idea and this proposal was here to make a firework, and you allowed this firework to happen, but fireworks do not solve the problems of society and therefore, Madam President, I ask you very much the next time we call someone here to provide information, to be so kind as to remind him that he is not at a briefing in front of journalists that he is not in some room with microphones, but is standing before the supreme authority of the state, the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is necessary to treat him with respect and not underestimate us and to mock us. And you're responsible for what happened! And you can't deny that responsibility. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Chukolov, to speak his opinion in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, namely: yes, the head of the DANS came here, the head of the Ministry of Interior did not actually bring out any information. However, what happens next in the House, Madam President, while you are leading? The BSP colleagues come out and actually make speeches, make procedures, do nothing but express their opinion on whether or not there was a hearing. Why? Bulgarian society to imagine and accept that they are some kind of defender of the Russophiles in Bulgaria or something like that. I will only recall the words of Mrs. Ninova, spoken in 2016, which simply reveals how she feels about all this, namely...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u93	To me in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chukolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u94	Yes, precisely to BSP colleagues, because they may feel affected or selectively forgotten.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u95	What's that got to do with me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u96	She says: "I will no longer comment on the lies and allegations of a corrupt Russian expelled from the Kremlin for corruption and conflict of interest. This is about Leonid Resetnikov. That's when you said it in 2016. And now, Madam President, you allow here, from this tribune, a false concern for Malinov's relations with Resetnikov and with the Russian state. I ask you to put an end to this and I ask you not to turn the procedures into a means of speaking to those who should be considered during a parliamentary...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. A very relevant remark to me, but there is no way I can stop the procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, our concern is also for the people who were handcuffed to Bulgarian journalists and for the way this is happening. I'm responding to the same procedure just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u99	By the way, for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u100	In the manner in which you are being led, Madam President, today this hearing or visit, as you wish, as you call it, a visit...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u101	It's not a hearing. Giving information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u102	... was requested by the chair of the parliamentary group of the ruling majority and GERB in particular. I call on you to call on the chairman of GERB's parliamentary group to say from this tribune are they satisfied with the answer...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u103	There's no such procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u104	...is this the purpose of GERB? this farce to happen here. If that's what they want to say. If they are not satisfied, let her as chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB, assist her group for a re-hearing and together with you...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u105	The way you lead Mr. Chenchev. What's it to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u106	To you and with your voice, and with your insistence, you have the full right to return to the hearing as it really should be, the minister and the head of the SANS, in order to hear them, and not this farce that happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Just to clarify that a hearing procedure may request any MP, any single parliamentary group of the Members of the Board of Appeal, art. 113, colleagues. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Today at 11.30 at the Club of the People's Representative will be presented a book - a collection of memories, stories from the first person entitled "Live stories about Nikolay Haytov." The great Bulgarian and writer dedicated to the 100th anniversary of his birth, organized by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Welcome to the club. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u108	Colleagues, let's get started. Thank you for being here. Moving on to the next point: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE CHANGE OF THE CONVENTION FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONS IN THE AUTOMATICAL PROCUREMENT OF PERSONAL DATA. Report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Welcome, dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would like to present your attention to you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Automatic Processing of Personal Data, No 902-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At its regular meeting on 4 September 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Automatic Processing of Personal Data, No 902-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Konstantin Dimitrov, Director General of the Directorate-General of Political Affairs and Maria Spasova, Director of the Directorate of Human Rights and by the Commission for Personal Data Protection: Kristina Radkova, Head of the Department of Legal Statements and International Cooperation. The bill was presented by Konstantin Dimitrov. Bulgaria ratified the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Automatic Processing of Personal Data on 18 September 2002. The emerging new challenges for the protection of privacy, with the increasing role of the new information and communication technologies, the increasing flows of personal data and the globalisation of their processing need to be updated by adopting a Protocol amending the Convention. The negotiations on the text of the Protocol finalise by its adoption by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers and open for signature on 10 October 2018. The document is an expression of the broad consensus reached on issues relating to the preservation of the general and technological neutrality of the provisions of the Convention, the maintenance of the Convention's compatibility with other legal instruments, the reaffirmation of the open nature of the Convention and its validation as a universal standard of protection. The provisions of the Protocol introduce the principle of a fair balance of interests for public and private, as well as for the rights and freedoms concerned. A specific feature of the Protocol is the introduction of special protection with regard to certain personal data such as genetic data, biometric data, personal data relating to crimes, criminal proceedings and convictions, personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political views, health status, sex life, trade union organisations, religious or other beliefs. It also provides opportunities for individuals to inform, understand and control the process of processing their personal data, which is the basis for the principle of transparency laid down in the Protocol amending the Convention. On the basis of art. 37 (3) of the Protocol States which will provisionally apply its provisions should adopt declarations to that effect. Bulgaria signed the Protocol on 10 October 2018 in Strasbourg, making a declaration of its provisional application pending its entry into force. The Protocol shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 6 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, after discussing and voting with 18 votes for the Council of Ministers, supported the draft Law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Automatic Processing of Personal Data, No 902-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. You wanted procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u111	Yeah. Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 39, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Georg Georgiev to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u112	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Cancel the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Georgiev to the Chamber. We are continuing with the next report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Who will present the report? Mr. Tanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data, No 902-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. At a meeting held on 4 September 2019, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Automatic Processing of Personal Data, signed on 10 October 2018 in Strasbourg. The reasons for the bill were presented by Petko Doykov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." Mrs. Maria Mateva is present from the Personal Data Protection Commission. Convention No 108 on the Protection of Individuals in the Automatic Processing of Personal Data of 28 January 1981 is the first legally binding international act adopted in the field of personal data protection. Bulgaria ratified the Convention on 18 September 2002. Due to the constantly emerging new challenges for the protection of the right to privacy, especially as scientific developments progressed, it was accepted that, for the effective implementation of its objectives, the Convention should be modernised in response to the growing role of new information and communication technologies, globalisation of processing and increasing flows of personal data by adopting a Protocol amending the Convention. The document is an expression of the broad consensus reached on amending the Convention in the following aspects: preserving the general and technologically neutral nature of the provisions of the Convention; preserving the unity and compatibility of the Convention with other legal instruments; reaffirming the open nature of the Convention by which it has a unique potential to be a universal standard of protection. The provisions of the Protocol introduce the principle of proportionality of intervention, namely the pursuit of a legitimate objective and the achievement of a fair balance of interests, public and private, as well as of the rights and freedoms concerned. Special protection is provided for certain categories of personal data such as: genetic data; biometric data; personal data relating to crimes, criminal proceedings and convictions, as well as personal data revealing information on racial or ethnic origin, political views, membership of trade unions, religious or other beliefs, health life. On the basis of art. 37 (3) of the Protocol, the States which will provisionally apply its provisions should submit a declaration to that effect which takes effect on the first day of the third month following receipt of the diplomatic note by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. The Bulgarian side signed the Protocol by making a declaration of its provisional application pending its entry into force. The provisions of the Protocol are in accordance with the Constitution, with the Bulgarian legislation, with the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria and with the law of the European Union and do not require measures of a legislative nature with a view to their implementation. The Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data shall be ratified by a Law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 6 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u114	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, do you have a say in this? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I'll introduce you to: Project! LAW on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data A single member. Ratifying the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data, signed in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018, with the following declaration: This Protocol will be applied on a provisional basis in accordance with Article 37 (3) thereof. Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The bill has been passed. Come in for a procedure, dear Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a procedure to proceed to a second vote on the draft ratification bill adopted by the plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u116	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u117	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data A single member. Ratifying the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Individuals in the Automated Processing of Personal Data, signed in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018, with the following declaration: This Protocol will be applied on a provisional basis in accordance with Article 37 (3) thereof. The Commission supports the importer's texts on the name of the bill and on the sole member.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u118	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the name of the Import Bill and the content of a member solely by importer. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The law has been passed. We continue with the next item of the National Assembly's Work Programme: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2018 We begin with the Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. You have the floor, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At its regular meeting held on 18 July 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the submitted by the Council of Ministers, No 902-00-19, on 11 July 2019. Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 was presented by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers. In his exhibition he noted that the submission of the Annual Report on the State of National Security is in implementation of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report contains information, analysis and assessments of the risks, dangers and threats for implementing an effective policy to protect our national security. The annual report on the state of national security in 2018 is essential for informing public institutions and civil society organisations in other countries as well as NATO, European Union and international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The internal and external processes have been analysed, which have a significant impact on national security and conclusions have been drawn on the state and the main guidelines for its development. The report contains an assessment of the risks and threats to national security in the field of the financial and economic system, external security environment, security in the field of energy, education, migration and refugee aspects of national security. The policies for the protection of national security, which also reflect those in the field of justice and internal order, defence, cybersecurity, countering corruption and migration and refugee aspects and their impact on national security, are also analysed. It is underlined that the fight against corruption is brought to an institutional level. The report detailed the activities, results and achievements of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is concluded that the objectives set have been successfully achieved. It is noted that by common recognition of the allied and partner countries, the active policy of our country for good neighbourliness, understanding, interstate dialogue with the countries of the Western Balkans have created the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria as a respected and sought-after factor in the region for lasting solution of long-term problems and for forming strategic prospects for bilateral and multilateral relations. The country's active participation in the world anti-terrorism coalition and the establishment of an organization to implement and comply with the measures developed in the National Counterterrorism Plan is reported. Through the National Counterterrorist Center, the State Agency of National Security is cooperating and continuously exchanging information in the 24/7 regime with the competent state structures and with the services involved in countering terrorism in all EU and NATO countries. The exchange of information shall also take place in multilateral format through participation in the meetings of the Working Group of the Council of the European Union Terrorism and through the network established on the initiative of Europol for the exchange of information on traveling terrorists. Border security and border management are identified as lasting priorities in the area of security and migration. The amendments and additions adopted in the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the European Union acquis in the field of migration. Effective security at the state border shall also be provided. The joint three-sided contact centre for police and customs cooperation at the Border Control Post works effectively. It is noted that in 2018, the Ministry of Interior actively worked to counter smuggling and control the movement of risky goods. In coordinated joint actions 31 large-scale specialised operations have been carried out to counter violations and crimes in the pharmaceutical sector, trade in meat, oil products, liquid excise goods, etc. The report noted that the Law on Measures against Money Laundering was adopted in 2018. It is active in preparing a new Law on measures against money laundering adopted at the beginning of 2018, aimed at preventing money laundering, terrorist financing, combating corruption, increasing capacity and analyzing and exchanging information. The Private Security Act adopted in 2018 aims to improve the professional capacity of security companies and increase the quality of the offered security service. A single automated centralized register of the licences of the exercising security activity has been established. In order to improve the organisation of work and increase the effectiveness of prevention and protection of public order, the Ministry of Interior is working on established rules and plans to counter conventional crime in settlements where there is no police presence. The specific work on general and individual prevention in relation to youth and child crime is activated. The measures and concentration of forces in the school districts have been strengthened. Active work is being done to strengthen the personnel resource involved in countering crime. A Human Resources Development Strategy was developed in the Ministry of Interior during the period 2019. The report describes in detail the efforts to achieve results in the activities of protection of the population and infrastructure in the event of fires, disasters and emergencies, training of police officers, information provision of the Ministry of Interior for countering crime. It is said that the Ministry of Interior has the first of its kind a comprehensive system based on globally established innovative GIS technologies, which allows for complex integration with other external and internal systems for the preparation of criminal analyses, as well as for presenting a common operational picture in real time for crisis management and disaster management. Organized crime, VAT fraud, tobacco smuggling and tobacco products, capital investment of dubious origin, fraud with EU funds, corruption, drug trafficking, human trafficking, forgery of electronic payment instruments, property crimes and personality are identified as a threat to national security. It is reflected that domestic crime, thefts, robberies and the illegal withdrawal of cars have the most significant impact on citizens' sense of security. It is concluded from these figures that, compared to 2017, total crime reported a decrease, with a decrease of about 9.8% compared to 2017. In 2018, the detection rate increased by 2.3% to 46% of all registered crimes. A decline in crime against property has been reported, with 12,3% less in 2018 compared to 2017, while a decrease in robbery is 19%, in fraud by 16,2%, and in the thefts by 12.4%, with a clearance rate of 33,6%, which is an increase of 2.6 percentage points compared to 2017. A significant problem is phone fraud, which are mostly elderly people, but compared to 2017, a decline of 17.2% was reported. The report identifies organised crime as a major threat to citizens and democratic foundations of society. Its main manifestations relate to violations of fiscal, illegal transfer of people across borders, cybersecurity, drug trafficking, people, weapons, cultural values, smuggling and others. There is also an analysis of the risks and dangers to national security against corruption, whose manifestations are in the sectors with great material resources, in revenue administrations, participation of state and municipal employees in parallel private associations and companies. The criminal market of illegally stolen vehicles has been reduced significantly and has been at one of its lowest levels in the last three decades. In 2018, the registered invaders were 2075 or there was a decrease of 12.4% compared to 2017, and the clearance rate was 1.2 percentage points more than 2017. Despite the significant reduction in the migration pressure observed after the closing of the Balkan route of the migration flow in 2017, our country hosted a number of joint operations of Frontex and exchanged information with the National Coordination Centres of the Member States of the European Union. In anti-trafficking operations of cultural and historical values was thwarted exports of objects of high cultural and historical value. Four cross-border channels for trafficking of cultural and historical values have been crossed. The report takes into account good coordination and cooperation between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the Customs Agency, the DANS, the Prosecution and partner services in the field of combating smuggling, as well as in the protection of internal fiscal interests, which have been taken up by Europol as a priority of the European Union. The National Council on Crime Prevention in the reporting period has developed and implemented measures to counter and prevent conventional crime aimed at the most vulnerable populations. The preventative program "Children' Police Stations" continues and children are trained in three modules. Special attention is also paid to police presence in areas with high concentration of crime and small and medium-sized settlements. The priorities of the Ministry of Interior, such as border security, increased capabilities to counter terrorism and radicalisation, fight crime, increase the effectiveness of preventive activities carried out by the police authorities of the Ministry of Interior, international cooperation and integrity in the fight against the risks and threats to our national security, are also outlined. Members of the National Assembly Ivan Ivanov and Manoil Manev took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, together with the Draft Decision No 902 00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Ladies and gentlemen, at our invitation at 1300 hours, the Attorney General will come here to provide extensive information on the subject we invited him to. We are continuing with the next report, the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, dear Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Foreign Policy Committee on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At a meeting held on 4 September 2019, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 and the Draft Decision on its adoption by the National Assembly. The annual report was presented by the Secretary of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev. The part "External Policy and Security" was presented by Petko Doykov, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The discussion was attended by Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security and Mr. Atanas Atanasov, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence. The annual report is prepared and submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System (GSP, SG No. 61 from 2015, in force from 1 November 2015) and on the grounds of c. 185 of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 14 March 2018. (DV, No. 26 from 2018) The report is drawn up in three main sections of the National Security Assessment of the Risks, Threats and Threats of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Policy for the Protection of the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The main objective of the report is to present an objective assessment of the state of national security and the actions of the competent state authorities and structures to address the security risks and threats in 2018. The trends for the development of national security risks and policies taken to address them are outlined. The report contains assessments of global and regional foreign policy events and within the framework of the country's membership in the European Union and NATO. The work in sectoral policies to combat risks and threats to national security is presented. The first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is reported and the results of the six interparliamentary conferences of the Parliamentary Dimension are also presented. The report presents the actions and measures taken by the Bulgarian State to address the risks to national security of a foreign policy nature. A detailed analysis of the external security environment, which in 2018 maintained its complexity and dynamics. The analyses are related to: the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the processes of defence cooperation in the European Union and NATO; the continuing Bulgarian position to support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine; direct participation through the activities of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in the unresolved crises and destabilization processes. Bulgaria's role in stabilizing interstate relations and defending the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries remains of particular importance. The position of the Republic of Bulgaria on enhanced cooperation between NATO and the European Union in supporting the Western Balkan countries is highlighted. Bulgaria continues its active engagement in a multilateral plan to counter terrorism. During the discussion the MPs took note as follows: Mr Christian Vigenin noted that the format of the report is rather standard and according to him should be emphasized for the future of recommendations on the content. It is also necessary to focus on internal aspects of national security, such as resolving the demographic crisis and a more aggressive strategy on this issue, which the government does not address sufficiently. Mr. Vladimir Toshev stressed that the report is structured conservatively and gave a positive assessment of the report's expertise. He pointed out that foreign policy and defence issues are very detailed and issues such as the demographic crisis can be dealt with in the long term. Mr. Toshev urged the members of the Commission to take part in examining the report in the relevant parliamentary groups. In turn Mr. Georgi Mihailov noted that the trend is for delay in the discussion of such reports given the dynamics of events. In this regard, there is the issue of Bulgaria's foreign policy in Southeast Europe and, in particular, the open issues related to the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Mr. Julian Angelov also stressed the demographic crisis and the problems with the workforce by recommending to the representatives of the relevant services to propose mechanisms for shorter procedures in the examination of documents for work and citizenship. In response to the questions raised by the MPs, Deputy Minister Petko Doykov stressed that Southeast European countries are present in the Report, as our policy on the Western Balkans, the membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in NATO and so on. The focus in the report is not on bilateral relations due to the dynamics of events in the region. Mr. Georgi Krastev added that for the preparation of the Annual Report the recommendations from the committees have an important role as well as the experience passed on by the European Union in crisis management and so on. A strategic review of the national security and defence system is under way, which will take into account dynamic developments, such as in relations with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which have undergone changes after the completion of this report. In conclusion, Mr. Plamen Manushev expressed satisfaction with the so presented report, stressing the wide range of topics affected in depth. On the basis of the discussion held, whereas the report achieves the main objective of objective awareness of the National Assembly and the public of the results of the security policy conducted, the Foreign Policy Commission with 10 votes..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. The next report belongs to the Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on draft Decision adopting the Annual National Security Report in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At a meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The main objective of the report is to present the assessments of the executive and legislative authorities on the risks, dangers and threats, on the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy, on the actions the state institutions plan to take in the next period. The Annual National Security Report is essential for informing public institutions and civil organisations in other countries, as well as NATO and European Union structures and international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The presentation of the security environment by priority and policy of the Bulgarian state are consistent with the dynamics of risks and dangers, respectively with the actions taken by the institutions during the period considered. A significant place in the report is dedicated to the problems in the field of demography and to some particularly important aspects of social security, the challenges and solutions achieved in 2018 in the field of energy security, and the topic of countering corruption is present at institutional level. On the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System approved by the Council of Ministers Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2018 was proposed for consideration and adoption by the 44th National Assembly. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 11 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour and 2 votes abstentions proposed by the National Assembly to adopt by decision the Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2018, No 902"19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019 "Thank you."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report by the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At its regular meeting held on 17 July 2019, the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers and Advisor to the Prime Minister's political cabinet. The meeting was attended by Mr. Stefan Balabanov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Mrs. Naska Alipieva, Director of the Department of Analysis and Policies. On the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System is proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. The reasons for the Annual Report indicate that its main objective is to present the executive's assessment of risks, hazards and threats, of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the national security policy in 2018, of the actions the state institutions plan to take in the next period. The importers point out that a significant place in the report is devoted to problems in the field of demographics and to some particularly important aspects of social security, such as the return policy for children who for one reason or another have dropped out of the education system. It is stressed that unlike previous annual reports on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in the presented report for 2018 the topic of countering corruption is present at institutional level and the reason for this is the fact that in 2018 the new Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. It established a Commission, which is an independent specialised permanent-acting state body for the implementation of anti-corruption policy and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission shall report on its activities to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is stated that basically the activities carried out by ministries and departments in accordance with their functional obligations in order to implement the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the European Union, 2 votes abstentions and 2 votes against the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. We continue with the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report. The Energy Commission report? We continue with the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At its regular meeting, held on 17 July 2019, together with the Committee on Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. The report, presented by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, consists of three sections "Assessment of risks, dangers and threats to national security, policies for protection of national security and key conclusions on the state of national security, and economic security is affected in each of them. The main macroeconomic indicators of GDP, gross added value and average annual inflation are analyzed. A favorable dynamic of the labour market has also been reported, confirmed by the reduction of the unemployment rate; an increase in food prices by 1.8%, energy goods by 6.4% and services by 4.3%; a significant contraction of inflation on an annual basis, influenced by the decline in international crude oil prices. The conclusions are drawn for a forwarding increase in imports. The impact on our tourism economy is affected, the continued ban of the Russian Federation on imports of certain products, Brexit, foreign direct investment. After the presentation of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results:...................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: "COMMODITY" on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At its meeting held on 23 July 2019 the Commission but legal questions discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902 00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, who noted that the main purpose of the report is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, dangers and threats, the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy in 2018, as well as the actions that the institutions of government plan to take in the next period. The report takes into account the positive assessment given by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, such as three of the indicators, namely the independence of the judiciary and the legal framework and the legal framework of the European Commission for the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, are considered to have been completed and significant progress has been made on the other three. The report focuses on the topic of countering corruption and the entry into force in 2018 of the Anti-Corruption Act and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, which created an independent, specialised and permanent state body for the implementation of anti-corruption policy. Significant situations governed by the law are the extension of the circle of persons obliged to submit declarations and the clarification of circumstances for declaration. It optimizes the rules for declaring and verifying the property and defines the relationship between the verification of property declarations and the proceedings for withdrawing the illegally acquired property. In relation to national security, amendments to the Judicial Law were made to the amendments adopted on 12 June 2018, which optimize the provisions on the verification of the magistrate's property declarations, uniformity of the appeal rules for the appointment of the executives and their alternates, and the clarification of the rules on the attestation of magistrates. Attention is also paid to legislative changes to the Criminal Code on the introduction into national law of the provisions on freezing and confiscation of funds for the benefit of criminal activity, the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and the proceedings under a European arrest warrant. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov and Philip Popov took part in the discussion. They indicated that they would not support the report by expressing disagreement with the management programme and paying attention to the overall state of the insurance market, population migration and the risk of the spread of African swine fever. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers, and without abstention, supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902/19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the adoption of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to vote on a procedure for the admission of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tsatsarov to the hall. Here you are, dear Mr. Tsatsarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u133	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! If I'm late, I'd like to be excused a few minutes. The subject of the hearing is as I've been told, and as I've heard from the media. I am on the move and, as I understand it, the subject of the hearing is related to the prosecution's investigation into a crime against the Republic. With regard to the information that can be provided to you at this stage and in general the information that can be provided to you: there are two legal provisions limiting it. The first is the Order of the Law on the Judiciary. Under the Law on the Judiciary and the Order of Art. 84, p. 16 as well as the Constitutional Court's Decision of 2017, Decision No 6, the National Assembly cannot request from the Prosecutor General a report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office in specific criminal proceedings. At the same time, the provision of art. 198 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which requires permission from the monitoring prosecutor. Regardless of these two provisions, and accordingly with the aspiration, and of course the obligation on my part, on the one hand, not to violate the law, but, on the other hand, to show the necessary respect and the right of information of the National Assembly, you will allow me to present to you the possible facts which may be presented without breaching those provisions and, of course, to be within the limits of what is permitted by the monitoring prosecutor by whatever permission, with relevant limits, I have written. As already announced, pre-trial proceedings began on 3 July this year. Until now, the actions carried out in the investigation into this pre-trial proceedings conducted in the Specialized Prosecutor's Office are as follows: 11 searches were carried out on premises, addresses, each of these searches was carried out with the prior authorisation of a judge of the Specialized Criminal Court. Computer configurations and documents were seized during the search. Secondly, five searches of motor vehicles were carried out, i.e. owned cars by persons again with prior permission of a judge; eight personal searches were carried out, each of which had prior authorisation by a judge of the Specialized Criminal Court; 15 witnesses were interviewed by two of these witnesses before a judge; eight persons were detained under the Order of the Ministry of Interior. Once the entire amount of evidence has been assessed as a result of these investigations, of course it is clear to everyone that the investigation is ongoing and will continue, as an accused person, one person has been involved. The person is Nikolay Malinov. This is already publicly known, a Bulgarian citizen who is attracted as an indictee for a crime under art. 105 of the penal code. The measure taken for non-reflection is a cash guarantee of 50 thousand. BGN, he was banned from leaving the country. Not in the order of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but in the order of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria yesterday it was reported that a restrictive measure was imposed on one person. This person is the Russian citizen Leonid Rezetnikov, whom the President of DANS has banned entry into the country for a period of 10 years. Today, a restrictive measure has been imposed on another person and this is Konstantin Malofeev with the same restrictive measure "prohibition of entering the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of 10 years. What was reported yesterday. The investigation has started as an investigation into money laundering. In the course of this investigation, cash flows have been established that cash flows reach a certain person or a certain company or to certain public organisations. The specific person we are talking about, I repeat once again, is the person Nikolay Mladenov, excuse me. We have not gathered any evidence in relation to others. As I said, a significant volume of investigative action has been carried out, but the assessment and the overall investigation has been directed precisely with regard to the activity of that person. In general, the investigation initiated, which was linked to a financing scheme, which was directly referred to as money laundering, ultimately showed that a small part of these cash flows were addressed from a foreign country, addressed by foreign organisations, addressed or initiated by heads of foreign organizations and directed to the defendant. They are directed towards it, to companies that are controlled by it. By "controlled" I mean his property in one form or another. It has been found that this is not about financing, which is for direct or only commercial purposes, that this funding is found to be aimed at carrying out certain activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and carrying out certain tasks by the accused. The main part of these tasks is related to the reorientation of the Bulgarian foreign and domestic policy and tasks, which are related to information about the activities of state authorities in view of its broad public, political, and, of course, personal contacts. The two organizations involved in the prosecution are based in the Russian Federation. This is the Society of Two-headed Eagle and the other organization I think it has the status of an institution there, the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies. So I repeat once again, it is about financing, which is essentially intended to finance, as far as it can be said in order to comply with all legal restrictions, but it must be very clear that this is a transfer of funds that are aimed at the realization of certain interests in the Republic of Bulgaria. These interests, as we said, relate to areas of Bulgarian political and public life, to the activities of Bulgarian state authorities and, generally speaking, to financing of events that directly affect Bulgarian national security. It is sufficient to mention only one report or one document which was found during the search yesterday and which was made public, of course, within which it is possible, with the permission of the monitoring prosecutor. The report in question is a report prepared by the defendant in his capacity as President of the National Movement of Roussofils.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It contains a complex of political, economic events, a way of financing political events, which are generally related to changing the existing social and political environment, foreign policy, the emergence of a new political entity that has certain objectives and which is linked to certain foreign interests. That's what I can say at this point. If I may, with all due respect to the National Assembly in view of all that has been said, I should also state something else. It was said in the public domain that this was a pursuit of ideas. My opinion and the opinion of colleagues working on the case is that this is not a persecution for ideas, because when ideas are imposed with money and influence and are directed against the national security of Bulgaria, it is a crime. Secondly, regardless of everything that is related in the current political environment, I cannot agree with the claim that this is a political action that is related to upcoming local elections, winning political dividends or so on. I'm not defending anyone or blaming any of the political forces. What we're doing is trying to do our job. One more thing: 9th, 10th, that's criminal proceedings. And one more thing, I can make it very clear, this is not an attack on the movement of Russians. The accused is the chairman of this National Movement, but the responsibility that he should bear in our view is practically responsible for his personal actions. The fact that the Movement has been used by him to implement certain objectives that are financed, respectively, does not mean that we should cast a shadow or pursue for ideas the members of this movement. This is not, excuse me for continuing in this way, a division of the Bulgarian society or an attempt to divide Russophiles and russophobes, as has been said. Because at the end of the day, it is not about whose foreign interests you serve, but it is about harming the Bulgarian national interests, and it is in a direction that is quite different, contrary and contrary to what you have accepted and voted in this Chamber as guidelines, in general, of Bulgarian development. Finally, a request was made to present irrefutable facts. With all due respect to this request and to its author regarding the presentation of irrefutable facts, irrefutable facts are presented before a court. They do not present themselves to other state authorities, not because these authorities need to be denigrated and not respected, but because such is the Constitution of the country. And one more thing, if we have started this investigation, we have a clear responsibility that we must present irrefutable facts to the Bulgarian court and we will try to do so. These are the limits within which I can provide information. If there are any questions in these frames again, I'm ready to answer them. We will provide periodic information about the investigation as far as possible, but, I assure you, we are trying to show it, and with our actions we are showing it, because I know what my colleagues are doing right now, I know what my colleagues at the State Agency are doing, and I know what the Ministry of Interior is doing, and our aspirations are strictly respecting the law. We cannot answer everything that is said in public space, but we are aware that we have to do our job. Consciousness that we have to do our job means reacting against any violation of national security, regardless of which side it comes from. I'm going to say it again, it's about putting in service and receiving financial resources. The charge concerns not a foreign country, but foreign organizations. The prosecution, I will repeat it for the third time, not for you, but for the Bulgarian citizens, does not concern the thousands of members of the Public Movement, but it concerns a person who used the Movement to impose ideas, only for money. The arrests were carried out in strict compliance with the Ministry of Interior Act. If you believe that this law violates human rights, it is in your power to change it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsatsarov. Colleagues, that's what we're done with. We are continuing at the point that we are dealing with here is the Commission's report on Agriculture and Food. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Bellova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 17 July 2019 discussing the quoted report. The meeting of the Commission was attended by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers, and Vasil Rizov, Director of the Security Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The report was presented by Georgi Krastev. In the part concerning agriculture, fisheries and forests, the report presents key findings on the situation in the sector, the existing risks, the activities carried out and the measures taken. The role of agriculture is highlighted to ensure a sufficient amount of products and food for the population and food safety along the food chain. The steady development of the agricultural sector has been noted. An annual growth is indicated on the basis of the physical volume of production produced, with the exception of certain fields in plant farming such as oil seeds, protein crops and vegetables due to adverse agrometeorological conditions for the crops concerned. A decrease of 4,3% is reported compared to 2017 of the gross added value of the agricultural, agricultural and forestry sectors, due to the lower buying-in prices during the year of certain agricultural products. It has been found that the stable production performance of the agricultural sector and the existing opportunities for the supply of foodstuffs in a liberalised market ensure that there are no significant risks to the food security of the country. Particular attention is paid to threats to the composition, structure and functioning of forest ecosystems as one of the main factors for preserving the high quality of the environment and natural resources. It has been reported that for 2018, the burned forest areas and direct damage from forest fires are many times lower than the average annual indicators in recent years, thanks to the preventive activity and the financial resources for specialized equipment, training and creation of voluntary formations. In comparison, direct damage to fires in forest areas in 2018 was estimated at 39,3 million. BGN, at averages of about 5 million lv. for the last 10 years. Due to the sanitary cuttings carried out, a reduction of the coral and phytopathogenic mushroom attacks with coniferous crops was observed by 65% compared to those in 2017. As regards the risks associated with the complicated epizootic situation, it is noted that in 2018, there were significant financial damage to the livestock sector, increasing costs of prevention and control and limited access by Bulgarian producers to traditional markets as a result of epidemics such as highly pathogenic avian influenza and small ruminants plague. During the period, the development of African swine fever has been monitored, which due to its high mortality rates, lack of treatment and vaccine is one of the most dangerous diseases in domestic and feral pigs. Attention has been paid to the activities of "Irrigation systems" EAD, which supports and exploits the State Hydromeliorative Fund and operates the facilities to protect against the harmful influence of water. It is noted that regular cleaning of sections around bridges and other road facilities is carried out. In spring water supply, water sites are monitored by employees of the Company, constant control of water levels is carried out and the necessary preventive measures are taken if necessary. In order to increase the security of dams designated as strategic sites or critical infrastructure objects, measures have been taken to update emergency plans and security plans as well as to develop plans to counter terrorism. In terms of the activities of the Executive Agency, it is noted that in 2018 the protected territory is 17 million. dka in eight areas. The activity is carried out through active impacts with anti-city missiles and monitoring of weather processes with doppler radar stations that provide continuous monitoring of the atmosphere and the information obtained serves as an early warning for dangerous weather phenomena. It has been reported that the active season in 2018 was characterised by a high degree of urban activity. The risks to the health of the population and to environmental and economic security related to the use and distribution of non-licensed and banned plant protection preparations in the European Union are noted. It is indicated that the findings of control bodies on the presence on the food market that do not meet quality standards continue. The practices of illegal logging continue in municipal, state and private forests, subject to the existence of unregulated ties between offenders and control bodies. As a sustainable negative factor for the development of the entire agricultural sector, illegal practices remain in the absorption of national and European subsidies. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) they said they will not support the report and noted that it looks formal and the recommendations from previous years have not been taken into account. They noted that the report again lacks an analysis of the risks associated with soil pollution with radiation, chemicals and others and did not take into account the role of the Agricultural Academy, which has commitments to national security as a structure that can make an analysis and make recommendations in the event of a crisis related to such pollution. They said there was no balance in the report. A great deal of attention has been paid to the problems related to forest fires, but there is no analysis of the risks to agriculture and their prevention measures. In conclusion, Georgi Krastev noted that the recommendations made will be taken into account in the preparation of the next reports. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, 6 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 2 votes abstention, supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902/19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for the adoption of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Next, a report by the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u137	Honourable Members, "COMMODITY" of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The Parliamentary Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics at its regular meeting held on 18 July 2019 examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The annual report on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 was presented by the President of the Commission Mr. Boris Yachev. He focused mainly on the part concerning the prevention and counteraction of corruption, included in the section "Policies for the Protection of the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria"........................................................................................... It is impressive that the anti-corruption activity has been given considerable attention in the report and many of its manifestations have not been reflected in it. A special emphasis in the report is placed on the events undertaken by the structures of the Ministry of Interior and that the state figures in its specialized department are increased, aiming to improve the organisation of the work on countering corruption in the judiciary, state and municipal administration, as well as the prevention and detection of corruption crimes. Although legislative reforms have been identified in the form of the adoption of a new anti-corruption law (Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property), no seat has been allocated to the specialized, newly-formed body in 2018 the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and its activities. According to the Annual Report on the State of National Security, the MPs Boris Yachev, Spas Gurnevski, Kristina Sidorova and Milko Nedyalkov were involved. Members of the Commission voiced concerns that the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property as a body that monitors and implements the fight against corruption should be necessarily reflected in the Report, taking into account the fact that it has been operating since the beginning of 2018, i.e. it falls within the scope of the Report. Mr. Yachev emphasized on the need to strengthen prevention, which is only mentioned in passing in the Report. Ms. Christina Sidorova also pointed out that it is extremely disturbing that 41 civil servants have been detained in the past year. Mr. Milko Nedyalkov added that the sector was also not included in the report as a priority topic. Mr. Boris Yachev also expressed his opinion that there is no important aspect related to countering corruption, namely information about the activities of the KKCONPI, reported in their Annual Report, which was reviewed and adopted by the National Assembly, which also pointed out individual indicators that would certainly have an impact on national security. After the discussion, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission: with 5 votes in favour; 2 votes in abstention and no votes in opposition, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Following is the Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u139	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 17 July 2019 the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Veliko Zanchev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Georgi Krastev, adviser to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who outlined the main objectives of the Report. Mr. Krastev said that the submission to the National Assembly of the Annual Report on the State of National Security in 2018 was carried out by art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, etc. 185 of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly. The main objective of the report is to present the executive's assessment of the risks, hazards and threats, of the effectiveness and efficiency of the national security policy in 2018, of the actions the state institutions plan to take in the next period. It was noted that the Annual Report is essential for informing public institutions and civil organisations in other countries, as well as NATO and European Union structures, international organisations on the security policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. A significant place in the report is devoted to problems in the field of demography and to some particularly important aspects of social security, such as the policy of returning to school for children who for one reason or another have dropped out of the education system. During the presentation of the Report it was mentioned that experts from all ministries, intelligence and security services and representatives of the academic community were included in its preparation. Attention was also paid to the main activities carried out by ministries and departments in accordance with their functional obligations in order to implement the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. With regard to the policies carried out in the Transport sector, it is noted in the Report that in 2018 the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the development of the railway infrastructure under the Trans-European and the main national transport axes and the implementation of railway projects. It is also focused on the opportunities for accelerated modernisation and improvement of the provided service by the BDZ Holding EAD, as well as on the repayment of the accumulated liabilities of Holding. During the review of the policies in the sector "Communications" it is assumed that the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure has been adopted, which improves the conditions for the development of high-speed networks and the development of competition in the implementation of electronic communications. The fact that the National roadmap for the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria under Decision (EU) 2017/899 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the use of the 470-790 MNz frequency band in the Union has been adopted, creating conditions for starting the work on providing 5G services in the Republic of Bulgaria and promoting efficient use and ensuring effective management of limited resources is also noted. During the debates on the report the peoples represented Stanislav Ivanov, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. Discussion prompted topics related to road safety, railway security, aviation security, the introduction of toll system on the paid road network and the violation of the functionality of the Trade Register and the register of non-profit legal entities. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, 5 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 3 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902 -19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u140	Thank you, Mr. Milushev. A report from the Committee on Environment and Water is next. Here you go, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At a regular meeting held on 5 September 2019, the Environment and Water Commission discussed and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, adviser to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, and Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. Mr. Georgi Krastev presented the Annual Report on National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, stressing that the preparation of the report is a well-established practice to familiarize society and citizens with the government's assessment of the main risks, dangers and threats to national security, the measures taken in its defence and the expected trends. He pointed out that the topics of environmental status after 2011 traditionally appear in the Annual Report in the section "Relationship man-nature." This gives a good opportunity to carry out environmental policy assessments in the interests of citizens and in order to protect national security. On behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Water, Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova took note of the fact that they participated with their representatives within the Working Group on the Development of the Draft Annual Report and recommended that the report be adopted in this form to the Members of the National Assembly. Mr. Kostadinov commented that he did not see in the summary of the presentation of the Report information about the state of water and water basins, including those about drinking water supply, by clarifying that some of them are in poor condition. He proposed to those who are currently not intended for drinking needs to implement policies to adapt to drinking water by stating that this is not only relevant to water quality but also in the context of climate change. Another issue missing from the report is, according to him, the cross-border element in terms of national security, which is also part of foreign pollution policy, but also in terms of waste transport. Mr. Krastev stressed that the issue of water is undoubtedly important and explained where the report can find the assessment of the state of security in the context of the human-natural attitude. Ms. Ivelina Vasileva stressed that for another year the topics related to the environment and national security are seriously affected in the Annual Report given the risks and threats arising from climate change and the risk to human life and health in terms of pollution, industrial accidents and natural disasters. He expressed his opinion that the issues discussed can be taken into account in the preparation of the Report for next year. He made a recommendation in the 2019 Report, as well as to address the environmental issues thoroughly so far, with regard to air quality not only to particulate pollution. Mr. Genov recommended that more attention should be paid to the quality of control in the 2019 Report. After the discussion and vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 13 votes in favour, without the votes.................................................................................................. He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u142	Thank you, Dr. Grudev. Following is a Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u143	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 17 July 2019 the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The report is drawn up in implementation of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The structure of the report is in line with the structure of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the National Assembly in March 2018. The report presents assessments of the risks, hazards and threats to the effectiveness and effectiveness of national security policies and the actions taken by state institutions to address security threats. Analyses are also presented on the trends in the development of national security risks and the actions that state institutions plan to take in the next period to deal with them. Assessments of domestic political and foreign policy events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict zones outside the borders of the country were made. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests, presenting the activities in sectoral policies to counter the risks and threats to national security. The main tasks in the implementation of the adopted regulatory and strategic acts are outlined as well as accompanying measures to counter the threats to the national security of the country. Regarding security in the field of regional development, the report addresses the issues related to the implementation of projects funded under Operational Programme "Regions in Growth", housing policy and implementation of the program for renovation of residential buildings, implemented projects and state of the road infrastructure, geodefense measures and dealing with landslides, state of the cadastral map and cadastral registers and services provided in the area of the cadastral. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes for the Council of Bulgaria, with no votes against the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902/19, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Next is a Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u145	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. A Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019 was reviewed at a regular meeting of the Culture and Media Committee on 18 July 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Amelia Gesheva Deputy Minister, Tatiana Tzvetanova Director of the Legal and Public Procurement Directorate, Vesela Shtereva Secretary; from the Security Council of the Council of Ministers: Georgi Krastev Secretary, and Lyubomila Stanislavova Secretary of the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importer, the Annual Report was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The structure of the Annual Report is from three sections. The first gives an assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to national security; the second covers the policies for protecting the national security of the country; in the third are the main conclusions on the state of national security and development guidelines. The characteristic of the report is that the activities, results and achievements of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union are presented. Unlike the previous annual reports in the 2018 report, the topic of countering corruption is present at institutional level. The risks, dangers and threats to national security related to cultural heritage concern its physical conservation. The main risks are the security of archaeological sites, the limited resources for the preservation of cultural values through timely and qualitative conservation and restoration, documentation and digitalisation of cultural values, ongoing monitoring and control. The report noted that the potential and criminal association among the high levels of organized criminal groups dealing with trafficking of cultural and historical values is growing. Foreign citizens' involvement in trafficking is increasing. Along with traditional forms for illegal trade in valuable items, this criminal activity is also being carried out via the Internet. In the anti-trafficking operations of cultural and historical values, the export of 5566 movable cultural values was prevented, of which 3042 coins and 2524 antique and medieval objects with high historical, archaeological and nominal value, according to a preliminary estimate of over 20 million. Euros. Eight cross-border channels for trafficking of cultural and historical values have been crossed. In order to carry out the cultural heritage conservation and risk reduction tasks, it is necessary to increase the capacity of the specialized authorities in the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Interior, the Customs Agency and the Ministry of Defence. In order to reduce the risk to cultural heritage should be accepted as provided for in art. 5 of the Cultural Heritage Act Ordinance on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in Disasters and Armed Conflicts. The Annual Report states that the use of false news and facts aims at exercising certain control and pressure on society and its attitudes. The main conduits and channels for the fake news are the social networks of Facebook, Twitter and Internet communications. During the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on 26 April 2018, the European Commission published the Communication.......................................................................................... On the basis of it, a multilateral forum has been convened on disinformation issues, the main task of which was to draw up a common European Union Code of Conduct in relation to misinformation as a means of self-regulation. The Deputy Minister of Culture Mrs Amelia Gesheva took part in the Report on the development of culture and preservation of cultural and historical heritage. During the discussion the MPs Nona Yotova and Diana Savateva asked questions, respectively, about the hacking attacks and about carrying out research on the influence of social networks on the formation of the value system, to which the Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers answered. After a vote, the Committee on Culture and Media with 12 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, with no votes against the Council of Ministers and 3 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Chekanska. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Demographic and Social Policy. Is there a representative of the Commission in this House? I won't. We continue with the Energy Commission Report. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u147	Madam President! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. At its regular meeting held on 18 July 2018, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council; from the Ministry of Energy Mr. Ivan Marinov, Director of the Department of Security and Management in Crisis Situations; Mr. Rosen Simidchiev, Advisor. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The chapter "Energy Security" presents the risks and potential threats to the energy security of the Republic of Bulgaria. They are caused by the following factors: - the high degree of dependence of the country on one supplier of energy resources. The domestic production of natural gas for 2018 provides less than 1% of the total natural gas consumption in the country; - insufficient interconnection of the transmission network of the Republic of Bulgaria with those of the neighbouring countries. In the last three years, significant progress has been seen in the realization of interconnection projects with neighbouring countries, and in 2016 the interconnector Bulgaria was put into operation - Romania - which basically provides the supply of natural gas in a direction from Bulgaria to Romania. In order to ensure reverse capacity, it is necessary for the Romanian side to build the necessary infrastructure. Guaranteeing the security of energy supply through diversification of sources and routes is a key priority for Bulgaria and the European Union. Bulgaria is an integral part of the development of the Southern Gas Corridor through its interconnectors projects with Greece and Turkey. In order to increase energy security and to transform Bulgaria into a significant regional energy centre, the initiatives for energy corridors south-north, north-west, the implementation of the project for gas distribution center "Balkan" as well as the continuation of the processes of exploration and extraction of energy raw materials from own holdings. A negative factor for the energy system remains the unresolved still issue related to the tariff deficit generated in the past. The accumulated price deficit is the most significant in the public electricity supplier "National Electricity Company" EAD, estimated in the World Bank report at 1.9 billion. lv. at the end of 2015. The accumulation of a new deficit has been halted as a result of the legislative, regulatory and management actions taken in the period 2015 to limit the costs of the public provider and to provide additional funds in the system with the creation of the Energy System Security Fund. Essential risk represents the introduced new environmental standards for solid fuel burning plants in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions and the significant increase in greenhouse gas emission allowances prices in 2018. The new emission levels adopted may result in significant costs and/or in the cessation of the operation of some of the plants. The risk represents the increased emergency in the thermal networks of the heating companies as a result of insufficient investment for their rehabilitation and modernisation, as well as the large debt of the heating companies to the "Bulgargaz" EAD. It is characteristic of the heating companies that due to the specific nature of their activity they consume significant amounts of natural gas during the autumn-winter period and do not fully pay their obligations within the agreed deadlines. After the discussion the Energy Committee of the Republic of Bulgaria took place with 11 votes, 7 votes against the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstention supported the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for the adoption of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u148	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Next, a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Mr. Chenchev, please introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u149	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports At its meeting held on 17 July 2019 the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports discussed and discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018, No 902-00-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, and Mr. Asen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The report was prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System and was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The importer stressed that the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018 is the significant volume of presentation of the activities, results and achievements of the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and covers the main problems and solutions in the field of national security in 2018. A significant place in the report is devoted to problems in the field of demography and to some particularly important aspects of social security, such as the policy of returning to school for children who for one reason or another have dropped out of the education system. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests. The work in sectoral policies to combat risks and threats to national security is presented. As one of the main risks to the national security of the country are the adverse demographic trends as well as the insufficient competitiveness of the economy. In the part that falls within the Commission's competence, the importer focuses on the Vision and long-term policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sport for quality youth development, which stimulates the initiative of young people and their organisations and structures for their successful adaptation and realization in public life. Considers the efforts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports to reform the physical education and sport system as a binding component of political, economic and social changes in society. The conclusion is drawn that sport is the most massive institutionalized social movement in the world, the main function of which is the socialization of individuals of different ethnicities and cultures with the primary purpose of realizing and adopting uniform norms and values necessary to maintain social order on a national, regional and global scale. The National Strategy for the Development of Sports 2012 - 2022 and the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 - 2021 of the Ministry of Youth and Sports initiates and implements the National Programme for the Development of Physical Education and Sports 2018 - 2020 which is primarily intended to unite the efforts of all state, public, non-governmental and private organizations to promote physical education, sport and sports tourism activities as a means of improving the health and physical capacity of the population, but also to expand the circle of the sport covered by the Directorate-General for all social groups. Important goals of the Programme are the promotion of the sports prestige of the nation through the implementation of successful European and global practices in the field of physical education and sport, the promotion of physical training and the motor culture of the population, the promotion of sport for excellence, the modernisation of available sports infrastructure and its alignment with the increased needs of citizens for systematic exercise and sport activities. In 2018, in the activities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the security of citizens was taken to the fore without underestimating the tasks of defence, foreign policy, intelligence, as more than ever it becomes apparent that the real meaning of the concept of state security is the need, freedom and dignity of the individual. In this sense, the policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sport is an integral part of the national priorities for neutralizing the risks and threats to the country and its citizens. On the basis of the 10-vote vote, 6-votes against.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-11.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Dear Members of Parliament, this concludes today's plenary session. On this point, the National Assembly will continue to read the next reports and debates. Next regular meeting tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
