ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly on 27 March 2019: "1." First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Bankruptcy Act. Importers are the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019; Daniel Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev on 26 February 2019. 2. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs were introduced on 12 February 2019. He was accepted at the first vote on 14 March 2019. 3. Draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. Yordan Tsonev is the Chairman of the Temporary Committee of inquiry on 20 March 2019. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 18 February 2019. The first vote was adopted on 15 March 2019. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importers are Emil Dimitrov, Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid, Simeon Naydenov and Yavor Notev on 28 February 2019. He was adopted on the first vote on 15 March 2019. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. 7. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions. Importers are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye on 31 January 2019. He was accepted at the first vote on 8 March 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 28 March 2019 8. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Importers are Danail Kirilov and Hamid Hamid on 17 December 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 28 March 2019 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. Point 3 for Thursday 28 March 2019 10. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers are Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019. Point 1 for Friday 29 March 2019 11. Hearing of the Minister of Culture on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on State Support in the Arts. The importer was Diana Sawateva on 22 March 2019. Point 2 for Friday 29 March 2019 12. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed agenda of the current week. They voted 144 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 5. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 March 2019 to 26 March 2019: Draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens. Yordan Tsonev is the importer. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Energy. A bill for prevention of adverse climatic events. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Report on the activities of the Economic and Social Council for 2018. Importer is the Economic and Social Council. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Message: In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the Programme Budgets for 2018 from: the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the State Agency. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONSTITUTION. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u2	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019 and No 954-01-9, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev on 26 February 2019. At a meeting held on 21 March 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined those draft laws. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova. The proposed bill introduces the provisions of Directive (EU) 2017/2399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 which partly harmonise the order of claims on unsecured debt instruments in the event of insolvency of banks and investment firms. Harmonisation refers to the order of claims of holders of unsecured senior debt instruments that are acceptable for the purposes of the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities under Directive 2014/59/EU of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms and the Standard for the total loss-taking capacity of the Financial Stability Board, in particular the requirement for subordinatedity. Recognition of the new line of claims on unsecured senior debt instruments for the purposes of the minimum own funds requirement and eligible liabilities will allow the banks to reduce the costs of complying with the subordination requirement. Institutions will be able to continue to issue, for the purposes of their financing or for other operational reasons, the ordinary first-rate debt relating to less costs and to issue debt from the new underprivileged first-class class in order to obtain funding subject to the subordination requirement. The proposed amendments to the Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act reflect the supervisory treatment of the various types of debt instruments and are also necessary in order to synchronise the order of claims in the event of bank insolvency with the rules on the procedure for write-off and conversion of debt under the law for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. This is necessary in view of the basic principle of restructuring, according to which creditors and owners should not bear any greater losses in restructuring than they would have incurred in bankruptcy. With the adoption of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, the Bulgarian legislation will be brought into line with the law of the European Union. The bill with importer of the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs was presented by the National Representative Yordan Tsonev. The Law proposes the maximum completion of the insolvency table by limiting the costs of insolvency in the proceedings, including on procedural representation, as well as the envisaged power of the trade union to sell, through direct negotiation, assets and rights which cannot in practice be realised through public sale. The proposed amendments provide clarity, specifying explicitly the round of parties to judicial proceedings from which no State charge is collected in advance and determining the number of unsuccessful public sales, and then proceed to their direct negotiation. The provision of a professional entry of creditors on the list of claims accepted by the trade union will guarantee their rights in the event of a declaration of invalidity of a set-off. In this way, a level playing field will be established between the bank and creditors, in so far as the Bank's claim in the event of a declaration of invalidity will resume its existence until the creditor's claim to it will not be deemed to have been repaid due to its failure to provide it within a period of time. The proposed amendment will have no impact on the bankruptcy table, nor will it give undue advantage to some of the bank's creditors. After a discussion of the drafts, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: on the draft submitted by the Council of Ministers: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the bills amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019 and No 954-01-9, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Hristian Mitev on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. He will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 954-01-9, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Hamid Bari Hamid and Hristian Radev Mitev on 26 February 2019. At its meeting, held on 13 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 954-01-9, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Hamid Bari Hamid and Hristian Radev Mitev on 26 February 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov E.D. Ms. Rositsa Petkova, PhD expert in the Directorate of the Financial Markets and from the Bulgarian National Bank: Ms. Elena Dimitrova, Head of Team in the Directorate of Legal Affairs and Ms. Nelly Madanska, Head of Department in the Directorate of Credit Institutions Restructuring and from the Fund for Guarantee of Banks: Mrs. Nevena Radeva, Head of Legal Consult and from the Corporate Commercial Bank, announced in bankruptcy: Mr. Angel Donov and Mrs. Kristi Marinova Syndicates. The bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, was presented by Mr. Simeonov, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/2399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 amending Directive 2014/59/EU in relation to the order of claims on unsecured debt instruments in insolvency. He added that the purpose of the proposed amendments is to harmonise the hierarchy of creditors in the event of insolvency of banks and investment firms and to create legal certainty in the application of the procedure for the allocation of cash assets by introducing a new additional class of creditors who hold an unprivileged unsecured senior debt. Mr. Simeonov explained that the recognition of the new order of claims on unsecured senior debt instruments will retain the current allocation privileges, but will ensure that the holders of unsecured senior debt will rank higher than the claims originating in equity or subordinated debt. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 954-01-9, was presented by Mr. Kirilov, who pointed out that it precises the legal provisions, limits the costs of legal proceedings and explicitly specifies the parties to legal proceedings from which no state fee is collected in advance. The draft law proposes to introduce the possibility of selling on the basis of direct negotiation and lays down the terms and conditions of this procedure in the power of the trade union. In order to maximize the volume of insolvency, it is envisaged that after three unsuccessful public procedures for the sale of property and claims should proceed to the sale of assets through direct negotiation, thus implementing assets which cannot in practice be depreciated through public sale. In order to preserve the interests of the creditors of the bank declared in bankruptcy, the Bill also regulates the professional entry of creditors on the list of claims accepted by the insolvency practitioner when the detention is recognised by the court as invalid against the bank. Mr. Donov described the proposed texts as justified and necessary. Members of the National Assembly Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov took part in the discussion. The MPs expressed their support to the bills, such as Mr. Mitev and Mr. Dimitrov pointed out that between first and second reading they will make proposals for precision on the possibility of selling assets through direct negotiation and added that there should be a balance between the need for quick cashing and the interests of creditors. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 10 votes in favour, without the votes against and abstention, propose to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019; - with 10 votes in favour, without the votes of the President of the National Assembly, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 954-01-9, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev, Hamid Bari Hamid and Hristian Radev Mitev on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The third report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u6	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. At its regular meeting on 6 March 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Ms. Tsvetanka Mihailova, Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and Ms. Polya Peykova and Mrs. Rositsa Petkova, experts in the same Directorate, as Mrs. Elena Dimitrova, Head of team in the Directorate of Legal Markets, and Ms. Nelly Madanska, Head of the Department of Legal Service at the Directorate of the Ministry of Credit Institutions. The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act aims to introduce in the Bulgarian legislation the provisions of Directive (EU) 2017/2399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 amending Directive 2014/59/EU as regards the order of claims on unsecured debt instruments in the event of insolvency. The time limit for transposition is 29 December 2018. Directive (EU) 2017/2399 partly harmonises the hierarchy of creditors in the insolvency of banks and investment firms. Harmonisation refers to the order of claims of holders of unsecured senior debt instruments that are acceptable for the purpose of minimum own funds requirement and eligible liabilities under Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms and the standard for the total loss-making capacity of the Financial Stability Board, in particular the requirement for subordinatedity. A new additional class of creditors has been introduced supplied senior debt holders, which should have a higher order than holders of equity and subordinated debt instruments and a lower row than holders of other non-secure senior debt instruments. This requires a change in art. 94 of the Bankruptcy Act, which regulates the order of creditors in bank insolvency. This legislation does not reflect the specifics of financial instruments with different levels of subordinatedity issued by institutions and undertakings in countries with more developed financial systems. With the proposed version of art. 94 of the Bankruptcy Act also aims to ensure compliance with the procedure for taking losses in the restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms under the Recovery and Restructuring Act of credit institutions and investment firms. Within the scope of Directive (EU) 2017/2399, investment firms, as well as certain financial institutions, mixed financial holding companies and mixed financial holding companies, to which the rules of general commercial insolvency laid down in Part Four of the Commercial Law apply. The transitional and final provisions of the proposed bill introduce the relevant amendments to the Commercial Law in order to fully transpose the requirements of the Directive. The adoption of this bill aims to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with European law, to ensure legal certainty and to provide the necessary legal positions to build the capacity to absorb losses and recapitalisation of banks and investment firms. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed unanimously, with 6 votes for the National Assembly, to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. Will there be an importer's opinion? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I can't see. Please take your seats. We're going to vote. Colleagues, I vote on the first draft amendment and supplement to the Bankruptcy Act, No 902-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. I also put to the vote the second draft amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act, No 954-01-9, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Hristian Mitev on 26 February 2019. They voted 114 MPs: 109, none, abstention 5. The proposal is accepted, and with that, both bills. Mrs. Stoyanova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I ask that you vote on the period between the first and second reading of the combined bills be six days from the date of their unification.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u9	There must be a united report first.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u10	Okay, I'll do it then...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u11	Do it and then, Mrs. Stoyanova, we are available. Moving on to item two on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLETION OF THE LAW FOR MANAGEMENT OF THE VEHICLE BY THE EUROPEAN STRUCTURAL AND INVESTIGATION FUNDS. From the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u12	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The Act for Supplement to the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u14	According to paragraph one has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only: I'm the only one. Paragraph 6a is inserted in the additional provisions: 6a. Judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers in the judicial authorities may participate in implementing and/or managing projects with a beneficiary or partner, the Supreme Judicial Council, which shall finance measures relating to the implementation of the updated judicial reform strategy and the Strategy for the introduction of electronic governance and electronic justice, subject to the rules on the avoidance of double funding and eligibility of expenditure. In this case, judges, prosecutors, investigators and judicial officers in the judicial authorities shall be regarded as persons under art. 49, para. 3 and the activities are awarded by the entrusted project manager or coordinator.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of a paragraph only on the Commission's report. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Moving on to item three on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE LEARNING OF ALL DATA, FACTS AND ASSISTANCES IN THE EUROPEAN AND BULGARIAN MEDIA TROUBLE FOR THE SCANDAL UNDERSTANDING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY. Is there anyone who can introduce him to us? Mr. Hamid. Mr. Tsonev has presented us with the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to you a draft decision on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of a scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens, with reasons for it. ? RESPONSIBILITY? extending the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the alleged in European and Bulgarian media allegations of a scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED prolongs the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of a scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals for three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I don't see any. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a draft decision to extend the period of validity of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of a scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens, which Mr Hamid has just read. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're going to point four. THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, to present us with the Second Voting Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u18	Thank you, Madam President. "Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 954-01-8, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 18 February 2019, adopted on the first vote on 15 March 2019.' The Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u19	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make an editorial amendment and to do it: the Law for the Amendment of the Election
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's editorial amendment to make a Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text on the title of the Bill with the so-made change. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, on the balcony of the plenary is a delegation of the Friendship Group with Bulgaria in the parliament of the Republic of Croatia, led by its President Mario Habek, who are visiting us today. Please welcome them to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause.]] Thanks, guys. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §1 is being created: ................................................................................... Article 14 is amended as follows: ? Formation of polling stations outside the country Art. 14. Election sections outside the country shall be formed: 1. where there is a diplomatic or consular representation in the presence of not less than 20 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; 2. out of t. 1 in the case of not less than 40 voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections shall be formed only in Member States of the European Union; 3. in places where no less than 100 voters have voted; the list of seats and the estimated number of sections in each place shall be announced by the Central Election Commission no later than 50 days before the election day; in elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria such sections shall be formed only in the Member States of the European Union; 4. outside the places under point 4. 1. 3 at the discretion of the heads of diplomatic and consular representations on the basis of the total number of applications submitted or the total number of voters in previous elections, including where the number of applications submitted for a specific place is less than 40; the heads of the diplomatic or consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria shall send a reasoned proposal to the Central Election Commission no later than 22 days before the election day. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u23	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal restores the old text that existed before the so-called limit of 35 sections for countries outside the territory of Bulgaria and the European Union was introduced. We believe that our proposal eliminates an injustice, a discriminatory attitude towards Bulgarians living in third countries, outside the territory of Bulgaria and outside the territory of the European Union. With this restriction, with this limit for sections, honourable Members, it is a prerequisite that thousands or hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens cannot exercise their right to vote. I think our proposal is in line with both the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and European practice in this regard. Please support the text proposed by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 21, against 44, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u26	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new § 2 shall be created: ..................................................... Art. 36, para. 2... to The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u27	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 104 MPs: 20, against 44, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u28	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new § 3 shall be created: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2, p. 7 and so on. 8 to The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u29	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to that in art. 38, para. 2 points 7 and 8 contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would just like to recall the texts of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to make clear what is included in these points 7 and 8 in para. 2. In the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 26 it is written that the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, wherever they are, have all the rights and obligations under this Constitution. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 of the Constitution it is said that the elections, national and local referendums are produced on the basis of a common, equal and direct selective right by secret ballot. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 of our Constitution are defined and the citizens who will vote: The citizens who are 18 years old, with the exception of those who are incarcerated and who are being punished for imprisonment, are entitled to elect state and local authorities and to participate in inquiries to the people. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 38, para. 2, colleagues, note what points 7 and 8 contain. First, the section is a list of deleted persons. We are erasing individuals, and we are not creating the order for citizens to be able to exercise their constitutional right to vote, as I read in the texts of the Constitution. Point 7 states that the citizens who have a current address at the date of drawing up the electoral lists in a country which is not a member of the European Union will be deleted from the electoral lists. On what grounds, colleagues? This is in total contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. If necessary, we will read the relevant texts several more times. Article 42 says that only citizens who are incarcerated and who suffer imprisonment may not vote. And in the others, especially in art. 26 colleagues, it is said that the Bulgarian citizens, no matter where they are, have all the rights and obligations under the Constitution. And here with some address we deprive the Bulgarian citizen of his constitutional right. The next text in item. 8 has the same content. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 is about elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, etc. 8 is about local elections. I see that Mr. Markov is listening very carefully, and I will therefore ask him to take account of matters relating to the Constitution, as a prominent constitutionalist, and to deal with a breach of the Constitution. Therefore, my call, colleagues, is: let us put the Election Code in sync and within the framework of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, because in our Constitution it is said that the Constitution is a supreme law and the other laws cannot contradict it! Let's not create laws that contradict the Constitution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 108 MPs: 26, against 44, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u32	Long live democracy... And the law...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u33	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 1, t. 6 words including the video recordings under art. 219, para. 2 recorded in a technical vehicle
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u34	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1. They voted 109 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u35	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 181, para. the second sentence is added with the following content: In cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u36	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, with the proposed proposal, we propose that when the campaign is conducted in a language other than the Bulgarian one, there should be an official translation. Thus, we guarantee that all participants in the electoral process will understand what our guest from Germany, from Britain, from Italy says. We live in a huge European family and, unfortunately, not all of us know Bulgarian. Therefore, I think it is not democratic, it is not European to forbid all our European friends from welcoming as guests at our meetings, to welcome Mr. Veller, Mr. Van Balen, Mr. Stanishev... Ah, excuse me, Mr. Stanishev knows Bulgarian, but that's his problem. [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] . So, fellow Members, I ask you with our proposal to abolish this dark ban, which, in addition to discriminating our European friends, discriminates and a huge part of Bulgarian citizens. Because, colleagues, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria together with the definition of the Bulgarian language as official, guarantees the right to study and use the mother tongue. I see nothing wrong with a politician turning around and congratulating his followers in the local rural cafeteria in mother tongue. This, colleagues, is not a state protocol that we stick to formality, to protocol, so support it so that there are no fines, so that there are no funny situations such as in previous elections, Mr. Yordan Tsonev, without knowing a word in Turkish, was fined that he spoke in Turkish only because of one greeting. [[Replications from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u38	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u39	Of course, the Bulgarian court annulled all these penal decrees as discriminatory, repealed them, so I ask you to do the same and cancel this ban as discriminatory. Thank you in advance for your support. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u41	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't understand why we've been talking to euphemisms for so many years, why we haven't called things by their real names, we don't call what colleagues want to name. I do not understand why the DPS frankly did not insert the text and specifically state the campaign during campaigns in Turkish? It is not here to hide that it is about speaking during the campaign in German, French or any other languages, not that factors from the European Union have just been listed several names of European leaders... The question is, if Erdogan, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey, was it called Chavusoglu...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u42	You don't have to list them all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u43	I don't understand what political demagogy is! And what is this talk about this mother tongue, about several more such symbolic concepts and words that are used. It's about, I repeat, in Turkish and no other language!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u44	But write it down in the Law...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u45	No other language! And why don't the DPS make their proposals to be clear and let people know what this lie, fraud and demagogy is? To write down their proposal to use the words "Turkish language" and then to argue, to comment. It's not about anything else, it's about concrete. Let's be honest, let's tell each other the truths, let's be genuine, unwrong. So that's what this is about, and there's nothing to be fooled about. By the way, it's unnecessary to say it and to say it. We all know what this is about and the whole Bulgarian people know what this is about. I appeal to colleagues from GERB: what is this abstention, colleagues, of such proposals? You saw on a national television this morning what comes out about the minority yesterday, the informal, unreal, and a true leader of the DPS. He's been making a message for the past few days and saying something about this relationship. It's clear we're gonna play the good cop and the bad cop. This game is played for two or three years. Enough, and we have demagogized the abstentions of such a frank, genuinely contrary proposal to the Constitution. It is an unconstitutional proposal that we vote with a strong opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will again recall the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 4, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is said that: the international treaties ratified by constitutional order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the domestic law of the country. They shall take precedence over those domestic legislation which they are subject to. This is about one such text. If we look at Directive 109 of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the European Union, who are not Bulgarian citizens, have the right to choose local authorities and Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria if there is an address of residence in the Republic of Bulgaria. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, those citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens, even have the right to be candidates in the respective types of elections. I give you an example: such citizens live in the village of Lomtsi, Popovo municipality; the village of Kostandenets, the municipality of Tsar Kaloyan; the village of Pisanets, Roussensko and so on We all know from our contacts that they do not speak well Bulgarian language, but have the right to choose and be elected. And such a citizen, when he is a candidate, ladies and gentlemen, in what language should he campaign for his neighbours? That's what this is about. And otherwise, for specific languages. If there are any special emotions, specific languages can be listed to be banned. However, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the relevant documents that we have ratified and governed the way of holding the elections for local authorities and for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria. So I call on you to support the text proposed by us: when using a language other than the official language, there should be a translation of the campaign concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u49	Shalom aleihem! As you can see, there is no discrimination. It's not my mother tongue, it's my father tongue, and I can talk to him calmly. But when I go to talk to my constituents, I don't speak Hebrew, not just because I don't know it well, but because in the Constitution, which Mr. Karadaye called for us to observe it, it says that every Bulgarian citizen must have a basic education and know Bulgarian. The Bulgarian language in the country is official and therefore I do not see the problem in the campaigns to speak entirely in the official language. We know very well that back in time, there was a case in which a Turkish president spoke without a translator, and then he wasn't punished, and that is also a problem, so we from "United Patriarchs" and from the IMRO can't support this text, including me. Although my father's language is different, I continue and think that we should conduct our campaigns only in the official language in the country which is Bulgarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. - What's the line? Mr. Hamid, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Shalom, Mr. Siddy! Let's read the Constitution to the end. The same Constitution our Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria guarantees the right to study and use the mother tongue. We see this guarantee in the Election Code, that's what we're talking about. I mean, even if you don't agitate in your mother tongue, don't you have the right to say so much to them and pass them in Bulgarian? Why should you be fined for telling a group of people in the local cafeteria? Why all the sanctions? We can't figure that out?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Second line? Mr. Tsonev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u53	By going to defend a cause, using expressions from foreign languages, and I would like to address you to the native of your father, Hebrew: the Bereshite Bar Elohim. This is the first sentence of Genesis, Chapter 1.. the first book of the Torah of the Old Testament. In the Faculty of Theology, we studied Hebrew, so we know something. I can't say that if I go to a meeting with your father and you's countrymen, but to tell Mr. Shopov: Dear Mr. Shopov...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u54	Mr. Tsonev, the line is for Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u55	Not in relation to the previous statements. Okay, I'll take that. I had to make a line for Mr. Shopov. The translation from the language used in Bulgarian ensures that the entire campaign is conducted in Bulgarian, that everything that is said as a greeting or as some other kind of sentences is immediately translated and the content is available. In this norm, I and the last time I told you that I see, apart from the historical deposits, the historical atavism and so on, and a pseudopatriotic pumping of our Bulgarian self-consciousness and the Bulgarian statehood. We do not need this, honourable Members. We are a country with 1300 years of history, with traditions and there is no need with such pseudonormals to pump our minds, to violate the Constitution and European directives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Is there gonna be a next line? Third line, Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Siddy, I do not agree with your speech, as you did not actually comment on Mr Karadayi's proposal from the DPS and a group of MPs, which says that the campaign is conducted in another language, not a whole campaign, not an address, not a greeting, all the messages, the whole campaign is conducted in another language and you should remind your colleagues from the DPS who made this proposal that art. 3 of the Constitution, which states that the official language is the Bulgarian language, is located in the main chapter, which defines the principles by which the state structure of the Republic of Bulgaria is built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Siddy, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u59	In the case of shaloma and salam, the root is the same, you know?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u60	That's right. I'm impressed he has such knowledge of Hebrew in this room. That's great! I would like to remind you that the official language in the country is Bulgarian and the production of elections is an official event. So these two things written in the Constitution actually determine the inability to accept this type of change, because ultimately the mother tongue, or in my case, the father tongue, I can use it in the cafeteria without any problem, but at an official event, of course, we need to speak the official language in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Siddy. You're welcome, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u62	Madam President, you should have made a remark to Mr. Mitev that he was trying to mislead the MPs in this Chamber. The proposal made by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is that in cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. I hope that Mr. Mitev understands the proposal and deliberately tries to mislead the MPs. I am convinced, Madam President, that you too understand the text, and when someone deliberately misleads the MPs and perverts the proposals made, it would be appropriate to make a remark to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. All MPs have the proposal before them, so I think that's more than enough. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The Bulgarian state gives individual rights to citizens, does not give rights to communities, minorities and so on. Every Bulgarian citizen is free in our country to speak in the language of whether he is a mother, whether he is another and so on, but when it comes to elections something important in a democracy, perhaps the most important thing, because he determines the life, the policy of the state who will manage it, how people will live, we must take into account the campaign to be in Bulgarian. And I can't figure out why the DPS is always picking on this topic. I think you should be the first people to call for this as Bulgarian citizens, as people who claim to be representatives of the Bulgarian Party, to stand up and say even to events, to a rally, to anything when someone starts speaking in another language: excuse me, we are in our country of Bulgaria, we must respect our Constitution, we must respect the Bulgarian language because it is official. Let us, when we sit in another place in the family, in a pub, speak in any language we want, but when we make an official event, we must speak in Bulgarian to show respect for our homeland, which is common. The official language of Bulgaria is the Bulgarian language. So you must be the people to call for this to show that you respect the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. First line, Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This topic does not bear witness to it, as Mr. Angelov said, the subject is quite seriously conceived by the Venice Commission, the limited OSCE monitoring mission, the Council of Europe in several reports, in a hot and persistent recommendation: to remove this discriminatory text, which is already contained in a number of European documents, for which Bulgaria is being made deaf and blind. Don't manipulate the subject merely by the DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. It's Mr. Hamid's line, not Mr. Ivanov's. Maybe it's Mr. Ivanov's card?! [[Laughter]] Mr. Ivanov didn't even notice he was speaking from the stands. You just spoke from the stands, Mr. Ivanov. Second line, Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u68	Mr. Angelov, I'm surprised you're trying to speak well, speak legally, refer to the Constitution, by the way...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u69	Which is commendable.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u70	...whatever mistake I make in all these cases there are no arguments. There is a will, claim, desire, policy of the Turkish nationalist party in Bulgaria DPS...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u71	Get him out of here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u72	Please, Mr. Shopov! Mr. Shopov, I'm making a note.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u73	This is my qualification, Madam President, and no one can...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u74	I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u75	...to stop me, that's my firm opinion. This position has been supported by the DPS since the very beginning of the transition from the first National Assembly, in which the DPS was presented, invariably, continuously and every attempt that is being made is for measuring the temperature in the Bulgarian society. So such arguments here for legality, reference to opinions of other foreign institutions, bodies and organisations have absolutely no meaning. The same was said by Ahmed Dogan, the same was said by the former real leader of DPS Lutvi Mestan. We saw him on TV this morning, the same was said by the current real leader, or more precisely the nominal leader of the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u76	Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u77	These are constantly trying to measure the temperature how we're going to react, how hard we're going to be, how we're going to deal with it. There is no room for reference to the Constitution. The things are very clear, Mr. Angelov, they are indisputable and from now on the DPS has several ideas, several topics with which...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u78	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u79	... is trying to get out in front of his electorate and every chance they will put them as a sample in the Bulgarian society.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u81	Thank you, Madam President. You're right, Mr. Shopov, there are no legal arguments, there are others that are clear to all of us. To a colleague at the DPS, who had recommended what to us? Well, they recommend us to recognize 31 genders, all kinds of organizations, institutions and so on recommending gay marriages, recommending the Istanbul Convention, recommending the Migration Pact. Do we have to accept them? The state to destroy it and destroy it?! What someone recommends is not necessary. Anyone can recommend what they want. This country, our country Bulgaria, and the politicians and the Bulgarian parties in parliament decide what they will accept and what is not, what is right and what is not right for the state, so who recommends what... We have seen a lot of nonsense about what is happening in Europe and that is why Europe is changing right now. All the crap that European politicians have done over the last 20 years, now they're denying it and looking for another time. Next time we hold on to it from the United Patriarchs, to preserve the state, the integrity of the state, to respect the laws, to respect the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian language, this is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u82	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Atalay, you have a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I see that when...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u84	Put your card on, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u85	There won't be any problem with the map. She's always been here. The point is, your card's been lost lately.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u86	I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u87	You can see it. I see that you are warming up the hall with a topic that is painful for the whole public, a topic that is really worth it. At least those who feel like Democrats will go out on the stand and say once and for all: will we pass laws that will be implemented or will we fulfill the emotions of the so-called Patriots? In order not to speak a language that exists all over the world, a language that is real in Bulgaria, a language that is practiced in a family where it is spoken in Turkish. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u88	Colleagues, please! You have an opportunity for lines. Proceed, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u89	Colleagues, I see that you are expressing some other extrahuman feelings, which is not accepted and is not good in this House, but to return to your word: language is wealth, language is tolerance, language is bliss, learn Turkish, you will not lose, learn English, you will not lose. Colleagues, in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we have never doubted that the Bulgarian language is the official language, for what do you repeat it?! Mr. Shopov, do you have any doubt that the Bulgarian language is official? We want, when there are agitators, to adopt such a law that is applicable, and when I come out and in Turkish I explain to those people who do not know Bulgarian, to have a person who can translate to them in Bulgarian, to those who know, and those who understand Turkish, to know what I am agitating them for, that I am agitating them to go to the National Assembly, to adopt those laws, to raise their standard of living, not to do so that today some people are ashamed to appear in parliament. Mr. Shopov, gentlemen of the United Patriarchs, I doubt that in the next Parliament you will be in such a composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u90	Mr. Atalay, it's a voter's job.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u91	I don't understand you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u92	It's a voter's job.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u93	I doubt you'll be in the same line of work. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u94	The voter will say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u95	Let's get back to our word, get back to our word. We propose that we finally take the step in Bulgaria. You know that everywhere we go on an election campaign is spoken in the mother tongue. With me, the problem with my grandson is father's language, as with you, Mr. Siddy, but I understand that you don't know father's language, which is also a problem. Colleagues, the problem is common here by the National Assembly, if we do not come out with clarity to say that there are Turkish speakers in Bulgaria and they can be spoken in Turkish, that there are people who speak in gypsy and can speak in gypsy with them, we will not see progress in the country. The Europeans offered us the Istanbul Conference, a convention... [[Replys from "United Patriarchs: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u96	Yes, well done, of course. The conference is held there, the Convention there is signed and see how much progress there is in this Convention. Don't just stop at those things that are real. I don't mean if there's any difference between us in this room, but we have to admit it. What are we running from, or are you going to turn around here, too, as GERB has been doing lately? [[Heckling]] I'll take the floor on preferences and try to explain it to you then and the checkhand. But, colleagues, this problem is very important.. it is not Shopov's problem, we agreed with him who will get to know us and how he will get to know us, it is you, gentlemen in charge. Let's make sure that we make a law that is effective, not make a law that opens the courts or someone after me listens to me if I speak Turkish, or at least if we speak some other dialect of Vrachanski, whether someone should come and translate us into Bulgarian, even in Bankan. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. First line, Mr. Veselinov. Once the procedure is completed, I'll give Mr. Shopov a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u98	Mrs. Chairman! I'm far from the idea of interfering with Mr. Atalay's attempts to get to know Mr. Shopov. The reason I'm going out is because of something else. Because here for some time the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is constantly referring to the Constitution, but it is practically working against it. Part of the Constitution and its Preamble categorically state the unilateral nature of our state.. the unity of the Bulgarian nation, a nation of which you are part, and your voters, who, if you put a little enthusiasm at least in convincing them that they should learn Bulgarian and that they should feel part of this nation, this debate will be meaningless. It is clear that it is not about the English who live in all the other villages you have listed, because then you would be betting in the text that the campaign can be conducted, say, in the official languages for the European Union, which is the hypothesis. It is clear that it is specifically about the Turkish language and the desire to continue to breed and alienate your voters from the Bulgarian nation. Our concept is reversed, and that's why we're Patriots. The Bulgarian Turks are part of the Bulgarian nation. They should speak Bulgarian, fulfill their constitutional obligation to learn Bulgarian language and the campaign to be led in Bulgarian language among them. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Second line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Atalay, my line is that you once again bury the Bulgarian Patriots and throw them out of parliament. I would remind you that from the previous Parliament, from the previous National Assembly, the DPS also had such a policy, including you, including your then leader Mr. Mestan, who constantly buried the Patriots and said that they would no longer enter the Bulgarian Parliament. We're happy when the DPS is burying us! That means we're really gonna make it. And in the previous parliament, when you buried us, what happened? We, the Patriots, for the first time removed the DPS from the third place in the Bulgarian policy in both the presidential elections and the parliamentary elections! So don't bury us! [[Applause and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Third line, Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, perhaps the other lines would have been unnecessary if you had reminded the Members of the National Assembly. 36, para. 2 of our Constitution and I have to remind you of it for you. Article 36, para. 2 of our Constitution, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, states: [[(Applause from the DPS and a reply from the National Representative Hamid Hamid:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Mr. Atalay, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u104	Thank you. Of course, Art. 36, para. Two colleagues from the fences and passports don't read them. This term doesn't exist for them. As for unity, for unity, we have unity with you, Mr. Sincerely, but you separate from us. [[Laughter, cheering and cheering in OP: * Shirt, buy the shirt!]] Mr. Vesselinoff, you know him very well. I think there is none of the DPS that has separated from its Bulgarian citizenship [[From the nation, from the nation!]] , by loving Bulgaria, by living in Bulgaria, by working five times as hard as you for Bulgaria! [[Replies from the OP: "From the nation, from the nation! "]] As for the funeral home, it's your job. Keep your funeral desks up. Don't look for him in the DPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Personal explanation Mr. Shopov. Then in the manner of holding Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u106	I can't help but take the floor for a personal explanation, since Mr. Atalay has mentioned my name three times, as if I were the bearer of this thesis, and I'm the DPS's biggest handler. If so, I'm flattered. [[DSS and DSS lines]] , because many times we from Ataka, and from United Patriarchs.................................................................................................... [[DRF raging]] ▪ What it has created throughout the history of transition, and today it is evident that it is. I'm not going to respond specifically to Mr. Atalay's ambiguities, but he's usually picked up, so he's a quiet man. At the moment, there was a particular viciousness, I would say, even though he was speaking silently and instructively. But I ask myself: is Turkey having problems with Kurdish mother tongue in the country during election campaigns? Of course not. [[Replies from DPS: "Speak about Bulgaria! "]] Of course not. Is there a problem in Eastern Thrace for the Bulgarian language? There is no, of course, in Eastern Thrace, in Adrianople, in Lozengrad. Why not? Because hundreds of thousands were those who, in 1913, 1914, left, deBulgarian. And these thousands and hundreds of thousands have not reached the borders of Bulgaria, have simply been slaughtered, slaughtered on the ground. That is why there is no such problem in Eastern Thrace and Turkey right now! [[DPS Replies: "Source, weather!"]] As an end to this statement and a personal explanation: I will continue to insist in this Parliament and as long as I am alive that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u107	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u108	Carthage must be destroyed and destroyed!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Procedure in the manner of conduct....... please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u110	Madam President, I'm addressing you with one request. While speaking both myself and my colleagues, I did not allow myself to in any way offend a colleague from the DSS or to make a qualification. True, I spoke emotionally, but emotion must be inherent to everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u111	That's right, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u112	But you allowed the front row of the DPS group and Mr. Hamid, and others, to make qualifications while I was speaking, given that I did not offend them in any way which is not right and moral for me. At the very least, I hope you make a remark to them, as well as to Mr. Atalay, who previously used qualifications. My request is that you make a remark to them, because it is not normal when a person speaks correctly, even with emotion, without insulting anyone, without in any way making qualifications for them, to allow them to do so in any way. That's what they're talking about, but that's another question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Angelov, I'll be more precise in holding a meeting next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u114	Then in the manner of conduct, if you will be more precise.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u115	Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u116	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a procedure in the way that you are fully guided so that you do not apply double archin again, but on the contrary that you strictly follow the Rules of Procedure and to your coalition partners, because just a minute ago Mr. Shopov explained how, looking in the mirror, he saw a lot of malice and quoted another name. When IMRO's colleague spoke, he explained how we were interfering with the unity of the nation, referring to communist ideologies: the unity of the nation understand without this bouquet you see in the plenary and among all Bulgarian citizens the differences of ethnicities, religions and languages. I don't know how you understand the unity of the nation.! Bigger insult than that?! We are all patriots here and in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms we love our homeland! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by DPS: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u117	Of course, Mr. Letifov, we are all patriots in this room, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u118	Ah, I have doubts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u119	Your right. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we are going to vote on the creation of a new § 4. The proposal is from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 116 MPs: 24, against 62, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u120	................................................................................... Article 298 is repealed. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 1, which becomes § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The number of votes received for the applicant shall be no less than 7 per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u121	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the text proposed in the Commission Report on § 1, as amended by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 88, against 12, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u122	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 2 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u123	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 because it reflects its systematic position in a new § 2. Vote 104 MPs: 88 against 9, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u124	.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 302, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 3 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u125	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 3 to be rejected. Voted 103 MPs: 87, against 13, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u126	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 350, para. 1 words have lived for at least the last three months in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u127	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposal to create a new paragraph not supported by the Commission? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 26, against 64, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u128	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? Art. 360 "to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are voting on the proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs art. 360 drop with the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 23, against 67, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u130	............................................ This Decision shall enter into The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4, which becomes § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The number of votes received for the applicant shall be no less than 5 per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u131	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal on the version of § 4 proposed in the Report, which becomes § 3. They voted 106 MPs: for 93, against 13, no abstentions. The proposal for a new § 3 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u132	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 5 of the importer, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u133	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3. They voted 102 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u134	........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 392, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 386, para. The The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 6 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u135	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 6 by importer to be rejected. Vote 97 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u136	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 396 A.D. 1 words have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective settlement to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u137	Are there any who wish to speak on the proposal made by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 15 against 65, 20 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u138	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 words have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective locality. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u139	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs! I will read again carefully the proposal: they have lived for at least the last 6 months in the respective settlement to drop out. This is our proposal, which is in direct collaboration with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide the opportunity, namely the state, for these Bulgarian citizens to have the right to vote. But what do we see? With these changes that we are proposing in the right direction, the ruling majority is likely to reject them. We call, however, for reason, especially to the Political Party GERB, which is supposed to be the People's Party, which is in the large European family and is led as a systemic party, to support this text of ours, otherwise we will believe that it supports the fascist organizations that are against these amendments. Why? [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u141	Excuse me, Mr. Ibryamov, you have allowed yourself a qualification for both Party GERB and other members of parliament parties. Please! I pay attention in the rest of your speech to keep an account of the language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u142	My tongue is very correct, Mr. Chairman. I do not use the poisonous language that we have just heard from the right side of parliament, because in this way we remain outside the possibility that more than two million Bulgarian citizens will have the right to vote, but we are giving the new Bulgarians the opportunity through that Commission, governed by the small coalition, to give Bulgarian citizenship to the knee and registration of Trafoposts, to vote during whatever elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u143	They live in the Trafoposts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u144	Yeah, they live in the Traphopos. You see what a big paradox is obtained by Bulgarian citizens born in Bulgaria, but for economic reasons or deliberately exiled from the Republic of Bulgaria not to have the right to vote. What if this isn't anticonstitutional?! Therefore, honourable Members, especially honourable colleagues from GERB, show that you really are a European party and do not measure with double archin. Yes, here your true face will show that real populism and nationalism are also among you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u145	Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Mr. Ibryamov? I can't see. Any other comments on the proposed text? There are no requests for speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, which refers to the text of art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 and not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 17 against 67, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u146	.................................................... This Decision shall The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In The number of votes received for the applicant shall be not less than 7 per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u147	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for § 7, which shall become § 4. Vote 108 MPs: 88 against 15, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u148	According to § 8 of the importer there is a proposal made by the National Representative Christian Mitev: In § 8 of art. 454a, para. 2 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 8 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u149	Are there any speeches? Mr. Mitev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Our proposal is: the preference for a candidate for municipal councillor to be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than 20 percent of the votes submitted for the candidate list. We believe that this threshold in the selection of municipal councillors is more adequate than the previous one proposed by the importer, namely 7 percent of the votes submitted for the candidate list. Until now, in local elections, especially in smaller municipalities, it has been possible to rearrange the entire candidate list with a hundred votes, or, otherwise, only with the votes of its family, or of its kind, or with respect to its employees, the candidate for municipal councillor may win a seat in the local self-government body. Unfortunately, it is the low 7 per cent threshold that creates this opportunity and therefore opportunities to use a corporate controlled vote and even resort to buying votes in order to win the seat in the municipal council. In order to prevent such illegal and bypassing methods, as well as to respond to the objective of the Law, we propose to increase the threshold in this case from 7 to 20 percent in practice. We believe that it is more adequate and will provide a more qualified composition of the municipal councils. The fact is that in the legal committees of some municipal councils, such as the Municipal Council in Burgas, of 10 people only one is a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u151	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, not supported by the Commission, for a change in art. 454a. They voted 106 MPs: 23, against 33, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 8 to be rejected because of its systematic role in § 4. Vote 110 MPs: 96 against 13, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u152	..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 458, para. 5 words................................................................................. 454, para. The The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 9 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u153	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal § 9 by text of the importer to be rejected. Vote 107 MPs: 95 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u154	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: §... Additional provisions of Paragraph 1 shall make the following amendments: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 (a) (b) to (c) shall be replaced by the words (d) to (e) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to be replaced by the words (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f). 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 (a) (b) shall be replaced by the words (c), (d), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 (a) (b) shall be replaced by the words (b) by the words (c) by the permanent address (s) or by the current address (s) and (c) shall be replaced by the words (c) by the words (d) by the permanent address (s) or by the current address (s) shall be replaced by the words (c) by the words (d) or by the words (d) shall be replaced by the 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 (a) (b) shall be replaced by the words (c), (d), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (g), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u155	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is about the definitions of the concept of living. In this regard, our proposals for the limitation of the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens are made to have the right to vote at all. Until now, texts have been discussed, which dealt with some thresholds for preferences, which we expected to hear from the debate, but apparently delayed and such a debate has not taken place. Since here, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we will still need to recall certain articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in art. 26, para. 1 is said: The citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, wherever they are, have all the rights and obligations under the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 it is settled, ladies and gentlemen, that the elections, national and local referendums are produced on the basis of a common, equal and direct selective right by secret ballot. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 It is said who have the right to vote and who do not have the right to vote, namely: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, ladies and gentlemen, it is said that the Constitution is a supreme law and that other laws cannot contradict it. It is from this point of view that we have made the relevant proposals in the definitions, which are in § 1, which restrict the rights for Bulgarian citizens not to be able to vote at all, to be replaced by other texts that the Election Code should be in accordance with the Bulgarian Constitution and all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of where they are, to have the opportunity to exercise their constitutional rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u157	Thank you. Is there any line to Mr. Karadaye's statement? I can't see. Any other comments on the proposals for a new paragraph discussed? No requests. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph with a text proposed by the importers. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 104 MPs: 18, against 51, abstention 35. The proposal to create a new paragraph has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u158	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: A new §... is being created: 1. §... Paragraph 11a shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions with the following content: For the elections for Members of the European Parliament in 2019, the Central Election Commission shall introduce a phased engine vote in sections designated by it, but not less than half of the total number of sections. (2) For all subsequent elections, the Central Election Commission shall introduce only machine voting in all sections, except for mobile sections, sections outside the country, medical institutions, old people's homes and other specialised institutions for the provision of social services and water-based sections. For all elections after the elections for Members of the European Parliament in May 2019, the vote cannot be combined and only machine-made. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u159	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph with a text proposed by the importers. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 105 MPs: 19 against 57 abstention 29. The proposal to create a new paragraph has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u160	Paragraph 10 s of the importer's text. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 10, which becomes § 5: .................................................................................. In Annex 1 to art. 248 t. 5.3 is amended as follows: supposed to The preference (preffers) for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than 7 per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u161	Are there any statements on this text? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 10, which becomes § 5. 100 MPs voted: 84, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u162	Paragraph 11? text of the importer. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 11, which becomes § 6: ........................................................... In Annex 3 to art. 355 t. 5.3 is amended as follows: supposed to The preference (preffers) for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than 5 per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u163	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for a text of § 11, which becomes § 6. They voted 101 MPs: 86 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u164	Paragraph 12 "text of the importer'. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev: "C § 12 in Annex 5 to art. 453, para. 1, ct. 6.2 of Section II, the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 7: .................................................... In Annex 5 to art. 453, para. 1 t. 5.2 is amended as follows: supposed to The preference (preffers) for a candidate on the candidate list shall be valid if the number of votes he has received is not less than 7 per cent of the votes cast for the candidate list.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u165	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 21, Against 2, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 12, which becomes § 7 of the Commission Report. Vote 104 MPs: 83 against 16, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u166	The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Final provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u167	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Concluding provision'. Vote 95 MPs: 84 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u168	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u169	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The proposal has been adopted, and with this in the second vote the draft amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs adopted on the first vote on 15 March 2019. I'm having second thoughts as to whether or not we should continue our work, or if that happens after the break. [[Heckling]] Dear MPs during the holiday in the Northern foyer will be opened exhibition "Language sacred to my ancestors: Croatian-Bulgarian parallels" which reveals the deep roots of the friendly relations between Bulgarians and Croats over the centuries. Our guests from the Croatian Parliament will attend the opening. All MPs are invited to attend the opening. The sitting will continue at 12.00 with the next item of the weekly programme. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u170	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's start with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE, No 954-01-12. It was introduced by Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019 and was adopted at the first vote on 19 March 2019. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u171	Thank you, Madam President. The Law on the Judiciary was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u172	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. Vote 62 MPs: 62 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u173	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 4 a new sentence is created second: "When the necessary majority is missing to adopt a decision, there is a decision to reject which is subject to appeal under art. 36. The previous sentence is the second sentence being the third sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u175	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the 1. In para. 2 At the end of the month following its entry into court, the words shall be deleted together with the administrative file. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The decision of the three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court shall not be subject to a cassation appeal, with the exception of cases subject to the acts referred to in art. 30, para. 2, p. 17 and Chapter 16a proceedings, Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u176	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 2. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u177	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u178	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 3. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u179	Paragraph 4 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u180	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u181	Paragraph 5 "Instruction text'. A proposal from the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov is amended as follows: "1." Alinea 1: On expiry of the term of office or upon early termination of the term of office on the grounds of art. 48, para. 1, t. 1 the Chief Inspector and the inspectors who applied to the College of the Supreme Judicial Council within 14 days of the date of expiry or early termination of the term of office may be reinstated to one degree higher than the one occupied before the election. 2. A new para is being created. 2: (2) In cases where the request for reimbursement of a post under para. 1 shall not be respected, the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be given a ruling within the term of para. 1 by which the Chief Inspector and the inspectors shall be reinstated to the post of Judge, Prosecutor or Investigator held before the election or to an equal position in the judicial authorities. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote, first, the proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov, not supported by the Commission. [[The National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor of speech.]] Would you like a statement, Mr. Kirilov? Please cancel the vote. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u183	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please excuse me for not being able to request the floor on this proposal in time. Let me try to argue it and to put it to your attention it was the most discussed in the debate in the Legal Commission, which also participated representatives of the Union of Judges in Bulgaria and representatives of the Supreme Court of Cassation. They overlap with our position by calling this proposal a Career Bonus. We, as importers with Mr Hamid, believe that this is not a career bonus, but a fair solution, a fair outcome for magistrates who have separated from the exercise of their work, have received confidence in a public procedure and have been appointed to perform the duties of judicial inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Judicial System. During the time they practiced this work, they lost the opportunity to develop in their professional hierarchy. It is therefore not fair for this time to remain unaccounted for in view of their career development. That is why we believe that this decision is fair. In addition, I would like to point out cases where inspectors could be placed, if not in a position to comply with their control powers, acting as inspectors, because, for example, the inspector was a district judge or a prosecutor in the District Prosecutor's Office, but carried out checks at the upper units of the judiciary, for example, at an appeal or at a supreme court, or at the Prosecutor's Office's Office of Appeal or at the Cassation Prosecutor's Office. He realizes, however, that when he returns, he will be in a sub-ordination relationship with the one he has checked, that is, in this way he will be compromised and cannot be impartial. It's true that this is the third time we've had this debate. Once again, the Commission is thinking on this issue and in the vote yesterday we decided the following: we will support the lower intensive decision, i.e. there is an opportunity to restore the post held before the election, to an equal position in the judiciary bodies. However, this does not mean that we, as importers, do not insist on our proposal to be able to use the words.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is a fair compensation for the time during which this magistrate carried out a good control work in favour of the justice system. That is why I appeal to you to support our proposal with Mr. Hamid...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u184	The proposal was submitted with Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u185	I'm sorry. [[Heckling]] We were having the debate with Mr. Hamid and please excuse Mr. Dimitrov, but we have other proposals with Mr. Hamid. I appeal to you to support this proposal of ours, and not the text of the speaker of our proposal with my colleague Emil Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u186	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? There are no lines to Mr. Kirilov's statement. Are there any other statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov, not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5 supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 6, against 2, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u187	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 8 is finally added for which a cassation appeal is envisaged.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u188	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 6. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u189	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 2 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by the rules adopted by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u190	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 7. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u191	Proposed by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), In the cases referred to in para. 1 only one member of a district court may be a junior judge.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u192	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 8 with a text which has been read. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u193	Paragraph 8 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 2 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by the rules adopted by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u194	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 8, which becomes § 9. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u195	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93, para. 2 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by the rules adopted by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u196	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for § 9, which shall become § 10. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u197	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 2 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by the rules adopted by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u198	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for § 10, which becomes § 11. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u199	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, para. 5 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by the rules adopted by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u200	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 11, which becomes § 12. Vote 82 MPs: 81 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u201	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122, para. 5 the words "in relation to' shall be replaced by the rules adopted by it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u202	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 12, which becomes § 13. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u203	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u204	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 14. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u205	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173, para. 11 is added at the end: "Send it immediately to the President of the Republic. "
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u206	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 14, which becomes § 15. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u207	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 183, para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: The members of the competition committee shall include one habilitated scientist in the relevant matter, as well as four members with the status of acting judge, prosecutor or investigator designated as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u208	Are there any statements on the composition of the committee? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 15, which becomes § 16. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u209	Paragraph 16 "Introduction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189, para. 5, in the text before t. 1 sentence 2 is amended as follows: "The members of the competition committee shall include one habilitated scholar of legal science in the relevant matter with an academic position of associate professor or professor, as well as four members with the status of acting judge, prosecutor or investigator designated as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u210	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 16, which becomes § 17. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u211	Paragraph 17 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: In the event of an objection, the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall hear the applicant of the objection, an approved magistrate, which shall be notified at least 7 days before the date of the meeting. (3) The relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council shall give a written opinion on the opposition and, where appropriate, collect additional information. (4) The relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, after assessing all the circumstances, shall accept the proposed comprehensive assessment of the attestation or return the case file to the Commission for attestations and contests for the preparation of a new comprehensive assessment, or shall determine a new comprehensive assessment of the magistrate. 2. The creation of para. 5. The decision of the College concerned accepting the proposed comprehensive assessment of the attestation or determining a new complex assessment shall be subject to appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court. The court's decision is final.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u212	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 17, which becomes § 18. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u213	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 314 para. 6 is
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u214	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 18, which becomes § 19. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u215	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 320, para. 3, p. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (b) (i) (ii) (ii) of the first subparagraph, the following sentence shall be added: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of 2. The letter "d" shall be revoked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u216	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 19, which becomes § 20. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u217	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 349, para. 3 words for promotions and promotions shall be replaced by the words for promotions and downgrades.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u218	Are there any speeches? I won't. Here you are, you have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u219	Thank you, Madam President. I have a proposal for an editorial amendment to fall into the new paragraph, so proposed by the Commission and the words to be read for promotion. I mean, in art. 349, para. 3 the words for promotion are replaced by the words for raising and lowering without the Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u220	The correction really is editorial. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 20, which becomes § 21 with the editorial amendment.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u221	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the entry of the importer for the name of the division, and the word "Concluding' is replaced by "Transitional'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u222	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission's proposal, which supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and the replacement of the word "Concluding" with "Transitional." They voted 73 MPs: for 73 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u223	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u224	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 22. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u225	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u226	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the last text of the Bill, namely the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 23. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The proposal has been passed, with which the entire bill has been passed. We continue our work on the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE RIGHTS AND HIS Related RIGHTS, No 902-01-9, Plenipotentiaries OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF 26 FEVRUARY 2019 We begin with the Committee on Legal Affairs Report. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u227	Dear colleagues! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. At its meeting held on 20 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. Mr. Mehti Melikov, Director-General, and Mrs. Katerina Pashova, State Expert; from the Association for the Protection of the Legal Distribution of Programs.., Mr. Velizar Sokolov, Mrs. Asparuh Tomov; from the Association of composers, authors of literary works related to music and music publishers for collective management of rights. The bill was presented by Mr. Melikov, who pointed out that it aims to introduce technological solutions for remote monitoring of content delivered by platform operators to the homes of their subscribers, specifying that the distribution of television programs in the packages of cable, satellite and IPTV operators is one of the main directions of control of compliance with the Copyright and Related Rights Act. He added that the adoption of these measures would counteract the illegal use of television content, which affects the formation of end-user prices and hinders the functioning of markets in conditions of fair competition. The draft law creates a legal opportunity for officials of the Ministry of Culture, who exercise control over copyright and related rights, to use automated means of control to identify the infringements remotely. Mr. Melikov noted that the bill provides for the clarification of the rules for service of legal persons to facilitate the procedure for service of the acts establishing administrative violations and criminal decrees. The proposed provisions offer optimization of the arrangements for the negotiation of the rates of collective management organisations, in detail governing the relations between the carriers and users, ensuring fair remuneration and setting out the procedure for drawing up and updating the list of mediators to the Minister of Culture. Mr. Melikov added that the adoption of the proposed changes will create a legal opportunity to exercise more effective control over the activities of collective management organisations and independent management companies, as well as to improve the procedure for the registration of independent management companies. The Law also proposes amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications regarding both the service of acts and penal decrees and the scope of the sources that the Communications Regulation Commission may use when preparing its annual report on its activities. According to the bill were received opinions from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria. Mrs. Kuseva and Mr. Sokolov pointed out that they supported the bill, paying attention to the need to refine terminology and synchronize the order of service between the Copyright Act and its related rights and the Law on Electronic Communications. Mr. Zhelyazkov and Mrs. Marinova noted that the bill aims to increase accountability in the distribution of television programs and said that they support all measures that will lead to a brightening of the media market and a level playing field in the negotiations of tariffs. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov and Christian Mitev. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Lazarov expressed their principle support to the Bill, adding that the provisions governing administrative criminal proceedings, as well as the terms and definitions used, should be refined and uniform. Members of the National Assembly stated their readiness to participate in a working group on the bill. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, no objection, and no abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u228	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. The report of the Committee on Culture and Media follows. Mrs. Sawateva, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u229	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, please, on the basis of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to vote for admission in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u230	Thank you. Let's hope we can let the Deputy Minister in. Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 67 MPs: 65, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister of Culture to the Chamber. We continue with the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, Mrs. Milkova, introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u231	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media held on 21 March 2019 a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act was reviewed, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. In the meeting took part: from the Ministry of Culture Mehti Melikov, Director of the Department of Authority and Related Rights................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Mehti Melikov. The texts for amendments to the legislative framework have been initiated by the Intellectual Property Protection Council, which is an advisory body to the Minister of Culture and co-ordination and cooperation between state institutions, local self-government bodies and non-governmental organisations working in the field of intellectual property protection in the conduct of state policy in the field of intellectual property protection. The main objective of the proposed amendments and additions is to create an opportunity to use modern technological solutions for carrying out remote monitoring of television programmes distributed by cable, satellite and other platform operators, and to establish an easy procedure for the service of acts establishing administrative violations and criminal decrees under the Copyright and Related Rights Act. It is also proposed to clarify provisions concerning collective management of copyrights or related rights, namely: the selection and activity procedure of committees for the promotion of remuneration collected by collective management organisations; the establishment of the list of mediators led by the Minister of Culture; the control powers of the Ministry of Culture in relation to collective management of rights; texts governing the organisation and implementation of administrative criminal activity. With the transitional and final provisions of the Bill are proposed changes in art. Art. 38, Art. 337 of the Law on Electronic Communications. These changes are achieved in the process of inter-agency coordination of the bill by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which are discussed and agreed in the Council for Intellectual Property Protection. With the amendments to art. 337 of the Law on Electronic Communications provides for relief of procedure for service of acts and penal decrees. With the amendments and additions to art. 38 of the Law on Electronic Communications expands the sources that the Communications Regulation Commission has the opportunity to use in the preparation of its annual report in the broadcasting part of radio and television programmes. In a written statement from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria is supported by the Bill, which was confirmed by its representative at the meeting. With regard to the proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications in their opinion "A1 Bulgaria" EAD express support for the amendment in order to improve the legislative framework in the field of administrative criminal proceedings, while offering concrete proposals to refine the texts. During the discussion by the Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators expressed support in relation to the automated establishment of violations of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, as well as the texts concerning the Law on Electronic Communications, but also disagreement with the removal of the coordination of mediators from the special list of mediators to the Minister of Culture with collective management organisations and representative organisations of users. On behalf of the organizations TERAPro, the Bulgarian Association of Music Producers and PROFON Velizar Sokolov spoke in support of the bill. The support was also expressed by the Musician. Following a vote by the Parliamentary Representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, with 9 votes for a vote, the National Assembly proposed to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u232	Thank you, dear Mrs. Milkova. The next report belongs to the Committee on Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 March 2019, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act was discussed, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Andreana Atanasova, Member of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Neda Koycheva, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs, Mr. Mehti Melikov, Director of the Directorate of Authors' Law and Related Rights and the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Acting Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, representatives of enterprises providing electronic communications networks and/or services. The bill was presented by Mr. Mehti Melikov. In his exhibition he pointed out that the distribution of television programs in the packages of cable, satellite and IRTV operators is one of the main directions of control of compliance with the Copyright and Related Rights Act. According to importers, in recent years, there has been a persistent trend towards widespread unregulated use of television content affecting the formation of end-user prices and hampering the functioning of markets in conditions of fair competition. In this regard, one of the main objectives of the Draft Law is the creation of an opportunity to use modern technological solutions for carrying out remote monitoring of television programmes distributed by different platform operators. It is envisaged that officials should be granted the right to use automated means of control for devices and computer programs approved in the appropriate order to identify the infringements remotely. The introduction of such an opportunity along with the existing authorities will allow the control authority to detect the infringement from its workplace, which, in view of the extremely limited administrative capacity of the Ministry of Culture, the employees involved in control of compliance with the Copyright and Related Rights Act are six, and the lack of territorial units in the country would directly contribute to the more efficient organisation of the work, as well as to savings in time and resource from on-the-spot checks. Next, the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act provides for the establishment of an facilitated procedure for the service of acts establishing administrative violations and criminal decrees under this law of legal persons and sole traders. The need for this stems from the negative tendency observed in recent years for offenders to avoid administrative criminal liability by hiding and obstructing the service of documents issued in the course of proceedings. According to importers, the existing general order of service provided for in the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties, to which the Copyright and Related Rights Act refers, has been proven to be difficult and ineffective, especially when it comes to legal persons and sole traders. Mr. Melikov drew attention to the amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications proposed in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the bill. The proposal for introduction to art. 337 of the Law on Electronic Communications of a light procedure for the service of acts and penal decrees in practice repeats, in the sense, the texts provided for in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act and the arguments set out above are valid for it. Changes in art. 38 of the Law on Electronic Communications are motivated by extending the scope of the sources that the Communications Regulation Commission has the opportunity to use when preparing its annual report in the broadcasting part. With a view to countering the grey sector and building an objective picture of the broadcasting market of television and radio programmes, it is necessary for the Communications Regulation Commission to be able to use not only the number of subscribers declared voluntarily by operators, but also data available to it from other sources. The Commission received an opinion from "A1 Bulgaria" EAD, which supports in principle the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act and proposes the revision of some of the texts, which provide for amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications. The opinion states that the special order for the service of acts establishing administrative infringements and criminal decrees other than those provided for in the Law on administrative infringements and penalties should be carefully refined, well-motivated and sufficiently clear. In this regard, they also provide specific comments on the individual texts. As regards the proposal for the preparation of its annual report, the Communications Regulation Commission should be able to use not only the number of subscribers declared voluntarily by operators, but also data from other sources, it is indicated that it is necessary to specify what sources will be used to increase the effectiveness of control. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place in which Ms. Andreana Atanasova, Mr. Mehti Melikov, as well as representatives of the enterprises providing electronic communications networks and/or services took part. Those who spoke supported the bill, stressing the need to refine individual texts of it. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes, the National Assembly proposed to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, dear Mr. Kirchev. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u235	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to declare that, on this bill, I am in the hypothesis of art. 147 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, but the attitude I want to take is to specify some aspects of the changes in this text. I support the Bill and the objectives that are set by its adoption to reduce the illegal distribution of radio and television programmes and unfair practices in the industry. First of all, the amendments to this law aim at carrying out remote monitoring on television and radio programmes distributed by cable, satellite and other operators. A possibility of remote detection of infringements is sought to strengthen control and to enable detection of infringements from the workplace of the controlling authority with restrictions available from the administrative staff. Remote monitoring is an important step in this direction, but I am concerned here that the fact that it is not specified exactly how the link between the illegal actions of the programme and the person who should be responsible for how this relationship will be clarified in a firm way and in a possible legal dispute. It is not insignificant and the question of how many and what control devices will be purchased from, from where, who will pay them and what will be the rules for placing these devices. Who will collect and process the information from them and on whose behalf? I welcome every step in the direction of lightening the industry in telecommunications operators, but in this case I think that the problem, and hence its solution, are not exactly in monitoring. It is correct that in Bulgaria the prices for access to paid television for households are extremely low and should be increased, but the objective facts that imposed these price distortions are not explained. According to industry representatives, the prices of the service directly depend on the prices of copyrights, but they are different for different operators, they do not have an exact, specific and uniform price for the subscriber of the service, which is the same for all licensed operators. In this case, prices are set on a market basis, with large operators serving a large number of subscribers receiving much lower prices of television broadcasting rights and thus forming a lower price of the service. This service price is impossible for small and medium-sized cable operators. They are forced to shrink or to go bankrupt. Therefore, many operators propose debates on legal changes to oblige the creators of television programmes and collective management organisations to disclose separately the prices at which they sell the right to distribute each of their television programmes, which is the same for all, without discounts, packaging or other conditions; telecommunications operators to form an autonomous part of copyright in the price of the service paid by the end-user. If content providers are obliged to publicly declare equal licence prices without discounts, this will brighten the sector to a much greater extent and the results will be much more favourable both for the same business environment for all small and large operators, as well as an adequate increase in prices and hence copyright revenues. This is the direction of a solution to this so discussed topic and problems with it. Another aspect to be noted, and I see that it can remain unclear, is the order to serve penal decrees. I think the procedure needs to be refined between first and second readings. In principle, I express my opinion that the bill is necessary and I support the desire to help in the proper development and regulation of this sector. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u236	Are there any lines to Mr. Kirchev? The line, Mr. Tanev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u237	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirchev, the order to serve the penal decrees is a very controversial issue not only in this law, but also in many others we have considered. From what you have said, I was under the impression that you have any concerns if you could argue a little more, because I think this is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Are there any other lines? I don't see any other lines. Mr. Kirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u239	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tanev, in connection with your inquiry, I would like to clarify that in the Transitional and Final Provisions of this bill, which deal directly with the Law on Electronic Communications in art. 137, is proposed to be created by para. 4 to para. 8. To clarify what this is about, I will allow myself to read these three paragraphs: Where the violator is a trader or a legal person, the act establishing the administrative infringement shall be served on the legal representative or on an authorised person by him. Where not to be served, the instrument drawn up shall be sent by mail with a registered letter with a return receipt to the management address indicated in the relevant register in which the trader or legal person is entered. (5) The act sent by mail with a return receipt shall be deemed to have been served on the date on which the return receipt is signed by its legal representative or the legal person who is his proxy or employee designated to receive documents and messages. (6) If the act is not served in any of the ways listed in paragraphs 4 and 5, the notice of drawing up the act shall be placed on a notice board and on the website of the authority concerned. I would like to stress that it is not mentioned here that the procedure under paras must be followed. 4, 5 and then by para. 6, that is to say, first of all, to request that the representative be contacted by the person to whom the act is to be served, if this act is not given, by mail with a return receipt, and if the act is not received only then to be placed on the notice board and on the website of the authority concerned. Art. 6, as recorded, it appears that it can be placed immediately on the notice board and on the website of the relevant authority. I think this is not specified in the Bill and must be corrected between first and second readings. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirchev, you have responded very competently to the biting Stara Zagora line of the esteemed Mr. Tanev. I'm looking for Mr. Budinov! Here you are, dear Mr. Budinov, sitting in an unusual place, everyone would like to be there!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This bill was adopted by a full majority in the Committee on Culture. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we, GERB, without reservation, support the authors, artists and artists. For us, as you know, education is a priority and we realize that culture is an inevitable, important and very constructive part of education. In fact, if I may say so, culture is the cherry on the cake of education. That is why I am using the case on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB to celebrate today's celebration, namely the 27th of March. [[Applause.]] Happy Thanksgiving to all who work in the theater, and to all who love the theatre! Thank you for your attention. [[Extreme applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, dear Mr. Simeonov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, I want to declare a total conflict of interest from 1992 to today. [[Applause.]] This does not prevent me from expressing my position as the MP. In principle, we will support this bill at first reading, but we have very serious comments on the texts. There is a huge risk that this bill will turn the Communications Regulation Commission and the Ministry of Culture into repressive bodies against all those who in any way have broken their contracts or have not concluded contracts with the major televisions, with the large carriers of rights. I'm telling you one-on-one so you can all understand me! There are some texts at stake, which colleague Kirchev very rightly addressed. I'll mention them too. This is art. 98.................................................................................. 2 the manner in which infringements are detected shall be specified. It's not refined, it's listed. Incompetent! It's not precise! In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 The right of officials to seize durable material media containing objects protected by the law relating to the infringement shall be conferred on the officials. From the current text, the word "proofs" disappears. Here is introduced some new way to prove the infringement, not through evidence, but through some secret material media, but what they are, what they are, how they are seized and described, is not clear. The next item, however, is an even more dangerous one, officials have the right to use automated means of control to detect infringements under art. 97 without requiring the consent of third parties to do so. These are the so-called ones, Mr. Kirchev, the remote ones, there are nowhere to say that they are remote, but this in the Commission debates is mentioned and stated that it is about some remote devices, such as those we press here with fingers for registration and so on, they will register programs remotely. What are they, what are they, what software, how much will they be manipulated, how accurate they will be? No one can tell you. It is simply given the opportunity to place some apparatuses here under this law, and it is not even clear where to place them and how they will be added and as a result of the readings they give for the programs that are broadcast, respectively to close acts until the second coming, to close TV stations and so on. I am definitely against this! Not to mention the total insanity of it. 5, where it says that these automated means, notice, to control and detect violations are being used, notice now carefully, without requiring the consent of third parties! Now tell me, how will this work? So, they take the apparatus, they don't want the consent of the respective subscriber, the telecommunications operator, they smash the window or the door with a break-in, they put it on the cable of the TV, they come out and it starts to work. Mr. Kirilov, do you like this kind of law?! What does it mean without asking for the consent of third parties? Let's go, let's go, let's go, We are going to the Transitional and Final Regulations to clarify what an automatic means of control is. Well, what's up? So this automated control device was something approved by the Minister's order! Period! The Minister of Supertechnical Competent, with regard to the apparatus itself, ensures that by putting it on, it will not become a short circuit and burn the entire house, it ensures that the software is flawless! The Minister of Culture is a kind of superman, he knows all about it is enough to say: I approve it! And the camera goes on! Here too, excuse me, it's a huge misunderstanding. Also, I apologize, Mr. Kirchev, for repeating your words, but as partners in conflict of interest, there is no way I can pass § 14 of the Transitional and Final Regulations.......................................................................... 38, para. In addition to data provided by enterprises in the preparation of the report under para. 1, The Commission is using other sources of information available to it. What are these other available sources of information? Who, from where, are they reliable, are they official, are they public? Groans! There's no such thing! So he can use some others, planted in some folder or emailed, some research of someone who is interested in collecting more money, such as the big TV stations that are running Bulgaria at the moment, and this particular one will give some other data, on which the CRC will conclude, for example, for number of subscribers, for number of programs and so on and so forth. The law is subject to a very serious castration, I'd say, to become a working cattle. Many work cattle, many different kinds of domestic animals castrate them so to do the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. The law is subject to further work. - What's the line? I can't see. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u245	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Valeri Simeonov raised a number of questions that I would not be able to answer within two minutes. For this reason, thank you for determining that you are giving me the floor of speech. If he decides, he could replicate, of course. I would like very briefly to recall the aim and genesis of this bill, and I believe that Mr. Simeonov was also involved in some of the debates on this issue when he was Deputy Prime Minister. Even in previous amendments proposed by the Ministry of Culture in relation to copyright and related rights regarding broadcasting of radio and television programmes, this issue was discussed. The problem in relations between all participants in the chain: the production of a radio television program, i.e. producers, authors, then................................. of this broadcasting programme and such organisations have the problem of not being able to identify the exact number of users of a relevant radio and television programme. It is therefore argued in this sector that there is a very gray economy, that many programme distributors do not announce the actual number of subscribers. Thus comes the term, the notion of "lander reporting', that is, those organisations that distribute, report to CRC the number of users, which is lower than the actual number of their subscribers, from which they collect the relevant fee. This fee, which is collected by users of such programmes, should cover all the costs of the operator, the supplier of the signal accordingly, but must also ensure the payment of the respective copyrights and related rights. For this reason, if one, I say a cable operator, but this is also true for operators providing the service by other technical means - satellites and so on, it is quite possible to declare a number of example of thousands of users... Excuse me, they're distributing programs in cash, like 100 programs in their package. Yes, there may be packages that their supplier has determined in advance, but sometimes even if they want to trace and validly pay all producers, producers of these programs, the cost of copyrights and related rights, sometimes they can't. What's the outcome in this case? The outcome in this case is to pay a collective management organisation. It is obvious that in this sector, this industry is being argued, it is obvious that the number of consumers is being argued. The collective management organisations say, "Your users are more in number, you distribute to more end users and the operator says: "On the contrary, I distribute exactly to a thousand. Prove they're five or ten thousand, for example. For this reason you also see the texts that Mr. Simeonov presented to your attention the use of other data in other sources. The part in which he says "importers" clearly refers to the collection of physical evidence. What could this physical evidence be? These are technical devices, which one way or another record s have memories, have a memory to distribute. I separate the cases in which these norms concern other uses and distributions, these are the so-called Internet content delivery platforms. There is an even wider technical opportunity for data collection and evidence. This task stands for more than two years before both CRC and the Ministry of Culture. Two years ago, the Ministry of Culture organized, specifically put this issue to the discussion of all interested. Meanwhile, a public conference was held in the National Palace of Culture, which was attended by both me and Mr. Simeonov, then as Deputy Prime Minister, and Mr. Simeonov opened this conference. As a matter of fact, in this segment, which has a very serious technical specificity, it is indeed possible to seek more modern legal solutions on the organisation of proof. If the relevant advisory organisations are organised and, together with the Ministry of Culture, action is taken, it is possible to delegate to an organisation selected by competition, by competitive means, the possibility of collecting and processing data with regard to the use of copyrights and materials. This, however, is a future. At this moment, the Ministry of Culture and the Council of Ministers give us the first step, the first option to move towards more modern ways to solve this case. In order not to go into detailed explanations, because there are really legal questions here that the Legal Committee as a leader will have to decide... for this reason I am telling all of you and my colleague Kirchev and my colleague Simeonov and those of you who are interested or are from the other committees involved in this bill to order a working group. The Legal Commission will make a working group with all interested in the texts in question so as to reach a mutually acceptable but working solution. We think that's possible. We believe that there is a consensus here in principle, and as Valeri Simeonov said: "We all support this in principle. " I am sure that fellow Members who have expressed conflict of interest, that is, they have referred to the norm of the Rules, are as perfect as possible in their work. However, they are competing with other operators that are misleading, i.e. they do not pay any copyright, but they are undercutting both the prices and the quality of this service, which also leads to unacceptable practices, also leads to market distortion. So at last, after many talks of all interested thinkative organizations, the undeniable thing in this case is that there is the will to come to a decision. If it is technically the most precise, most working yes, we will have no option in using radio and television programs, but we will have a fair distribution of income. In this regard, yesterday a colleague joked with Bear Pooh, who said: "We have seven cups of honey for distribution, I ate my seven. " So basically it will not come to an unfair result, in which someone on this complex chain of implementation of the copyright has taken the lion's pie and another one can fail the limits of the possible, only and only exist on the market, only and not go bankrupt, to provide the service with a lower quality, under worse conditions and under very strong competitive pressure. Among other things, let us also consider that the money that we pay as subscribers to radio and television organizers must, for the most part, reach the author so that they can motivate him, reach the producer, so that the producer can make a more quality, more attractive transmission, that is, a better product. The fact that we watch on television programs and shows that we often define as horrible, uniform is not only due to editorial policy, but I do not exclude the role of editorial policy, of false news and manipulations, but it is also due to the lack of adequate financial, property stimulus, so that what you have done, if it is good, working, attractive, gets some price. We have discussed and talked about these issues in other debates, but when the top Bulgarian composer for all his hits he has made receives 70 BGN annually, this is not an incentive. Yes, he would prefer to enter into a contract with one, how can I say, a company that would exploit at a slightly higher price, but much more intensively exploit its work, talent and creativity. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A line? Here you are, dear Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u247	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! Mr. Kirilov, thank you for your general theoretical speech. In principle, there is no denying that over 90% of what you say is true. True, but it's like the old saying that the road to hell is covered with good intentions. If we go into the details and start backwards, the poor Bulgarian composer does not take money from the UNFON and from the Musician (Musicator) simply because the majority, more than ten times more, redirects outside. Besides, they have very high means of self-reservation, I don't know if you know? And this self-reservation has actually already materialized in whole streets with cooperatives in Boyana. The same ones that passed and circled in 1993 and 1994 for some 20 BGN. Mercy so that they may exist. And I gave them a contract, of course. Backward again, we continue to get to Pooh Bear. Do you know who Pooh Bear is? Teddy Pooh is the TERA Pro, where are the three largest operators of telecommunications services, I will not say who they are, and the largest television stations that would gladly eat not seven jars of honey, but the seventy remaining medium and small telecommunication operators. What is this country in the European Union looking to liquidate the small ones? Doesn't that sound familiar to you, like the case of the scavengers, like the case of milk, like the case of fuel? This is a process we should not allow as MPs. We must keep the business of those who pay their taxes to those who work in the light. Because this law, unfortunately, implements all administrative control through remote means, which, not to stop, not to repeat, and so on, on those who exercise light business. And those who aren't registered, those who don't know receipts, where are they? The disloyal competition, the grey sector, which is really huge in this sector, we know them, the biggest are in Ruse, Yambol, Burgas, in Sofia there are fewer, all of the industry know them, and the colleague knows them. Nothing is being done to them, this law does nothing to them. The big ones say: "Here are these now we will press them, we will control them, we will collect ten skins for them because they are in our hands and because the price is unilaterally determined. Do you think the price for broadcasting the package, for example, on Nova TV or on BTV, is a matter of negotiation?! Not at all! They tell you, that's the price, if you want to take it, if you want to don't broadcast and shut down the firm. Such is this market, so we must be careful not to liquidate those who, again, pay taxes that are correct. This law actually applies an extreme repression right on them and is at risk of being liquidated with these vague concepts. But let me not talk to you as a colleague. You are a lawyer. My request is this: instead of promising here to the entire National Assembly more modern ways of solving the case, find the exact legal wording. We will cooperate with you to prevent Pooh Bear from eating all the honey on Earth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line please, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! The debate somehow went not in the purpose of this amendment of the Law, but in the event of a violation, how legitimately to be established, to collect the sanctions, as it is also stated in the reasoning that not a small part of the legal and natural persons cannot be found at the address. A form is intended to be called, to be uploaded to the website of the respective ministry and so on. Yes, for good reason the questions were put by legal means. I'm making a line, you mentioned there's gonna be a task force. Maybe the term needs to be liquefied, like, say, the speed cameras, the noise meters. In order to measure noise, it also needs to be licensed, to have some order, not to turn out that someone is using one tool, one apparatus, another device. Yes, indeed, when it comes time for a working group, specialists should come to the technical part. Our legal part, I think, is licensing in the appropriate order, and to be clear: these measurers with only this type licensed by the institution concerned to get things on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Is there a third line? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, I will disagree with some of the ones that you have expressed, firstly, with regard to the term.................... and in fact with this term we are replacing evidence that is more general. Both in the Commission and here I declare that it is more appropriate for me to add durable material media to the evidence, but not to exclude all other forms of evidence, outside the durable material medium, which is material evidence. There's no written evidence here. The vocal evidence would be less used, but the rest of the evidence, why narrow down the toolbox? Aren't we going to try to expand the tools of the Ministry of Culture to combat violations? Next, my colleague Lazarov said what I was going to suggest that these automated means of control, which are being referred to, should pass the relevant procedure or licensing, or at the approval of the relevant authority, whether this would be the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, or would be another body, but should be licensed in some way and approved as technical specifications. Finally, in relation to para. 3 of art. 38 For other available sources of information, I believe that these can only be sources that are legally established. It cannot be given in general, not specifically.. Someone decides, publishes some report and, on the basis of it, takes appropriate action and makes appropriate analyses. Moreover, what is said about under reporting, after all, right, if we have not entirely, but in the dark, I say, operator, on the basis of the receipts issued you can safely detect the number of its subscribers and compare them with what is submitted to the Communications Regulation Commission. Apart from that, I must tell you that the manager of the company concerned is also responsible for criminal liability for incorrect data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u252	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My fellow Members, who have done the lines, I will not have three minutes to answer all the questions you have asked, but I will try as quickly as possible and as meaningfully as possible to take an opinion. I will start with Mr. Simeonov's arguments, many of which I support in the interest of the truth, many of which we have discussed in the previous amendment. Twice we actually watched the previous amendments, and if you remember, Mr. Simeonov, then I was still a villain, again videos were being distributed, with which popular actors explained how parliament would steal their last bite of copyright work. What, though, was the result? That is to say, I have criticised enough, I have suspected enough of collective management organisations, I have made demands publicly in all debates, and I think that dialogue with them has greatly improved lately. What in this aspect have we achieved? All MPs have received this report from the Musician and it seems to me that this is the first time we have received it. This is the result of the debates we have had in a working group and in a Legal Commission. This report has presented to its members the collective management organisation to explain its individual members the truest, most concentrated and most informative parameters in relation to revenue and distribution. I'm not saying the management costs are down. Absolutely not! I'm just saying I can't tell. But at least now we have data if we reverse the tape to do an analysis of what the actual situation was. Overall, I think this approach is positive for the whole sector. Yeah, there's a lot of distrust. It is obvious that there are some stronger ones who use their actual situation, and sometimes they use their technical position against others. With regard to Mr. Lazarov's reply, I would say yes, he said "licensed," then mentioned and "sertified," undoubtedly we are talking about such means and means of technical control, which are sufficiently convincing, sufficiently categorically certified and verified. With regard to the arguments of colleague Mitev, I have in much peace because we will not discuss these issues for the first time in a working group. He's always been thorough and constructive, and I think we'll find the most adequate expression possible right now. I apologize for extending the time. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-27.u254	I listened to you with interest, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, before closing the meeting, one message: Today, on 27 March 2019 was received and sent to the MPs General draft bills amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy adopted on the first vote on 27 March 2019. The project was drawn up by the Budget and Finance Committee on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9.00 on 28 March 2019 under the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
