ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly. Draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 April 2019. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2019. I propose that these should be included as the first and second points for today's plenary sitting, and the other points in the agenda of the sitting shall be renumbered accordingly. Please, voting mode. Vote 137 MPs: 135, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECT OF THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on 4 April 2019. Please, Mr. Donchev, introduce the MPs to the proposal of the Council of Ministers. The word is Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u2	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow ministers! The Minister of Justice Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, on behalf of the Prime Minister, I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva and for the election of Mr. Danail Kirilov as Minister of Justice. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov is a Master of Law from Sofia University. From 1997 to 2001, he was a practicing lawyer, as well as during the 2003 periods, 2009 and after 2013. From mid-2001 to 2003 he was Head of Political Office of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Kostadin Paskalev. In 2007 he was elected municipal councillor and headed the Business Commission at the Sofia Municipal Council, as well as the Temporary Commission for the Restructuring of Municipal Companies. Between August 2009 and May 2013 Mr. Kirilov is the district manager of Sofia district. Mr. Kirilov is a MP in the Forty-second, Forty-third and Forty-fourth National Assembly. From March 2017 to April 2019 he was Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and a member of the Committee on Energy. He speaks English and Russian. On the basis of the above and the fact that in the years Mr. Kirilov has established himself as an undisputed expert in law, he has gained extensive experience, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a draft decision on the election of Mr. Danail Kirilov as Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any desire. I'm closing the debate. I'll read it to you. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 4 May 2017; Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 10 November 2017; Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 September 2018; Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 21 November 2018; and Decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 20 December 2018. HAS DECIDED He released Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska as Minister of Justice and elected Danail Dimitrov Kirilov as Minister of Justice. Please, voting mode. 135 MPs voted: 120 against 15, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please take an oath. Repeat after me, Mr. Kirilov. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u4	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u5	Congratulations, Mr. Kirilov! Good luck. I thank my colleagues from the Council of Ministers who today respected Mr. Kirilov's vote. I wish you a successful job and a successful day! Colleagues, we move to the second item of today's agenda: The Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organization for ECONOMIC COOPERATION and Development. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, who will introduce us? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), No 902-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2019. At a regular meeting held on 4 April 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (CSR), No 902-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is a cause of high importance for the country, as the activities of this organization cover almost all aspects of socio-economic life. The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria has clearly declared its intentions for enhanced cooperation with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and Decision No 789 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 established a permanent Interdepartmental Coordination Mechanism on the candidacy of the Republic of Bulgaria for membership in the organization. The agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is approved by the Council of Ministers as the basis for negotiation with the Council of Ministers. 1 of the decision of the Council of Ministers under paragraph 1. 6 of Protocol No 6 of the Government meeting, held on 6 February 2019. 2 of the same decision, the Council of Ministers authorised the Minister of Finance to hold the negotiations and sign the agreement with the OECD under conditions of subsequent ratification. The Agreement was signed on 7 March 2019 in Sofia and 21 March 2019 in Paris. The agreement includes carrying out a budgetary review of Bulgaria, which will be carried out according to the approach and practices of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purpose of these reviews is to conduct a comprehensive overview of a country's budgetary process to assess national experience through the prism of international good practices, giving specific recommendations for improving the budgetary process. Reviews also contain opinions and recommendations of partner countries. In this sense, the budgetary reviews of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development are unique in terms of scope, presentation and broad expertise. Reviews shall be discussed and discussed at meetings of senior budget officials organised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and published in a specialised OECD Journal on Budgeting. For Bulgaria, such a review was conducted in 2008 and was published in the third volume of that publication. The new review will assess our country's multiannual efforts to introduce budget reforms and their results. This will give a positive signal of our commitment to implementing international standards and good practices in the process of budgeting and managing public finances. By sharing its experience, Bulgaria will have the opportunity to compare itself with the best achievements in the area of budget management and to obtain a realistic assessment of the current state of play against the principles set out in the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which would motivate reforms if necessary. Given the circumstances that the Agreement provides for financial obligations, the same on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to ratification by law of the National Assembly. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the proposed draft by concluding its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (CSR), No 902-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We're going to discuss the bill. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote on the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposal is adopted, and with this in the first vote and the bill under consideration. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u8	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so proposed ratification adopted in the first vote, let us also adopt it in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u9	Thank you. There are the reasons for putting your proposal to the vote at second reading in today's sitting. We are voting on Mr. Ivanov's proposal for a second reading of the newly adopted bill. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please, Mr. Ivanov, begin the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u10	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OMSR) A single member. He ratified the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DCI), signed on 7 March 2019 in Sofia and 21 March 2019 in Paris. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The law was passed by the 44th National Assembly on 5 April 2019 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Please, voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. We therefore adopt the Law for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Moving on to the next point of today's program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONSTRUCTION. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u12	Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the basis of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Bankruptcy Act adopted on 27 March 2019 by the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019 and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act No 954-01-9 submitted by the National Representatives Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Hristian Mitev on 26 February 2019. The Law on Bankruptcy (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u13	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the name of the Import Act. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u14	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2, p. 11 words.............................................................................. 60 and 60 ads are replaced by, art. Art. 60, Art. Art. 60a. 2. In para. 4 words.................................................................... 60, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u16	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new § 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1, t. 13 the words............................................................................. 60 a.m. is replaced by a.k.a. Art. 60a. 60b
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u17	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal to create a new § 2. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposal to create a new § 2 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u18	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new § 3. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1, t. 7 words.................................................................... 60 a.m. is replaced by a.k.a. Art.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u19	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission, and an amendment proposed by the Commission for a new § 3. They voted 98 MPs: 198, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal for a new § 3 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u20	Paragraph 1 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u21	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 1, which becomes § 4. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u22	Paragraph 2 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. The 7th sentence is first amended as follows: The claims under para. 3 and 5 and appeals shall not be collected in advance by the persons referred to in art. 62, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u23	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 2, which becomes § 5. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for a new § 5 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u24	According to § 3 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 the 1. In para. 3 the words "sydic', as well as the fund in the case of inaction of the seller, shall be replaced by the temporary trade union or trade union, as well as by the fund in the case of inaction of the temporary trade union or the seller. 2. In para. The fourth sentence is first amended as follows: The claims referred to in paragraph 4 shall be subject to the following conditions: 1, 2 and 3 and in appeal proceedings prior to the state fee shall not be collected by the persons referred to in art. 62, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u25	Statements? I don't see any requests from the gym. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 3, which becomes § 6. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u26	According to § 4 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the word "Volunteer" shall be added to the currency of insolvency. 2. In para. The first sentence is amended as follows: 1 and in appeal proceedings no prior state fee shall be collected by the persons referred to in art. 62, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u27	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the version proposed by the Commission for § 4, which becomes § 7. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u28	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u29	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 8. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u30	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 the following 1. In para. 2 in a sentence, first after the words..................................................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. 2. The creation of para. 3: In the cases referred to in para. 1 The procedural representation of the bank shall be carried out by the temporary trade union or the trade union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text by importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 6, which becomes § 9. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u32	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62a is created. 3: In cases where more formed by the persons referred to in art. 62, para. 1 cases the court shall appoint a special representative of the applicant's expenses, the remuneration of the special representative shall be determined in accordance with art. 37 of the Law on Legal Aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 7, which becomes § 10. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u34	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 78 is created. 10 and 11: The articles and the rights under para. 4 t. 4 shall be included in the cashing programme if the hostage creditor within three years of the approval of the list of accepted claims has not requested a continuation of execution under art. 21, para. 4. (11) In the sale of the items and rights under para. 4 t. Article 4 shall apply. 101.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u35	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the importer supported by the Commission and in the version proposed by the Commission for § 8, which becomes § 11. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u36	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u37	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u38	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 7. The authorisation under paragraph 1 shall be granted by the competent authority of the Member State in which the authorisation was granted. 6, p. 2 shall be issued where the items and rights included in the cashing programme are not sold after at least three times being offered on public sale under para. 6, p. 1. The sale by direct negotiation or through an intermediary shall be made at an initial selling price not less than 30 per cent of the valuation indicated in the description and the price shall be reduced accordingly to the realization of the item or right under the terms of the contract established by the trade union on the basis of methodical instructions from the fund, rules for the sale by direct negotiation published on the bank's website. Communication on the initiation of a sale procedure by direct negotiation or through an intermediary shall be published on the bank's website. 2. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8. 3. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. 1 "7' is replaced by "al'. 1.. 6...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u39	Are there any speeches? None We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 in the version reported. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u40	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u41	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote on the proposal of the importer for § 9, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 14. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u42	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. The Syndicate shall perform the part of the distribution account approved by the Fund and in the case of complaints received under para. 3 in the event that sufficient additional cash is collected at the bankruptcy table from which amounts are allocated to secure claims of appeals until the court has ruled on them with an entry into force of a judicial act. 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u43	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the amendment proposed by the Commission to create a new § 15. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The proposal to create a new § 15 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 16, and shall propose in paragraph 10. 2 concerning § 2a the word "the provisions" to be replaced by "the provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u45	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of an importer for § 10, which becomes § 16, with the proposal to replace the word "the provisions" with the word "the provisions." Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u46	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 17. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u47	Are there any speeches? No requests. We move on to the vote on: the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 17; the proposal for the name of the division They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u48	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm For pending proceedings for approval of the partial allocation account until the entry into force of this law, art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 19. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u50	According to §13 an importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In the Commercial Law (prom., SG No. ...) shall be created art. 722a: Specific rules on the order of claims Art. 722a. Where the debtor is an investment firm within the meaning of the Financial Instruments Markets Act, a financial institution, a mixed financial holding company or a mixed holding company within the meaning of the Credit Institutions Act, in the case of the distribution of the cashed assets, all claims with order after that under art. 722, para. 1, t. 7 shall be satisfied in accordance with Article 7. 94, para. 1, t. 8 - 15 of the Bankruptcy Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer and the version of § 13, which shall become § 20. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u52	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 6 A sentence is created second: For cigars and cigars, the selling price is the price written on the blender, at which tobacco products are sold retail to a final consumer, which includes the cost of producing and selling the producer (importer), the duty due, contributions, fees, excise duties and value added tax. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 5 are created t. 4 and 5. "4." production of lubricating oils; 5. the production of additives for motor fuels and/or for lubricating oils. (b) the creation of para. 6: The requirements of para. 4 shall not apply to: 1. authorised warehousekeepers carrying out activities with energy products falling within CN codes 2707 10 00, 2707 20 00, 2707 30 00, 2707 50 00, 2710 12 21, 2710 12 25, 2901 and 2902; 2. places for direct delivery of licensed warehousekeepers. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57d is created. 5? 7: The Office of Customs shall keep an electronic register of the registered recipients containing: 1. identification number of the registered consignee; 2. name, seat and address of management, unique identifier of the registered recipient; 3. address of the establishment where the goods are received and unloaded; 4. the types of excise goods that can be obtained at the site; 5. date of service of the certificate of registration of the registered consignee; 6. date of termination of the registration certificate of the registered consignee. (6) Any subsequent changes in the circumstances of para. 5. (7) The information under para. 5, t. 2 "6" is public. "2" is public. "2" is public. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58b is created. 3... The Office of Customs shall keep an electronic register of the temporarily registered recipients containing: 1. identification number of the temporarily registered consignee; 2. name, seat and address of management, unique identification code of the temporarily registered recipient; 3. address of the establishment where the goods are received and unloaded; 4. the types of excise goods that can be obtained at the site; 5. date of service of the certificate of registration of the temporarily registered consignee; 6. date of termination of the registration certificate of the temporarily registered consignee. (4) Any subsequent changes in the circumstances of para. 3. (5) The information under para. 3, p. 2 "6" is public. "2" is public. "2" is public. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The second sentence is created: On the banderola of cigars and cigars is also indicated the selling price. The previous sentence becomes third and in the end is added: the price of single units. (b) in para. 20 at the end is added the cigars and cigars and the selling price. (c) the creation of para. 25: The cigar and cigar Banderolls are declared at the last registered price. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2, p. 1 is finally added: either on the banderola for cigars and cigars.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u53	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal to create a new § 21 in the version proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u54	We only hear about cigars and cigars. When will there be something from the Transport Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u55	Next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u56	Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u57	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The authorised warehousekeepers may release for consumption excise goods
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u58	Are there any speeches? I won't. I am voting on the proposal to create § 22 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u59	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...), in art. The 80th para is created. 4. (4) For the purposes of para. 1, t. 3 when determining the 20-year term for real estate, respectively for the purposes of para. 1, t. 4 in determining the 5-year period for goods or services which are or would be fixed assets shall not be included in the calendar years for which the period shall cease to run on the basis of art. 79a, para. Art. 8 and art. 79b, para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 23 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u61	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 24. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 21. 1, 3, 4, 5 and 6 and § 22, which shall enter into force from 20 May 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the supported proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new § 24 in the version proposed in the Commission Report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted, and the second vote adopted the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Bankruptcy Act, a draft prepared by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 27 March 2019 by importers Council of Ministers of 22 February 2019, Danail Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev of 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u63	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a procedure. In the second vote of the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development with the Importer, the Council of Ministers was not put to the vote Final provision and paragraph alone. Please put to the vote the name and the text of paragraph alone, namely: "Concluding provision' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Indeed, this is my omission in announcing the text voted. I shall put to the second vote the name of the Final Provision and the text of paragraph alone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u65	You should have put the procedure to the vote first.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u66	He's right, Mr. Tsonev, I'm sorry. We are voting on the procedure proposed by Mrs. Stoyanova as the proposal was made. We have examined and just voted on another bill. First, we vote on the procedural proposal to vote on the missed texts. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The procedure has been accepted. Please vote on the very texts reported by Mrs. Stoyanova. They voted 80 MPs for 80, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Our meeting will continue at 11:00 with the next item of our daily program. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u67	Colleagues, we're starting work. Let's continue with: HEARING THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOOD AND GORE RUMANN. The hearing is on a proposal from MP Desislava Taneva. It proposes to hold a hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov on support for the agricultural sector and the general trend in the common agricultural policy during the new programming period. Here you are, dear Mrs. Taneva, to present the proposal for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Bulgarian agriculture is a major sector in the Bulgarian economy, gives a significant part of gross added value and is a major economic sector in rural areas. The development of Bulgarian agriculture also determines social life in rural settlements. An extremely important sector providing a livelihood for the population. Moreover, we should not be proud to note that in recent years the Bulgarian grain production has been in the top 10 producers and the Bulgarian country has ranked among the largest exporters and traders of cereals. Bulgarian agriculture in its history back has experienced many forms of governance. Until 1989, everyone knew the form of agricultural production developed through the TTZS and agri-industrial complexes. Following the democratic changes that took place in 1989, all the countries of the socialist bloc carried out relevant reforms in terms of economic distention, including the agricultural sector. Each Party has adopted its legal form for this reform, which has resulted in relevant results. What was done in our country? The land has been brought back to real borders, something I will not comment on, because this is not the subject of my proposed subject of hearing and invitation to the Minister of Agriculture today and here. Agriculture has taken over its development entirely on its own initiative by the owners of agricultural land, respectively users. The first moment of significant support and impetus for the development of agriculture in Bulgaria in the new democratic period, the last since its development, took place in 2007 and our country's accession to the European Union. Then Bulgarian agriculture, Bulgarian farmers for the first time receive significant financial support. In its first programming period direct payments, direct support for income gives a strong boost to agriculture in Bulgaria and the many undeveloped fields that everyone could see, traveling around Bulgaria, the land began to be widely processed. The Bulgarian grain production has entered its competitiveness stage with its European colleagues. Sensitive livestock farming, permanent crops, vegetables, traditional sectors in which Bulgaria had very good results before 1989 and was a net exporter. The years after 1989 and the liquidation of the TTCs turned it from a producer of many of these raw materials into a net importer. Here comes the second programming period. He's better than the current one, better than the previous one. Member States, including Bulgaria, have opportunities for more national solutions according to the regional specifics of their agriculture. Bulgaria begins, of course, under the regulations and legislation of the European Union to implement tied support schemes and to support traditional sectors for Bulgarian agriculture, such as livestock, permanent crops and vegetable production. The effect of all this is that in Bulgaria even these industries, which were underfunded in most part by product profile, started and marked significant growth. What stage are we at right now? The negotiations and the relevant procedures will ask the Minister to explain later in his statement. The reason why I invited him here today is to negotiate the rules for the new programming period after 2021. The topic that very much excites Bulgarian agriculture. Last year, the European Commission presented the Multiannual Financial Framework in terms of really other priorities of the European Union, such as migration, security and defence. For agriculture, the budget has been reduced. For Bulgaria, the priorities, which were really consensually defined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry together with the industry, were also protected in this process. For Bulgaria, it is extremely important how the ceiling of payments, the tied support, the national transitional assistance is to be determined. All details that would help the trend of traditional productions for our country continue to be positive. Dear Minister, the reason for my invitation to you is indeed the time we are in the future of European elections, but the procedures are running, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in the European Parliament voted on the relevant proposals in respect of the three regulations. Please inform the Members of the National Assembly and the citizens and farmers concerned what are currently the arrangements and trends for support in the new common agricultural policy to be applied after 2021. I would like to stress that this is really fundamental and key for Bulgarian agriculture, as the main financial support is obtained in practice under the European funds. Today is the day after the last meeting of the Management Board of the State Fund, and I would like to stress that the state is making the most of the funds, according to the national budget, to support its actions, especially those underfunded. Evidence of this is yesterday's meeting of the Board of Directors of the Fund of Education, where four sectors were supported. I hope that the answer will satisfy the interest of the interested parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Dear Minister, you have the floor to inform the Members of the National Assembly on matters which are the subject of the hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u70	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Taneva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I cannot disagree with everything Mrs Taneva has shared from the point of view of the sector................... and from the point of view that it is in front of a very important one, I would not say a crossroads, but it is at a very important point in determining its future, namely the debate on the new common agricultural policy. Allow me to introduce you very briefly to the current programming period "What is being done on it, what funds are financed in Bulgarian agriculture and in the food industry, of course. Direct payments in the current programming period are an instrument that creates a common basis for implementation by all countries in the European Union. At the same time, there are certain elements that allow national specificities to be taken into account by making national decisions. As regards direct payments schemes. It is basically the single area payment scheme. It has established itself as an efficient and clear implementation of a direct support scheme. It is applied as a basic scheme of direct payments in Bulgaria by 2020. It is this scheme that computes somewhere around 42 " 43% of the total budget for direct payments available to the country. At the moment, it's 800 million. EUR from 2016 to 2020 The other instrument is the reassignment payment. In an efficient and effective way, the funds shall be allocated to small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, the support shall be directed to the first 30 hectares of farms. For the purpose of maximum simplified conditions, a single rate shall be applied for all first hectares. The main element for direct payments to Bulgaria is the production-related income support. For the period 2015 - 2020 the budget for direct payments shall be allocated 13% for linked production for support in livestock, vegetable production and permanent crops, and 2% for protein crops. Since 2015, the amount of funding for tied support in the country has been significantly increased compared to the previous years of more than three, almost four times. In order to stimulate the entry of young people into the sector since 2015, a separate scheme has been introduced for young farmers starting farming. Thus farmers up to 40 years of age receiving direct payments per area have an addition above payment under the single area payment scheme. Since last year it was 25%, and after the amendments that the Regulation allowed, the additional addition to direct payment is now 50%. Of course, and the scheme for the implementation of small farmers, namely the amount of holdings from 5 decares up to 1250 euros. It aims to help increase the competitiveness of small farms and to ensure additionality of income for the smallest farms. For the current programming period 2014-2020, funds for direct payments amounting to 6 billion have been paid. The Commission therefore concludes With yesterday's nearly 102 million. lv. It's nearly 6 billion. 660 million. lv. Yesterday, as I mentioned, the redistributive payments were paid for the first 30 hectares of farmers. For the management period of the government, the paid financial resource under direct payments schemes so far exceeds 2,5 billion. lv. Upon completion of all the payments to the campaign, the total amount of direct support in the industry for the period 2017 - 2018 will amount to more than 3 billion. lv. The annual absorption of direct payments traditionally exceeds 96% of their budget. The annual amounts paid by the national budget exceed 300 million. lv. This is the addition to the component of direct payments in the guarantee fund. Exactly in that 300 million. lv. is the transitional national aid. Currently, Bulgaria pays for many schemes for livestock and tobacco and state aid, and minimis aid. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. lv. This includes the funds under the two national programmes for support for the fisheries and wine sector, school milk and fruit schemes, producer groups, as well as exceptional aid for milk and promotional programmes. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The budget of the National Programme for the Support of the Wine Sector is being implemented to a high extent, namely almost 90% per year. Its size is about 26 million. EUR per year. With regard to measures to support rural development. The highest negotiating rate compared to the available budget, namely 93%, has the local development approach led by the communities. In fact, almost all available resources are agreed on this measure. The second-axis compensatory measures follow where the average percentage of authorizations is above 50%, but by calculating the commitments made, which are five years old, in all our directions on the second-axis, over 90% of the budget is committed to measures 10, 11, 12 and 13. The public infrastructure investment measure is 73% negotiated in relation to the entire budget currently available and the investment in farms and food industry is 72% negotiated in relation to the budget. According to these two measures alone, the agreed resource amounts to 1 billion. Euros and over 2000 contracts. The main focus of the Rural Development Programme for 2014-2020 is young farmers. With a view to improving generations in agriculture and overcoming the ageing of more than 5400 farms employed in the sector are financed under investment measures, of which 3200 are young farmers and small farms. In the 2014-2020 programming period, the start-up aid measure has helped over 1330 young farmers to start their own agricultural business, with the subsidy being paid so far amounting to 47 million. Euros. In order to facilitate and further support for young people, a service is provided for free preparation of the business application plans, which is carried out by the Agriculture Council Office. And last but not least, I would like to point out that with all the admissions launched so far, more than 4,000 new jobs have already started, with which we hope to reduce the tide of young people from these areas. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that administrative reform was carried out at the beginning of 2018 in order to move towards e-appliance and management of projects under the Rural Development Programme, which was considered by beneficiaries as a huge relief. The same has a significant positive contribution to speeding up the process of processing the submitted project proposals. The adoptions carried out so far by electronic means are in 18 procedures and 11 measures from the Programme of a total amount of more than 400 million. EUR, for which, of course, I would like to thank the Bulgarian Parliament for the changes made in 2017 and early 2018 in the Law. Overall, from the beginning of the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, 3 billion have been agreed for the 2014-2020 programming period to March of this year. Three hundred and thirty million. BGN, which represents 58.3% of the budget of the Programme. By calculating the five-year commitments on the second axis they exceed 70% of the Programme. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes A significant part of them, i.e. 76%, representing the sum of 1 billion. 200 million. BGN, paid in the period 2017 to the beginning of 2019. For the last two years. For this year, we have foreseen the launch of new procedures worth more than 100 million. EUR public funds, and the measures are very many and I will not mention them at the moment. I am moving on to the common agricultural policy after 2020. We are currently in a period of intense negotiations on the legislative proposals of the European Commission concerning the common agricultural policy after 2020. The negotiation process is complicated by the fact that elections for the European Parliament are coming, and at the end of May a new European Commission choice. The draft regulations shall be discussed and proposed amendments to the working groups of the Council at expert level, to the Special Council on Agriculture at agricultural attaché level, and to the Council of the European Union on Agriculture and Fisheries at ministerial level. Each Member State shall also be able to express its position through adequate proposals to influence the legislative process. These discussions aim at drawing up final revised texts to be reviewed by the new composition of the European Parliament in the autumn of this year, when decisions under the multiannual financial framework are also expected to be finalised. After adopting the multiannual financial framework, which is expected to happen no earlier than December, this is what Commissioner Hogan said on his visit to Bulgaria, we will know the final budget for the common agricultural policy. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament voted at its meeting on 2 April 2019. The new composition of the European Parliament will adopt a position on the regulations of the common agricultural policy in plenary at the earliest at the beginning of 2020 and only afterwards, and with a position adopted by the Council, will be able to launch the trilateral negotiations of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council. You know the Commission's position, but there will be no consideration in the plenary of the European Parliament, so there will be no final opinion of the European Parliament. At the moment, only technical talks will continue within the Council. Of course, the Romanian Presidency is very actively working on the main topics. I'll open a clamp for the Multiannual Financial Framework. Mrs. Taneva very rightly emphasised for the first time in the preparation of the European Union budget we have first steps towards external convergence for budgets, a main topic and during our Presidency. In timely meetings that we have had with almost all the parliamentary forces, including Mr Joseph Dol, in the framework of the meeting with Mr Hogan, we have insisted precisely on this external convergence. With the 5% reduction in the budget for agriculture, such a percentage reduction is available for the Structural Funds, we have debated this with you, so I am not going to enter the debate on how this whole process has passed, we have a 4% reduction in the Guarantee Fund and a 15% reduction in rural development. What is for Bulgaria. Thanks to the external convergence on the algorithm, which is made for countries with less than 90% of the average, for the next programme period under the Guarantee Fund Bulgaria will have 0.7% more budget in absolute amount, or 5.7 billion at 5.3 billion. EUR in the current programming period. All old member states, which, of course, have higher subsidies, have a 3.9 to 4% reduction. With regard to the rural development budget. However, the reduction, as I mentioned to you, is close to 16% on purpose, this regulation allows these 16% to be compensated by co-financing from the national budget. We have had similar talks within the government with the finance minister, with the deputy prime minister for European affairs. Our vision is not to reduce the budget for rural development, to keep it in its current size................................................................................................... EUR to be compensated by an additional 300 billion. EUR for the next seven years and no reduction for rural development. Of course, Bulgaria has supported the Presidency immediately after the Presidency, because during the Presidency we were not entitled to active positions, active opinion, the two main documents for increasing the budget for the common agricultural policy: the Memorandum which they signed in Madrid France, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, and a Common Position, Bulgaria is part of it, precisely for the preservation of this budget. A similar topic was discussed during Mr. Hogan's visit to Bulgaria with Mr. Boyko Borisov. We hope that when examining the Multiannual Financial Framework, a decision will be reached to increase the total budget for the common agricultural policy. Several are the main issues related to the topics that excite the implementation of the CAP and support in the agricultural sector. These are: firstly, we commented on it; secondly, the ceilings of payments and tied proceedings. Perhaps we will debate them further, but these are topics that are extremely important so that we can have adequate funding both in sensitive sectors, such as fruits and vegetables, of course, livestock and organic production, and in terms of area payments, in order to have competitive farming, which in the part of cereal production, for example competes with the countries of the Black Sea basin. The three legislative proposals are huge, are currently under consideration, the revised proposals are expected to be presented to both the Commission and the Member States. But what I have mentioned to you is that the trilateral dialogue can and will begin after the adoption of the European Parliament's position, which will definitely not be sooner than the beginning of next year. So the formation of the European Parliament, the structuring of the committees, whether they will support this report, which has been drafted, or will revise it, or make a new one, is now a decision of the European Parliament. Bulgaria is preparing itself, regardless of when they will be approved, namely the preparation of the Strategic Plan, which is a fundamental document for financing in the new common agricultural policy. The strategic plan must cover all objectives that are set and which are financed not only by rural development but also by direct payments. These are three SWOT analyses, which must present the state, of course, and the financial, of all different sectors in Bulgarian agriculture and food, so that priorities can be defined. The first SWOT analysis, the most important one, namely agriculture and food, has already been commissioned, the deadline for its preparation is by the end of May, after which we will put it to public discussion, of course, with the Bulgarian Parliament. The other two analyses for regional development in rural areas and the environmental one. These are three SWOT analyses which are an integral part of the preparation of the Strategic Plan. So Bulgaria will carry out all preliminary procedures before the approval of the final texts of the regulations. In order not to waste time and once approved, to be able to adapt them with the relevant changes and to be proposed for approval in the respective levels in our republic. I suppose there will be further questions, so I'll leave some of the very large information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. Honourable Members, we are continuing with questions under the order of the parliamentary groups, as is the regulation in the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the first question on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, according to the information presented, the budget for rural development in the new common agricultural policy has suffered a serious reduction, which will affect the measures in the new programming period. In the context of a reduced budget for the Rural Development Programme, what should be the priority measures for Bulgaria, topics for which more funding should be allocated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u73	Thank you, dear Matsurev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr. Matsurev, ladies and gentlemen! The budget, as initial estimates, was reduced by nearly 16%. We hope with a national solution, if the global budget is maintained, to cover with national funds and funding, and to preserve the budget in Bulgaria, but this does not mean that we should not direct the money to the most prioritized sectors. Certainly, we need to focus on what SWOT analysis will show, what we will be putting into the Strategic Plan, and the objectives that will be financed under the Strategic Plan. Undoubtedly, there are many priorities here that need to be put in place by a regulation. But what we now have as a necessity are precisely investments in production and processing, because we have an imbalance in investment, especially for processing, in the fruit and vegetables sectors, partly in agriculture, storage of fruit and vegetables. It was also a coincidence yesterday that we decided on the new state aid that we are opening with a budget of 7 million. And 200,000. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. And 600,000. This year and the next so much, precisely for investments in processing and storage of fruits and vegetables. Investments, of course, a public municipal structure in sensitive sectors that do not have the opportunity, but must be preserved and developed as industries. This will be derived in the relevant SWOT analyses, but it is not some secret.. and it is now visible that these will be the sensitive sectors that are currently experiencing their difficulties. Of course, they must be financed within the framework of the relevant rules in terms of the economic effectiveness of each project. Undoubtedly, young producers, the renewal of the generation must once again be a priority in the Rural Development Programme. We have explicit obligations for greening, explicit obligations for digitalization or digitization in agriculture. So these are parameters that will once again find their place in the funding of the Programme. Once again, I hope that we will succeed in having a budget size comparable to the current one, and, of course, in optimising costs, especially in the various compensatory measures that we have on the second axis. We think that we can achieve.. at the moment is very good efficiency, but also better efficiency in the absorption of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. We'll continue with the next question. Dear Minister, today you will have no questions from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Therefore, the next question is on behalf of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you are, dear Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u76	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related to a question, which was on 26 January 2018, concerning tobacco producers from Northeastern Bulgaria as a whole, that 2010 We all know, on Monday, the Prime Minister attended a meeting with tobacco producers, to which they had obligations from a Greek company................................................................................................................................................................ In your reply then, a year and a few months ago, you say that there is no way to cover the funds from the state, either from the budget or in any other way. After the intervention of Mr. Borisov, which we thank him for on my behalf and on behalf of all tobacco producers from Northeastern Bulgaria, as far as I know from them, there is some movement on the issue not only for Mihailydis. Please let us know what really happened yesterday to the best of my knowledge, at a State Fund meeting there has been some development on the matter. The question is an answer to both me and the people who are waiting for some answer and a solution to their problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u78	Thank you. Dear Mr. Sabanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There's definitely movement. In the context of the topic today, it is this question that you are asking me. What we could do as an opportunity to support is precisely individual de minimis support for each producer for financial damage incurred from previous periods. Everyone, in order to be able to do this support, must register and be a tobacco producer right now, because we cannot directly pay obligations. It must be registered this year.. The time limit for applications and registrations is currently running. One problem is that Isperih-BT, which is a private company, I would like to stress this after the privatisation and liquidation has already been deleted. It is difficult for us to get the documents available for the people we have been looking for, meetings with a trade union, but it has already been deleted. With regard to the other case: it is a little easier there on the basis of protocols, contracts that are available; in a similar way it was paid to those who were with a mission So the instructions will describe the order. We'll make a public announcement. Today at 11:00 he has a meeting with the union of Mihaidis. I expect the tobacco associations this afternoon, precisely to comment on these debates. If we have to, we will make a slightly longer deadline for applying for the Isperih-BT, because here the documentary moment may be a major problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u79	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You have the floor, dear Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u80	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! From the debates so far on the occasion of the new common agricultural policy, it has become clear that one of the major changes, the radical change that is being proposed, is the opportunity to give Member States the opportunity to integrate their national interests within the framework of the common agricultural policy regulated by directives and regulations. In other words: it enables member states to develop national strategic plans for the development of agriculture in the new programming period. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the vision, what are the measures, what is the idea of the Ministry for the development of this important document in a national strategic plan for the development of Bulgarian agriculture after 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Abase, ladies and gentlemen! I've marked what we're doing to prepare strategic plans. Our vision is that by the end of the year we will have supposed after the development of SWOT analyses, after their public discussion, especially for the first, which is related to agriculture and food, of course, and the second, also the regions, the regional analysis, it is also extremely important, it is ecologically not less, but there is a little more specialized matter, based on public discussion, we need to make priorities, set goals, and these objectives set out in the regulation, to define the interventions for which we are going to apply. Whatever I say right now, it's gonna be off the record. As I mentioned to you, the first analysis has already been assigned to the Institute of Agricultural Economics at the Agricultural Academy. They have a lot of information. Whatever additional information they need will be provided by the Ministry so that we can take this picture and perspective of the sector in the coming years. Of course, since this is a new matter, the Strategic Plans Regulation has been given many trainings. I have made contact with three other countries to exchange experience at a purely expert level in preparing these strategic plans. Our experts have already visited two of them. The other day, with the Romanian minister, you know, we had a government visit, a joint meeting, we also agreed to cooperate in this area. What we need to do in advance before we wait for the regulations, we will work on it. The first analysis will perhaps present it at the end of May, the beginning of June, and it will be the key to sensitive sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u83	Thank you, dear Minister. On behalf of the WOLF Parliamentary Group? No question. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB, welcome, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, you just mentioned that young people and the renewal of generations are a priority in the concept of the European Union's new common agricultural policy because of the ageing of people engaged in agricultural activity and the depopulation of rural areas. In this regard, it is also my question, namely: what measures should be taken in Bulgaria to attract young people in the sector of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u85	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Dear Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u86	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The common agricultural policy has a significant potential to stimulate the entry of young farmers into the agricultural sector. However, processes of deterioration of the demographic structure of agricultural workers and depopulation of rural areas continue to be observed, which is not only a challenge for Bulgaria, but also a trend in all countries of the European Union, and not only of the European Union One of the real opportunities for countering these negative processes along with stimulating the acquisition of education, various trainings, improving qualification, as well as free advice and consultation is the implementation of an accelerated digital transformation of Bulgarian agriculture. Young farmers have the potential to make the transition to digital agriculture. Automation of production processes will give a strong boost to labour productivity and will contribute to resource efficiency and the formation of stable incomes. The ministry has already presented a draft strategy for digital agriculture, which will stimulate priorities and policy objectives in the field of digital transformation of agriculture, and will set concrete measures and activities for their implementation. An EU-level supplement, defining the specific needs of young farmers and applying complementary measures on both pillars within the framework of the future common agricultural policy, combined with measures at national level to facilitate young people's access to lending, business start-up relief, land acquisition opportunities and possible tax reductions, will benefit the generation renewal process. It is certainly not only the common agricultural policy that should be the instrument but should be combined with national measures. You know, we've been working on a land relations bill. He is currently working with a large task force that has already been formed. There, too, we had set priority landing for young farmers. Of course, the way to finance them with certain.. even if you will, tax relief or credit, we also believe that it should be combined with the measures under the common agricultural policy. Undoubtedly, in the strategic plan itself, in addition to funding, we must also develop a targeted section relating precisely to the regeneration of generations in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u87	Thank you, dear Minister. We do not have a second question from the group of the United Patriarchs and the group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We move on to expression of attitude on the responses received by Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank Minister Porozhanov for his comprehensive statement on the successes achieved in the implementation of the common agricultural policy in Bulgaria and the future challenges we face in implementing this policy in the new programming period. The latest development on the reform of the common agricultural policy is the approval of the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in the European Parliament on 2 April as regards the Strategy Plan Regulation, which is the main one of the contact package proposals for a common agricultural policy after 2020. Approval of the Commission's position is a major step in strengthening the European Parliament's position on tripartite negotiations with the European Commission and the Council on the regulation. The next step is the vote in plenary, which will happen after the new parliament is formed. In theory, this enables the new composition of the Committee on Agriculture in the European Parliament to possibly revise some elements. Over 600 are the amendments proposed by the Commission and some of the main elements of these amendments are: a mandatory ceiling of 100 thousand. EUR, but without eco schemes and young farmers and after deduction of 50% of the declared salaries, additional support for young farmers for seven instead of five years plus grants for starting a higher agricultural business, for young farmers the mandatory environmental conditions are simplified, increasing support for fruit and vegetable organisations under certain conditions, as well as 15% for environmental measures with an exception for at least three activities. With regard to rural development, some new types of interventions are included.. participation of women and digitalization. It shall be possible to apply the risk management instruments voluntarily. With regard to the sectors of beekeeping and wine, the intensity of support is increased compared to the European Commission's proposal in the sector of beekeeping and for the sector of beekeeping includes a minimum budget for environmental measures of 20% of the first pillar to be intended for eco schemes. The new implementation model shall be postponed by one year until 2022. From Minister Porozhanov's statement on Bulgaria's position, expressed so far, it can be concluded that the key topics that we should continue to defend at an active level in the European Union are those of voluntary ceilings of payment under the first pillar, increasing levels of tied support, and finding an alternative solution for replacing transitional national aid. All these elements, particularly tied support, ensure the avoidance of collapse in supported sectors that are critically required for this funding. Furthermore, the potential reduction would not justify the legitimate expectations of farmers for a stable trend of funding and would be a step backwards from the objective of maintaining a competitive, sustainable and quality sector. They are a guarantee to direct support to sectors with difficulties and ensure fair income for farmers engaged in heavy and unattractive agricultural production. I would like to draw attention to the fact that placing an upper limit on direct payments should not put our farmers and the sustainability of farms which contribute to the provision of gross added value and are at the heart of the sector in the country. In addition, we must not forget that in order to respond to the increased future challenges and increased environmental ambition, we must have an adequate and strong budget in the common agricultural policy, as well as a simplified and flexible model of its implementation. It is essential that the ambitions relating to greening and the environment in the European Union are achieved in the most simple and effective way possible. Member States must therefore have sufficient freedom to decide on the development of effective measures in accordance with the competitive situation in which they are located. I would like to stress that it is necessary to develop a simplified policy for the benefit of farmers, Member States of the Union and the environment. It is very important that we find unanimous states so that we can effectively defend our common positions at all levels of discussion. I think it is important that we continue to participate in the general declarations and statements, which, as we have heard from Minister Porozhanov, is being made at the moment. It is in our interest to remain active and to work intensively in the Bulgarian position, as now comes the busiest part of the negotiations At the same time, working at national level to prepare Bulgaria's strategic plan is identified repeatedly in view of the deadline set after the beginning of 2020. I hope, as so far, that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will continue its fruitful and active cooperation with its partners in the sector, who have always had the opportunity to express their positions and be heard. Thank you once again, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Rykov. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new questions for the period from 29 March to 4 April 2019. We have a written answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kolev. We continue with the questions to Minister Porozhanov: The first question is from the National Representative Krastina Taskova on a forum about the Double Standard for Food in the European Union. Dear Ms. Taskova, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, on April 30, 2018 under the auspices of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov was held an International Conference The Double Standard for Food in the European Union to put the problem on the table! The event was organized by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria "Maya Manolova," in partnership with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Health, the Consumer Protection Commission and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. In relation to this forum and the clearly stated positions of everyone on whom it depends on the Bulgarians to eat high-quality food, equal in composition and quality, I would also add at prices in the European Union, please answer the following questions: one year later what are the results after the forum and your vision to solve this problem in accordance with the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in this area, and can you commit to a period after which European citizens will not be divided by criteria and quality of food?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u91	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u92	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, I can't help but thank you for the questions you ask me about this and the other. They are always up to date, and it is my pleasure to be able to respond to them. It is good that we already have a vision on the 16th of this month in the European Parliament will be considered the four directives, namely the package proposed by Commissioner Vera Jurova. A little more information. The EU's Double Standard Food Forum was held in Sofia on 30 April, within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council, with the participation of Justice Commissioner Vera Jurova, who presented the views of the European Commission on upcoming changes in several European directives. Changes will be able to help eliminate food production practices sold under the same brand but with different ingredients on different markets in different Member States. Only after the adoption of the directives will it be possible to move on to steps to impose sanctions on producers who continue to apply unfair practices - misleading consumers. In April 2018, the European Commission proposed a package of legislative changes in order to better protect consumers. The package, called the New Consumer Deal, includes proposals to amend four directives, the Council Directive on unfair clauses in consumer contracts, the Consumer Protection Directive on the indication of the prices of goods offered to consumers, the Consumer Rights Directive and the latter, but perhaps most important to us, the directive on trade-related practices by traders to consumers, which explicitly defines as misleading the marketing of products under the same trade mark but with different compositions. Again last year, the European Commission, through the Joint Research Centre, developed a harmonised food selection and analysis methodology allowing national authorities to conduct research comparing the composition and characteristics of foodstuffs sold with similar packaging in the European Union. The research methodology will help national authorities to verify that food products are traded in full compliance with Union legislation. The methodology is based on key principles such as transparency, comparability, selection of similar samples and product trials. In July last year, Bulgaria was officially invited by the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission to participate in the European campaign to assess the quality characteristics of food brands sold under a particular brand, more popular as a study of the existence of a double standard in food. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency subsequently took samples for analysis of 96 products and then sent all processed information to the Joint Research Centre in Belgium. Samples are from cereal, milk, meat products, chocolate and n samples over 15 components, but I will not list them all. The main work in the future depends on when the legislative files at European Union level will be adopted? As I have already pointed out, the negotiations started in the Bulgarian Presidency in April 2018. Unfortunately, during the second half of last year during the Austrian Presidency there was a certain calm in relation to this dossier. At the beginning of this year intense negotiations were launched on the proposal within the Romanian Presidency. In a very short period of time, the Romanian Presidency managed on 1 March this year to receive a mandate from Coreper to negotiate with the European Parliament, which had adopted its position a month earlier. On 11 March the official negotiations between the Council and Parliament began. After the Bulgarian Presidency placed the issue at the highest level, the Romanian Presidency set a goal and programme to finalise the negotiations launched in the European Parliament by the end of March. Of course, both sides of Parliament and the Council are ambitious to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion, which does not mean that this will be too easy. Only after the adoption of these files can work on their transposition into the Bulgarian legislation, as well as in any other, of all the Member States of the European Union. As you know, this is more for our viewers, the regulations apply directly, while the directives, in this case we are talking about a package of four directives, they must be transposed into the legislation of each European country in order to be able to apply them. In the meantime, I cannot fail to note that the European Commission approved a pilot project to combat the double standards of food in the European Union, proposed by the Bulgarian MEPs from the EPP " Emil Radev and Andrei Novakov." It is approved with the highest possible grade A evaluation and the project is a program that will support all consumer organizations in their contacts with the state authorities and conduct tests to combat the double standard. This is a program on which consumer organisations will be able to apply and which is worth 1.3 million. Euros. The allocation is expected to increase their capacity, purchase of equipment and so on. The good news quite from the last days is that on the 16th of this month there will be a review of the Package of the four directives in the European Parliament, so that if the European Parliament approves it, the finalisation of the directives can be started. In conclusion, what we have activated in the Bulgarian Presidency as a process, we should also thank, of course, Commissioner Jourova for the Package, which has been proposed, also the Romanian Presidency. Last Friday, I discussed this topic with the Romanian minister with a personal request to do everything possible to finalise the directives. We hope that, before closing the mandate of this European Parliament, we can have approved directives, then in the fastest way, together with the Bulgarian Parliament, to transpose them into our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u93	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. I can't help but say I'm glad you're working on it. I attended this forum and I remember the loud headlines that Bulgarian children could not love cocoa more than chocolate and that this would end. We are all aware that food is essential not only as tasteful qualities, but is essential to the health of our nation. In fact, in my memories, the prime minister was astonished why he constantly gave so much money in the sector, and it was because we ate poorly. I would also like to remind you that I put this question before you at the beginning of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, and we at WAL have defined the division of food criterion as commodity racism for the citizens of the European Union. One year after that, I was hopeful that we will finally find a quick and effective solution, because at the forum they expressed support, as you said, and representatives from the member states, and Vera Yurova, European Commissioner for Justice, and such steps and decisions were taken that things would seem to be moving faster. I understand that all the spotlights, if I may say so, are aimed at you, because in the end you have to do all the work. I can only wish you good luck! Your colleague from Romania finalises this because it is important for every Bulgarian citizen and hopefully takes place within the framework of the European Presidency of Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u96	Thank you. For a reason, I thanked you for these questions when you asked the question, this was one of the first parliamentary questions. I just want to make one point: these directives do not only apply to food, they have a horizontal dimension. They refer to absolutely all products by taking detergent and whatever else you can think of. Co-workers from the Ministry of Economy are leading them because they have a horizontal character. Of course, food is perhaps the most sensitive topic and we address it in particular. Here I cannot fail to insert a clamp in which to draw attention to the directives, let us transpose them, they do not apply only to producers from the Western concern, but also to the Bulgarian producers. So they will also very strictly look at their recipe and what is written on the label both on the Bulgarian market and on all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u97	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is again by the MP Krastina Taskova on reducing food waste. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u98	Dear Minister, in relation to my 2017 question about reducing food waste in Bulgaria and in Europe, you have stated readiness to take measures to make this happen, but since the topic was relatively new, you have assured us that you will still work on it. To this day, I ask you to answer me: what measures have been taken to address this serious problem by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry so far and have there been positive results in this direction already achieved?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u99	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u100	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Taskova, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations FAO per year, one third of the world's food produced, or 1.3 billion tonnes, are discarded, with about 88 million tonnes worth 143 billion euros in EU alone. In 2015, the UN General Assembly adopted sustainable development targets by 2030. According to Objective 12.3 globally by 2030, half of food waste per capita should be reduced at retail and household level, and food chain losses should also be reduced, including after harvest losses. In order to support the implementation of our country's commitment to achieving it, as well as the European Union's priorities in this area, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has undertaken a number of actions and initiatives. In order to support the activity and successful functioning of the Bulgarian Food Bank, after the regulatory changes that were made in the Law on Value Added Tax and the Food Act, a list of food products was established in 2017 by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. In addition to the food to be donated, the aspects related to the minimum duration and shelf life of the food were also regulated, which in practice enabled the real implementation of activities related to food banking. According to data from the Bulgarian Food Bank, which the Ministry has, over the last seven years, over 1540 tonnes of food products have been donated and served. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are actively working and supporting all organizations that, following the Food Act and the safety requirements laid down in European and national legal rules, contribute to reducing the disposal of good food. Another very important initiative of the office is aimed at taking a complex of measures to reduce the loss and waste of food and food waste. With my order of 21 November last year, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established to develop a National Programme with an action plan for it in relation to the problem referred to above. At present a draft National program for prevention and reduction of food loss has been prepared. The proposed period of action of the Programme is 2019. Depending on the results achieved, the development of a national programme for the next five-year period is envisaged. The draft National Programme includes the following areas of action: prevention of food loss; redistribution of the surplus of edible food for consumption by people in need; awareness and awareness of the problem of food waste. The project presents possible causes of food losses, indicating both the challenges and the areas of measures and activities to prevent and reduce food losses along the food chain, including in households. Several are the main goals. The first objective is to create a national database related to food loss levels. The second objective is to support food chain companies to take effective measures to prevent and reduce food loss. A third objective is to change the behaviour and attitude of consumers towards food. Almost 53% of food waste generated in the European Union occurs in households, which offers huge potential to combat food waste. The fourth objective is to implement measures to prevent loss and waste of food at source. Measures are provided for to promote the correct use by food manufacturers of the label marking indicating the shelf-life or durability of food and to increase consumers' knowledge of the importance of this marking for the different types of food. The fifth operational objective is to optimize the donation of fit foods for consumption by people in need. Much of the unrealized foods are safe for consumption and can be donated to charities instead of being wasted. The results of the activities of the Bulgarian Food Bank and the Bulgarian Red Cross show that there is great potential for increasing the donation of food. On 12 February this year, the National Programme project was presented to the stakeholders at the Center for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain Round Table, which was the topic of the discussion on the fight against food loss in Bulgaria. Representatives of the Ministry, Food Agency, Ministry of Environment and Water, NSI, Bulgarian Food Bank, associations, branch unions, associations of producers and food and media traders took part in the forum. The successful implementation of measures to prevent and reduce food loss can only be achieved by combining efforts of state authorities and all stakeholders, such as food producers and traders, consumers, scientific institutes, NGOs with an interest in the problem. In conclusion, it should be noted that food safety is a priority and that measures to prevent and reduce food loss should not jeopardise current food safety standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u101	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, Mrs. Taskov? You don't. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the National Representative Krasen Krastev on the change of the categorization of the dam 3, para. 1 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. You have the floor, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u102	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Minister Porozhanov, my question is about a change in the categorization of the dam 3, para. 1 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Dear Minister, according to art. 2, para. 4 of the said regulation in the dams indicated above no recreational fishing may be carried out. The only exception is referred to in art. 15, para. 3 in dams and state property intended for aquaculture where there is no registration under art. 25 of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, recreational fishing is permitted. In the present case, if the dam is rented or concessiond, such registration will necessarily be carried out and an obstacle to the pursuit of recreational fishing will be created again. After a meeting on 22 March this year with the mayor of the town of Vratsa, the deputy governor of Vratsa district and the manager of the Irrigation Systems. Dear Minister, in this regard are the following questions: will the lease procedure or concession be undertaken at the specified dam? Is it possible to change the status of the dam, which the thousands of fishing lovers express in the area? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Krastev, I have here a very analytical answer that does not correspond to what I will answer you now, and Mrs. Avramova has just convinced me that the purpose will be changed. It must be clear that there are expenses on the dam. I don't think they're that big that the irrigation systems can't cover their own. Of course, they're connected to the dam. It should be borne in mind that when there is a commitment to a concessionaire or tenant, it takes care of aquaculture inside so that at some point it does not remain without available resources for fishermen. I will do everything I can to change its purpose and be free fishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u105	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Krastev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! That's the answer everyone's waiting for. I am authorized on behalf of several organizations and citizens to hand over a copy of a signature that will officially and originally come to you. Once again, the government of Mr. Borisov and you, the two ministers who are at the moment, have shown how it works and how good and correct decisions are made. Thank you on behalf of the people who are not disturbed are going to fish in the dam. Something's been fixed, I think it's useful. [[The National Representative Krasen Krastev gives a folder to Minister Rumen Porozhanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. Dear Minister Porozhanov, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, as well as for the competent and complete answers you gave during the hearing. Dear colleagues, we continue with Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will answer three questions. The first of them is the MP Dimitar Boychev for rehabilitation of the road I-6 Sofia Burgas, in the section exit of the highway Trakiya. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The maintenance and rehabilitation of roads from the Republican Road Network are one of the primary policies and objectives of the state. This ensures safe and comfortable travel for Bulgarian citizens, as well as the different regions of our country develop. One of the sections with constantly intensive traffic in the district of Burgas is road I-6 Sofia Burgas or as we all know it highway. In 2018, there was an urgent repair of the road mentioned in the section in the direction of the district of Vestren and Burgas, which is the entrance of the highway of Trakiya. It is part of the highway. The goal was for the coming cars from the west to enter Burgas on a significantly more comfortable and safe road, which has been achieved at present. Burgas Municipality also had a self-participation in the implementation of the renovation in June last year. After its completion, the road in one direction was rehabilitated and the other half was left without the necessary repair. This artery is extremely important, as it is, as we said, part of the highway. It takes and takes traffic from one of the largest cities in the country. Currently, the unrehabilitated section is in the direction of the exit of Burgas to the district of Velveten, where hundreds of residents of the Burgas quarter travel each day to their homes. As part of the highway, it does not meet the requirements for good and safe infrastructure. With the summer season approaching, traffic on the specified area is increasing significantly, whose condition is currently unsatisfactory for comfortable travel and poses a risk of traffic accidents. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: When is the rehabilitation of the road section of the Burgas exit expected to begin in the direction of the district of Velveten? Is there money available for the implementation of the renovation by the Road Infrastructure Agency? What are the deadlines for its implementation? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, Republican Road I-6 Sofia - Karlovo - Burgas, in the section of the district of Burgas with a length of 7.8 km from km 488 +335 to km 496+160 is located in the urbanized territory of the city. The section represents two lanes with a width of 8 m and a dividing strip with a width of 2 m. The division is a link between the highway "Trakiya" and the city of Bourgas, as you have just mentioned. The main reason for the unsatisfactory condition of the asphalt pavement of the road is heavy traffic, passing along the highway towards and from the border points for the Republic of Turkey, the Hellenic Republic, the Southern Black Sea coast, as well as the significantly more intense during the summer months transport flow to and from the resort complex Sunny Beach and the city of Varna. The substantial funds invested for ongoing maintenance in recent years have not resulted in a lasting improvement in the quality of asphalt. Taking into account this condition and the need to ensure safe movement on the first-class road, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Burgas concluded in 2018. A controversial protocol for joint financing for the re-asphalting of the two road lanes on the Republican road I-6 in the section from km 488 to km 496. The responsibilities between the two institutions under the signed Protocol are allocated as follows: the Road Infrastructure Agency is involved in the financing of the site with an amount of 8 million. Three hundred thousand. BGN, Burgas Municipality participates in the financing of the site with funds of 1 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, and the municipality must carry out the organization, award and control of the implementation activities. The arbitration protocol shall be until the envisaged work has been carried out, but no later than 31 October 2019. In 2018, repair activities were carried out on the right road in the section of the end of the district of Velveten. The commissioning of construction works included cutting asphalt flooring, making a second bitumen spill, machine laying a solid asphalt mixture with a thickness of 4 cm, laying a non-solid asphalt mixture with a thickness of 4 cm, laying a geoweb, crushed stone, making a mechanized excavation, delivery and installation of restrictive systems, etc. It is planned that this year the repair will be completed by assigning repair activities in the left road from the exit of Burgas to the beginning of the district. The total cost of repairing the asphalt flooring of the two sails is 9 million. $800,000. lv. At this stage, the Road Infrastructure Agency under the Argumentative Protocol has to repay 4 million by 30 May 2019. Three hundred and fifty thousand. In order to provide the other funds, the Agency's 2019 budget will be considered or targeted funding from the state budget will be sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u111	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I would like to tell you, because I have spoken with the municipality and with the mayor, they are prepared to meet the commitments they have made with self-participation and with the other commitments they have under the organization of the movement. You understand yourself that we are on the verge of the summer tourist season and it is very important that this repair starts and ends before the traffic increases, because it becomes really very intense during the summer tourist season. I hope this renovation will start in the foreseeable future and end before the active season, because among other things, first of all, it is the safety of road infrastructure, but this time with its intensity is also a prerequisite for increasing economic growth both for the region and for all of us. Thank you for your answer. I really hope that before the beginning of the summer tourist season we will have a complete repair that is adequate to the road infrastructure, which implies a highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. We continue with the next question to Minister Avramova and he is from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev and is about financing road sections with state and European funds in the territory of Burgas region. We will continue with a question from the National Representative Sergey Kichikov on the rehabilitation of Republican road III-379 (Peshtera Here you are, dear Mr. Kichikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, during meetings with residents of the villages Nova mahala and Fotinovo, the municipality of Batak, the question was raised regarding the condition of road III-379 (Peshtera. Batak) village Nova mahala. The same in the section from km 0 to km 10+051 is with daily passage of multiple heavy goods vehicles carrying timber, resulting in very poor technical condition, with multiple local damage. In places, there is a danger of falling, making it difficult to move on. As a result of the systematic failure to maintain the road and the adjacent terrains, the asphalt pavement on both sides is damaged and in places missing, making the traffic dangerous and a prerequisite for fatal crashes. The above section is narrow, steep, with multiple sharp turns and no visibility. Due to the fact that the road is narrow and there are no boards, cars often end up in the riverbed or in the ravine, and this in turn is a strong threat to the health and life of the users of the road section. The same is the only road link from and to the villages Nova pendulums and Fotinovo, which is why it urgently needs major repairs, including the work on repairing the damage and laying new asphalt, as well as the implementation of system care to ensure its year-round normal operation. In order to prevent adverse incidents where necessary, guardings should be placed because they are not available. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there any funds provided in the budget of your Ministry in this year 2019 for the main rehabilitation and repair of the road described above? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Kichikov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kichikov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Third-class road III-379 (Peshtera "Batak") village Nova mahala - Valcha Polyana locality with a length of 10 km from km 0 to km 10+051 is located entirely on the territory of Batak municipality. A complete repair is needed to bring the road into good condition. You correctly noted that his condition was not good and pointed out all the defects on the pavement that you yourself have observed. In order to repair and repair this road, a major repair is needed with an estimated estimate of around 7 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Unfortunately, the Agency's budget as of this year, as in almost 20 years, is limited, with great underfinancing, and like the previous years, this prevents us from planning major repairs in that area. With a view to securing the movement along the third-class road along the current maintenance, the following measures will be taken: Regional road management Pazardzhik, has drawn up a request for restoration of destroyed containment system 56 m following an accident at the beginning of the road at the village of Nova Mahala, which is to be approved and issued by the Road Infrastructure Agency. By the end of April action will be taken and patched holes in the pavement and damaged pavement will be taken, and at the moment due to the high altitude of the terrain the pavement is still wet and this hinders asphalt work. Activities to mend the compromised sections of the road will also be planned during the summer season according to the maintenance budget. The lack of financial resources for the major repair of all those in need of this on the Republican road network requires prioritisation in the preparation of the programme for major and ongoing repairs of the Road Infrastructure Agency, taking into account both the state of the road and the traffic that passes along the road. In 2019, the Agency can make ongoing repair and patching of the pavement, as well as securing and restoring the restrictive systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u117	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Kichikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, unfortunately, I am not satisfied with your answer, as I think that patching and repairing only on the pavement is not enough. The road is really in a miserable state. I've been traveling all the time to my constituents, so I've been there very recently. You also have a folder that I show you, with over 1,300 signatures of residents of Batak, Nova neighborhood and Fotinovo village. This is the only way to the villages of Fotinovo and Nova neighborhood. More than 3,000 inhabitants live there, where this is their only link to other cities. The inhabitants of these three settlements expressed to me the opinion that if it does not come to normal maintenance of the road, they are also ready for more extreme actions. I hope at least the repair will be quality so that a good pavement can be provided for both the trucks and the people travelling on the road.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kichikov. Madam Secretary? You're not gonna get any attitude. Dear colleagues, we are returning to the matter from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev. He's already in the gym. It is about financing road sections with state and European funds in the territory of Blagoevgrad district. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister! My question is about financing road sections with state and European funds in the territory of Blagoevgrad region. Ms. Minister, Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works financed, managed and implemented numerous infrastructure projects in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, I have two questions for you, namely: What priority road sections will be financed by state funds in 2019 in the territory of Blagoevgrad district and for what amount? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u121	Thank you. Madam Secretary, come in. You have the opportunity to answer the question of the MP Alexander Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Matsurev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the territory of Blagoevgrad District Agency According to data from a survey of the Regional Road Management.. Blagoevgrad, as of 31 December 2018, the second-class road network with a total length of 152 km is fully in good condition. The third-class road network has a total length of 417.9 km, of them in good condition are 157 km, the rest need to carry out repair activities. The Road Infrastructure Agency is familiar with the unsatisfactory state of the third-class Republican network in Blagoevgrad region and the need for permanent improvement of its operational state. Through budgetary resources, targeted funding and European co-financing, the Agency shall endeavour to improve the technical characteristics of roads in the field. Under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014 " 2020" between the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" and the Managing Authority of the Programme was concluded a contract for providing grant financial assistance for Lot 25 "The Road III-109 "Melnik" "from km 0+528" to km 12+815, with a total length of 12,29 km at a value of 9 196 732 лв. Following a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, a contractor of the construction supervision of the site was elected. An appeal period is ongoing and if no complaint has been received by 8 April 2019, a contract will be concluded with the selected contractor. Regarding the contract for construction, the Commission is currently assessing the technical proposals submitted by the participants. With the funds provided by the budget of the Agency, the main construction of the tunnel will be carried out at km 388+897 on the road I-1 (E A contract has been signed with a selected contractor for research and design works and construction worth BGN 3 212 722 and a contract for the award of a consulting service is also signed for construction supervision, amounting to BGN 54 720. The technical project is reviewed by the Expert Technical Economic Council of the Agency. In relation to the submitted assessment of the risks of execution of the site, without stopping the movement, the contractor is tasked to prepare a project for a temporary organisation of traffic using bypass routes. Currently, it is submitted to the Road Infrastructure Agency and an opinion from the Regional Service is expected from the Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. Construction works will start after the introduction of the temporary organisation of the movement and after the issue of Protocol No 2a for the opening of a construction site. In 2018, a public contract was announced with the subject of a contract for the construction of technical projects for major repairs (rehabilitation) on road III-1906 (Goce Delchev border Greece) Special position No 1 "from km 0 to km 18, from km 30 to km 50, and Separate position No 2 "from km 18 to km 30. The committee is currently examining the offers submitted. Upon completion of the work of the committee, the ranking of the participants will be announced. If there are no complaints, the contract will be signed with the selected designers and the estimated value for the two sections will be 790 thousand. lv. In the investment programme of the Agency, Road Infrastructure is set this year to announce public procurements for the construction of a technical project for the following sites: a bridge over the Canina river on road III-1905 and a bridge over the Struma river on road III-1008 and the estimated value of the two sites is about 140 thousand. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Shall I finish, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u123	Let's keep it to the back. He'll probably need a supplement once you have more information. We just delayed the time for the answer. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev. You have a line to give Mrs. Avramova the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer, but I hope that in the answer to my reply you will finish. I will pass on this information that I have received today to the residents of the municipalities of my electoral region, your personal commitment and that of the government for the realization of these projects and for the financing of road sections with state and European funds. We, as residents of this region, will monitor their implementation and the implementation of these projects, for which we thank you. Thank you for the information you provided us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Madam Minister, you have the opportunity in an additional two minutes for the duplicate to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition, Mr. Matsurev, every year on the Republican road network in Blagoevgrad, current repairs, drainage activities, landscape shaping, horizontal marking, replacement of damaged containment systems are carried out. The expenditure for 2018 amounts to 3 million. 451,000. lv. Over the past few years, due to a systemic shortage of funds, the Agency has had to carefully plan its investment programme, and in order to improve road infrastructure and ensure the safety and comfort of travellers, we will look for opportunities for a gradual implementation of the necessary repair activities on the third-class road network in Blagoevgrad region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u127	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with a question from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva to the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov. The issue is about a serious omission in the working conditions of employees from the Ministry of Interior. Here you are, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In connection with received signals from citizens in Sofia, living near the diplomatic missions of the countries with which Bulgaria maintains international relations, we were informed of a serious omission in the working conditions of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. After checking the places identified by the citizens, we found that there is no difference in their words and facts. The staff of the Ministry of Interior, who guard diplomatic missions, do not have mobile sanitary conditions for the normal performance of their duties. Nowhere within the perimeter of the outer guard of the embassy of the Russian Federation, for example, has any mobile bathroom been placed. The same applies to other diplomatic representations guarded by officers of the Ministry of Interior, which we will not name. In this regard, I ask you to answer: what is the reason why employees of the Ministry, who, apart from security, perform a representative function, do not have working conditions required by the labour law of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u130	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Georgieva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! By order of the Director of the Directorate-General of the National Police on the distribution of working hours and on the implementation of separate official activities, the Department of Gendarmerie, including its territorial units, has been determined that all civil servants in the Directorate of Gendarmerie, enjoy 10 minutes of physiological rest every two hours. The necessary organization has been established to provide physiological rests for the staff guarding diplomatic missions in implementation of the order of the Directorate. Mobile police groups shall carry out periodic tours of the premises and, where necessary, a physiological rest of the posts of the mobile police groups staff shall assume and carry out their duties on a temporary basis. The order in question is regulated by order and in the specific instructions of the officers, and the information about the need to change the employee is coordinated through the operational duty centre of the National Gendarmerie Management In view of the above, we believe that the working conditions created by the employees of the Department of Gendarmerie, guarding diplomatic representations, are in line with the labour legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be a line, Mrs. Georgieva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but, unfortunately, it does not make it clear to me personally whether changes in the working conditions of the Ministry of Interior are expected. Do you think that these 10 minutes per two hours are enough if they don't have a bathroom nearby where they can carry out their needs? Is that enough time for them? What is predicted as a change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Mr. Minister, can you clarify your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u134	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Georgieva, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! To specify what the mobile police group is, this is a task force of four or five employees moving by motor vehicle. If necessary, an employee remains to replace the one who needs it. With the motor vehicle, the person in need may be transported where it can be easily relieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Georgieva, this is how we complete the procedure for your question. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov and the National Representative Diana Savateva regarding the level of illegal migration and preventive security measures along the Bulgarian border. Mrs. Sawateva, you will develop the issue. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u136	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The topic of illegal migration does not lose actuality, no matter what the actual situation is at the moment. It is particularly sensitive to people who live in the border regions, who closely monitor all news related not only to the situation in Bulgaria, but also to the situations in Europe. As MPs from the Burgas region, together with my colleagues and specifically with Mr. Boychev, we periodically raise the issue of both the level of migration and the refugee pressure and the measures that the Ministry preventively takes and, if necessary, operational to respond to these events. It is normal to ask the question every few months because the situation is dynamic and what happened, for example, in the autumn of last year, there will now be other dimensions. Particularly sensitive is the topic of completing the overall security and surveillance system. In advance, it became clear that the cameras were located in three zones, the ones on which the maintenance period had expired, in the others there was an order, and in the third zone there were actually cameras operating. So in three parts, there was a different picture. That is why our current question is divided into several parts. One accent is: can you inform us what is the state of the overall system of integrated surveillance and security along the Bulgarian border, in particular the sensor networks? Our second question is: would you provide us with up-to-date data on migrant pressure for the entire past year and the first months of this? If you could just tell us how the 160 million is going. the euros Bulgaria received in 2016 from the European Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Sawateva, Dear Mr. Boychev, Dear Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! Border surveillance activities and border surveillance activities with the Republic of Turkey actively exploit the capabilities of the integrated surveillance system. The first phase of the integrated surveillance system is located in a section of the state border between the border crossings of Kapitan Andreevo and the border crossing Lesovo and was introduced into border surveillance in 2013. The second phase is located in the area between the border checkpoint Lesovo near the mouth of the Rezovska river on separate sections and directions from the border. This part is in working order and is actively used in border surveillance. For the post-warranty maintenance of the functioning part of the integrated monitoring system, funds are provided under the Internal Security Fund and some are in the process of conducting public procurement. A contract is currently being implemented for the extension of the integrated monitoring system along the Bulgarian-Turkish border or third phase. The project is implemented with the funds of the Internal Security Fund and after completion will be provided surveillance of another 59 km from the state border. The integrated surveillance system along the border with the Republic of Turkey will further integrate new fixed positions for technical surveillance. In order to ensure border surveillance in areas not covered by elements of the integrated surveillance system or where equipment failure is detected, mobile surveillance systems along the state border and in depth of the border area shall be used by helicopters of the specialised air surveillance unit of the Directorate-General for Border Police, which are equipped with surveillance systems. Border patrols, provided with manual and thermal imaging cameras, portable surveillance systems and night vision instruments, shall also be carried out. In recent years, there has been a reduction in migratory pressure, which is the result of the temporary obstruction of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, increased border control, good coordination and interaction of the competent institutions in limiting and countering the illegal crossing of the state border, fruitful cooperation with the "Frontex" and the agreement concluded between the European Union and Turkey to stop migration flows. In 2018, 689 illegal migrants were detained at entry to the state border, which is 7% less than in 2017, or 743 people were then. Among the detainees are the majority of Afghan citizens -- 28%, Iraq -- 20%, Syria -- 15% -- others are from different other destinations. The most dynamic of entry is the Bulgarian Turkish border 53 per cent of the total migration pressure on the borders of the country, where 5311 people have attempted to enter the country illegally, of which 350 are detained by the Bulgarian border authorities, and for the rest is prevented their illegal passage when interacting with Turkish border authorities. A 23% decrease is reported compared to 2017, when a total of 6904 persons are established at the Bulgarian Turkish border. In 2018, there was an increase in migratory pressure towards the Bulgarian-Greek border (Greek border) of 47% of the overall migration pressure on the country's border. There were 4662 persons who tried to pass illegally in the country: 293 persons were detained by the Bulgarian border authorities and for the rest of their illegal residence was prevented by the Greek border authorities. 6 times increase compared to 2017, when a total of 803 persons were found at the Bulgarian-Greek border. In 2018, 634 illegal migrants were detained at the exit of the state border, which is 74% less than in 2017, when they were 2413. Here, too, the citizens of Afghanistan are dominated by 41%, and Iraq is dominated by 30%. During the period 1 January, 31 March 2019 at the entrance to the state border, the total migration pressure was 692 persons, from whom a total of 112 third-country nationals were detained, and for the rest, their illegal passage was prevented. Once again, the citizens of Afghanistan are over 19%, and Iraq is over 18%. Since the beginning of the year, 43 illegal migrants have been detained on the Bulgarian-Turkish border.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u139	Let's leave it to the dot to finish the answer so we can stick to the procedure. I see Mrs. Sawateva has something else to add to the matter. Thank you, Minister, for understanding. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, to clarify and supplement the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We are all aware that the situation on the border and migration pressure are among the topics most favorable for creating and spreading false news, even worse for misinformation. I say worse, because when disinformation gets mixed up between true and false facts. This is quite malicious and is often used by, say, opposition forces, which people get into confusion with. Thank you for your willingness to export accurate and specific information so that people can be informed, as they say, firsthand, of what is happening along the border and what is the actual migration pressure. I would especially like to congratulate the Ministry for reacting very quickly when there were faucets for the construction of refugee camps in border areas and very detailed announcements of what this is about. Today's media show that you received an invitation from the mayor of Malko Tarnovo to visit the region. I hope you'll accept it. He has an interesting idea for cameras at the entrances of the settlements that are along the border. I do not know how much this is possible to be filled with funds of this 160 million. The euros I mentioned that we received to reinforce security? Maybe you can answer that question. Another trend, which impressed me, you stressed that while the pressure on the Bulgarian-Turkish border significantly declines in times, more migrants appear, who make a bypass route, so to call it, enter Greece and then try to penetrate Bulgaria across the Bulgarian-Greek border, where there is no fence. Would it be interesting to hear if any additional measures were taken to reinforce this part of the border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Secretary, come in. We note that the question requires a very voluminous answer.. You have this option. Interesting facts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Sawateva, Mr. Boychev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I received the request for a meeting from the mayor of Malko Tarnovo. Of course, it will be done. It will be explained and not only there, to all local residents will be explained what is aimed at carrying out this activity, and it is that at the moment when we can say that the pressure is small, we must prepare ourselves for possible crises, as the problem of migration is not solved worldwide. So we intend to prepare the infrastructure there for action in a possible crisis when we will have to act in a crisis situation with a view to illegal, or an attempt for illegal passage to prevent free movement in the country. Again, at this stage, the migratory pressure on our border with Turkey and with Greece is within normal limits and we are dealing with this problem. We are seriously following the situation in Greece. As you have noted, it is clear from the figures that at the moment, our more serious problem is the border with Turkey, as there is no obstruction of facility that has been built there on the basis of physical and technical control. Naturally, we have strengthened the posts, we have sent additional equipment there.. Thermovision cameras, night vision devices, video surveillance, posts, mobile patrols, so at this stage we quickly intercept the trials, and rapid communication with the Greek authorities leads to them not to cross illegally into our territory. Again, this process can always be heightened, so we must be ready for all kinds of situations. As regards the possibility of building video surveillance with the funds allocated under emergency measures within 160 million. EUR, of which there have already been around 78% of public procurement and they have been used or are in the process of absorption, I have asked for an analysis of whether this is acceptable under the conditions of these emergency measures and, if possible, after a conversation with the mayor of Malko Tarnovo, we will take appropriate action. Once again, our aim is to prevent such persons from moving freely and out of control throughout the country and to avoid the 2014 crisis, when the capital and other regions of the country were filled with illegal migrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Savateva, Mr. Petrov, I hope you are satisfied with both the answer and the additional time provided for this issue, which was really interesting and important to everyone. The next question is from the MP Aleksandar Sabanov, who sends us to the northern border and refers to the river border between Bulgaria and Romania. Here you are, Mr. Sabanov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is dictated by a number of other questions. The first one is set to Mrs. Zaharieva on 2 March 2018 and concerns the Sofia Convention, which regulates relations between Bulgaria and Romania, or, more precisely, the river border between Bulgaria and Romania. Then Mrs. Zaharieva said there was no information about the checks of the Talvega, which is the deepest part of the Danube River, in connection with the Sofia Convention signed in 1908 between Bulgaria and Romania. In this regard, I asked the Minister of Transport then Mr. Moskovski. He responded to me and came to the Ministry of Interior, because the Border Police is the service that really knows which border, i.e. the border between Bulgaria and Romania where and which islands are concerned. In this regard, I would like to mention that in art. 2 is described: the islands on the left side of the Talvega will form an integral part of the Romanian territory, and the islands placed in the right part of the Talvega, i.e. towards the Bulgarian side, will form an integral part of the Bulgarian territory. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 and in relation to Art. 14 of the same Convention every ten years is intended to make joint working groups to recognise the Talvega and to determine which island it is going to. That's a question I'm saying again, 110 years hasn't been asked. It turns out that 110 years since the signing of the Sofia Convention no joint working groups have been made between Bulgaria and Romania. I ask this question precisely in relation to a subsequent question, which I will also do to Mrs Zaharieva, who is a foreign minister, for actions in this direction. The whole saga began from the island of Vetren, located in km 396 of the Danube and in the words of local residents who know the history of this island very well, it was formed well after 1908 and was not described in this convention, it was not noted whose island it would be, but subsequently, in the 1970s, Romanian border guards took over it, so to speak, and since then it has been conducted Romanian, meaning there is a post of Romanian border guards. Just so you know, when we Google Maps look at the island, it's Bulgarian and it's really Romanian. I hope you will answer me not what the Sofia Convention is, because, again, I have been saying, for 110 years, I am the first to ask this question, but what the border police have actually done. I have sent you the maps of the islands and of the Talvega along the Danube, which were made in 2017. I hope for a comprehensive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u145	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u146	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Sabanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The Danube border was subject to the regulation of the following international treaties: the Convention for the definition of the Danube border of 1908; the 1919 Neue Treaty and the 1947 Paris Peace Treaty. About ownership. At present, individual islands are treated as controversial. A specific example is also the island of Vetren, which you pointed out in the question. The clarification of their territorial belongings is not within the competence of the Border Police and the Ministry of Interior. In transitional periods, no action has been taken, perhaps in view of the common European integration processes that took place in both countries and the pursuit of our common Schengen membership. Due to the non-solving in a lasting manner of the issue in 2008, a meeting between the border representatives of the two countries of Romania was held with mixed teams, as well as in response to the expectations of the local public, the Romanian border authorities have been asked to consider Romania's specific possession, but led by the desire for successful and fruitful cooperation, including within the framework of joint patrols on the river, as well as in response to the expectations of the local public, to the Romanian border authorities to consider the following: none of the two countries and their institutions to build any facilities on the island; to the same not to perform any business activities; the authorities of the Bulgarian and Romanian border guards to have the right to land on the island after prior notification of the other country; the Bulgarian side to present to the Romanian name list of persons, Bulgarian citizens, mainly by boat and fisheries village Vetren, which have the right to carry out the fishing activity of the island in the north. The fact that the same fishes with fishing nets made of nylon is not considered to be a violation of Romanian legislation, which fishing with such network appliances is considered even a crime against the environment. According to reports on the development of the island formations in the Bulgarian-Romanian section of the Danube, based on maps and the Lozmanian materials for the period 1908 and 1994, drawn up by the Management for the Maintenance and Study of the Danube River, now the Executive Agency for the Study and Maintenance of the Danube River in the city of Ruse, such islands are also the island of Kichu (Romanian), river km 710 to 712 and 500, the island of Big Brschlen (Brschlen) not located from river km 449 to 454, the island of Turning Romanian river km 398 to 400, as well as a number of newly formed islands since 1908. Some 29 to the right of the talvega and 26 to the left of the talvega leading now nameless. In carrying out border surveillance along the Danube River, the structures of the Regional Directorate of Border Police. However, as mentioned above, action has been taken to prevent tensions and to resolve the occurrence of border incidents in a manner that satisfies both parties. Regarding possible future investigation of the river border between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania, how many of the islands now belonging to Romania will become Bulgarian and vice versa could not be given an accurate answer before it was carried out. The reason for this fact is that such a transition from territorial belonging of one country to the other will become clear only after application by the governments of the two countries of the provision of art. 6 of the Convention of 1908 laying down the Danube border, namely: the two governments will recognise that an island has passed in an obvious and lasting way from one side of the Talvega to the other and will agree to the change of its possession when the two minimum probes in the lowest waters taken on the lines of the greatest depths on one side and on the other side of the island would reach a difference of at least 30% of the magnitude of the largest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Sabanov, come in for a cue and attitude to the answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I can't help but express my satisfaction with the answer you gave me. As you are most likely aware, I had a written answer to the same question from previous ministers, which is why I asked this question. Thanks for the background answer. I think from now on it is only in the hands of Mrs. Zaharieva, who should actually form this committee, together with her Romanian colleague. Thank you very much for the answer, it was extremely comprehensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u149	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Minister, would you like to make a statement? No. We move on to the next issue, which is from the MPs Tanya Petrova and Emilia Milkova concerning the project for prevention of child crime. Here you go, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! According to information in 2018, 96 thousand crimes were committed by children in the country, in Sofia were committed at most, and in Smolyan at least. For the first reason, statistics point to thefts, after which are the crimes related to drugs and hooliganism in schools and on the street. According to the Ministry of Interior, the causes of aggression are changed moral values, social problems, lack of enough programs to engage young people, refusal of school at an early age and family problems. According to the same statistics, the most serious growth of children's crime is in the category of minors by 6% compared to 2017. Unfortunately, you can't talk about children, because the law refuses to use this terminology. Problems with children arise in the family and social environment, but the main reason should also be sought in parents. In Bulgaria, dozens of institutions deal with the behavior of children outside the norm, but they all work under the Law on anti-social events, which is from 1956. In today's democratic society, this law is not capable of solving such problems. By putting all this out there, my question is: what are the results of the final five-year project on child crime prevention, and is it envisaged that this project or similar initiatives will be available in the future?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u152	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Petrova, Mrs. Milkova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The results achieved from the implemented activities under the project "Protection of child protection and prevention of children's crime" are as follows: A specialized website has been created for children's security to prevent violence against children and to counter child crime. The dedicated site has the following objectives: - to acquaint children with their rights and obligations, with basic rules of personal safety and with patterns of behaviour in conflict situations; - provide accessible, useful and up-to-date information to specialists working with children; - to inform parents how they can raise and raise their children in a secure environment and offer them means of parental control and coordinates of the competent services to which they can turn when they need help or advice. The specific architecture of the site includes the Safe Internet and parental control app, as well as games, and news. Secondly, the National Program is updated The work of the police in the schools is developed a manual for police officers working with children. The National Program The work of the police in the schools is an essential part of the preventive work of police officers in relation to the crimes committed by and against children. The objectives set out in the Programme are: general prevention of children at school age; building models for safety behavior in adolescents; creating a positive attitude towards the police and its activities in children; and getting acquainted with students according to their age, with initial, simple legal concepts. The programme is updated with the following new topics: - crime in cyberspace; - safe conduct on the Internet; and - human trafficking. Thirdly, specialized training seminars were held at international and national level, with a total of over 300 police officers trained. The result is an increase in administrative capacity and professional skills of police officers working under police protection and child crime. Fourth, an automated information system was developed to counter child crime and child protection. The information system is used by specialized police officers to work with children and police officers in the homes for temporary housing of minors who work with juvenile offenders of crimes and anti-social acts with children victims of crime and children who have been provided with emergency measures. The system allows for optimization of work, increased control over child rights, an opportunity to compare with other European countries, as the indicators in it are in line with the requirements of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child. At fifth place, there was a public procurement and 300 computer configurations and hardware servers were delivered needed for the operation of the database, 200 multifunctional devices and 100 digital cameras. In sixth place, information materials are developed and printed to prevent students from using drugs, tobacco and alcohol, for safe conduct in public and the Internet, as well as advice for parents. The brochures are distributed to students in schools across the country. All brochures are available on the website of the Directorate General of the National Police. As regards future projects and initiatives, I provide you with the following information: The Directorate-General for National Police has developed a pre-defined project funded under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014 - 2020 on the topic of increasing police capacity and creating favourable conditions and procedures for children in conflict with the law and children in need of protection. The project aims at creating a more favourable environment for specific work with children in conflict with the law, perpetrators and victims of crime. The target group are police officers from the Directorate General of the National Police and Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the country, as partners are experts from the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria, UNICEF Bulgaria, the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, the Institute of Psychology of the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency for Child Protection and the Agency for Social Assistance. For the implementation of the objectives are provided: building three specialized centers for working with children; reconstruction and modernization of the premises for police protection of children; conducting interviews with children; organizing training; developing training programs for the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and a practical guide for interviewing in line with the needs of children, as well as sharing experience and good practices by including experts from the Norwegian Ministry of Justice and Public Security. We also foresee continuing the work on updating and development of the National Program The work of the police in the schools and the improvement and expansion of the Program "Children Police Department" which proved its effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's your cue and attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you very much for the information you provided regarding the question I asked. The actuality of the topic is also significant because of your visit to Ruse yesterday, where during your meeting with police officers and the analysis you made, you said that there is an extremely high level of child crime in Ruse. On the occasion of child crime, problems have been raised regarding the work of both employees working in children's pedagogical rooms and municipal committees to combat the anti-social manifestations of minors. In this direction, you have provided information on the need to take urgent measures and the extremely up-to-date information that you presented just now will complement all these measures, because fighting child crime is not only a task to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, but also to all educational institutions and efforts must be united in order to reduce this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Minister, do you have anything to add to your exhibition? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u156	Mr. President of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Petrova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, yesterday we held a meeting with the mayors of Ruse district and representatives of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Ruse. It does impress that there is an alarming state of child crime, for which the relevant measures were identified yesterday, after an analysis, from which it became clear that all institutions that are working on this problem have more to do and especially in the communication and distribution of tasks itself. The necessary measures will also be taken to examine the specific conditions for the specific location, as the exacerbation of the situation in a given settlement against the background of the whole country shows that there may be some problems that are related to both employees and the organisation of work. I would also like to share a positive example. On yesterday we visited the village of Balvan, Veliko Tarnovo region, where we showed what is the model for work and to attract the attention of children in socially useful activities and in activities that will make them able to cope with the complex environment in which they live. I would also like to commend the organizers and drivers of this event from the National Assembly's stand, as I saw something unique there, a model that has gathered the forces of both institutions and NGOs, as well as the business that thinks this is an important activity and gives money for training the children. I really think we should take experience from this model and apply it everywhere. This will be the best prevention of child crime, except for the information campaigns we conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u157	Thank you, Minister, for such an important addition. There are no more questions for participation in today's parliamentary control. Thank you. We move on to the questions to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first one is from the MP Galya Zhelyazkova on measures, programs and projects of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in Burgas region. Here you go, Mrs. Iron.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We are witnessing numerous efforts to increase the employment and qualification of workers, as well as the fight against unemployment. These are the main priorities of the government, and also the complex of measures that we are taking against social exclusion are also extremely important for each of us. In this regard, my question to you is: what, in particular, measures and actions, programs and projects does the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy finance and implement on the territory of Burgas district? Because it is undoubtedly very important for both the Burgas and every member of parliament who is from this region to know in close proximity and in detail exactly the policies that are being carried out in the territory of its area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Mr. Petkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, the increase in employment and qualification of the workforce, the fight against unemployment and better social inclusion are among the main priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in which it develops its measures, programmes and projects. The main sources of their funding are: the national budget, the budget of the Fund "Social Protection" and the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" co-financed by the European Social Fund, as well as the Operational Programme financed by the Fund for European Assistance to the Most Deprived for the period 2014 - 2020 which also work in the territory of the district of Bourgas. Human Resources Development Operational Program, whose managing body is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as you know, is implemented throughout the country, and a total of 106 application procedures with beneficiaries from all over the country have been announced by the end of March 2019, including from the district of Burgas. In the field of labour market, the procedures under the Operational Programme are focused mainly on inactive and unemployed persons with a vulnerable position on the labour market, with the aim of increasing their employment chances, first job for unemployed young people, new employment for unemployed persons over 54 years of age, self-employment for those who wish to create new micro or small enterprises, higher competitiveness for the skills of workers. In the field of social inclusion, the procedures are aimed at services and additional support for people in disadvantaged social situations, including people with disabilities, elderly persons in inability to serve themselves, persons caring for dependent members of their families, representatives of the marginalized communities in the country and others. Human Resources Development Operational Programme is providing funding for many initiatives through the selection of quality project proposals. Especially in the field of the labor market in Burgas were concluded up to now 38 contracts worth more than 8 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. To improve social inclusion and the fight against poverty Operational program "Human Resources Development" "Supported the efforts of 26 municipalities and NGOs in the district of Burgas" with contracts worth more than 10 million. 200,000. lv. Within the framework of projects of the Employment Agency, which is a specific beneficiary of some projects from the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" for the realization of the labour market of young people up to 29 years of age, 852 contracts with employers worth 8 million were concluded. 200,000. lv. in Burgas region. There are a total of 2347 unemployed young people under contracts. The project stimulates the activity and motivation of young people up to 29 years of age, including those who are neither in "Education" or "Training" or in "Employment" in the district of Burgas, are identified and included in the project " 588 people from six municipalities." A total of 177 contracts with employers worth 6 million were signed in Burgas for inclusion in the "Employment" of 754 unemployed, inactive people over 30 years of age. Three hundred thousand. BGN, 607 working persons have received their vouchers for participation in the "Training for professional qualification" and "Key competence." The project "Parents in employment". 337 applications in the district were submitted by parents of children up to 12 years of age to provide care for their child and 261 applications from unemployed, inactive persons to provide care as babysitters. As is known, a second admission under this scheme is now under way. I'm talking and I've released data on the first reception that's already over. Under the National Employment Action Plan for this year, 17 national programmes and projects and 27 promotional measures for employment and training are implemented through the Employment Agency throughout the country. For the district of Burgas, as of 28 February 2019, there were established funds of 2 million. Eighty-five thousand. £716. to ensure the employment of a total of 443 unemployed persons and to participate in the training of 265 persons. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] By this date, the employment of 131 unemployed persons is ensured. Of course, there are other instruments with which support is provided, including people from vulnerable groups in the region of Burgas, but I suppose in view of the past time I will be able to finish in the next inclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for understanding. Here you are for a reply, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you have the opportunity to express your attitude to the given answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer on the main directions the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is working with on the territory of Burgas region. If we can focus on both the Social Protection Fund and the Beautiful Bulgaria Project, as well as the actions of the Social Assistance Agency, which also implement numerous programmes in our area, because I think this is also useful information that needs to reach a wider range of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. Mr. Minister, we're waiting for the supplement of your response. Here you go. You have this opportunity. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I will try very briefly to present the measures, programs and projects that are implemented through the Social Protection Fund and the Project "Beautiful Bulgaria." In 2018 and 2019, funds for projects and initiatives totaling more than 400 thousand were allocated to projects and initiatives with a total value of more than 400 thousand. lv. According to the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" which you know is being implemented as part of the National Employment Action Plan in 2018 and 2019, five project proposals for total value are approved on the territory of Burgas district 570 thousand. 670 BGN, with three of them already realized in 2018. The kindergarten in the village of Ravnets, the Professional High School of Computer Programming and Innovations in Burgas and the Sports Course in the school yard of Kosharitsa village, Nessebar municipality were renovated. With the implementation of the project proposals of Burgas and Karnobat municipalities in 2019 23 unemployed people are expected to be trained. With regard to the support that people receive through the Agency for Social Assistance and the budget programmes implemented by it relating to the provision of social aid, targeted social protection for heating, integration of disabled people and so on, I will only say that in 2018 around 42 million have been paid in Burgas. Five hundred thousand. BGN, and over 48 million are planned for this year. BGN, pointing out that 33 social services for children, including from a resident type delegated by the state with a total capacity of 648 seats, operate in Burgas district. There are also 36 social services for adults in Burgas district. I will complete with the Operational Programme, the Managing Authority of which is the Social Assistance Agency................................................................................................... It helps those living to the highest degree of poverty and social exclusion with food through individual packages of food products, and at noon. In 2019, food packages have received or will receive, as the distribution continues - 10 thousand 636 persons and families from vulnerable groups in the district of Burgas and a warm lunch in the dining rooms of five municipalities receive 2520 users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. With this detailed information we conclude the topic of Burgas region. We are moving on to a matter of MP Alexander Matsurev. It is about the measures, programs and projects of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in Blagoevgrad region. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Ministers! Dear Minister, my question is about the measures, programs and projects of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in Blagoevgrad region. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy finances, manages and implements many measures, programs and projects in the field of labour and social affairs in our country. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures, programs and projects by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are implemented in the territory of Blagoevgrad district in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u167	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u168	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, in the answer to the previous question, I had the opportunity to say which are the tools by which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy implements and finances the programmes, measures and operations in question aimed at the respective target groups. In order not to repeat myself, I will go straight to the specific dimensions in Blagoevgrad region. I start with the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" for the current programming period, which is realized in the municipalities of Blagoevgrad district. As part of the project, the work carried out by the Employment Agency for the realization of the labour market of young people up to 29 years of age in Blagoevgrad region was concluded 912 contracts with employers worth 6 million. 280,000. lv. There are a total of 1627 unemployed young people under contracts. For inclusion in the employment of 1087 unemployed and inactive people over 30 years of age in Blagoevgrad region were signed a total of 355 contracts with employers worth 15 million. 400,000. lv. In accordance with the procedure "Vauchers for persons employed' within the first admission 3062 workers received their vouchers for inclusion in training for professional qualification or key competence. I would stress here that since April 1st, the second admission under this procedure has started -..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You mean going through training. The project presents 260 applications in Blagoevgrad district by parents of children up to 12 years of age to provide care for their child and 255 applications from unemployed, inactive persons have received to provide care as babysitters. 65 trilateral agreements have been concluded so far. They provide opportunities for the return of parents to work on the labour market, for which the appropriate replacement care is provided under this procedure. Since the beginning of the programming period in the territory of Blagoevgrad region, 110 individual administrative grant contracts have been implemented, amounting to more than 25 million. 400,000. BGN concluded by competitive selection of projects involving 8429 persons. These were the results of the operations and measures under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." In 2018 and 2019, projects for which funds totaled more than 159 thousand were allocated were implemented in the territory of Blagoevgrad District. BGN, with these projects implemented in the municipalities of Bansko, Hadjidimovo, Satovcha and Blagoevgrad. In 2018 under the project "Beautiful Bulgaria" within Blagoevgrad district were approved and implemented five project proposals for a total of 667 thousand. BGN 295. In the current 2019 two project proposals of Gotse Delchev municipality and Simitli municipality are to be implemented at a total value of 477 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Five hundred thousand. lv. It is about various forms of monetary support, and for 2019 it is intended for this purpose more than 50 million. lv. Here I will point out that 26 social services for children, including from a resident type delegated by the state activities, with a total capacity of 581 seats, operate in the territory of Blagoevgrad district. As of 28 February 2019 in the territory of Blagoevgrad there are 55 social services for adults, of which 49 social services in the community, including resident types, and six specialized institutions. I would like to point out that both in Burgas, which I spoke about in the previous question and in Blagoevgrad, we have a significant number of social services and a developed network of social services, which, of course, within the framework of the newly adopted Social Services Act is also to be planned and further developed. I will complete my response with what the Operational Programme, financed by the European Assistance Fund, is doing for the most deprived persons managed by the Agency for Social Assistance. Specially in Blagoevgrad under this operational programme in 2019 food packages will receive 15 937 persons and families from vulnerable groups, while a warm lunch in the dining rooms of 11 municipalities receive 1620 users daily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u169	Thank you for that answer, Mr. Minister. Mr. Matsurev, come in for a line. I see you're carefully recording the data the minister is exporting. I didn't interrupt it because the information was important. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I thank you for the answer and information we received about our region. For me, the data is quite impressive, the information is detailed. In this regard, I would like to thank you for your personal commitment and the government's commitment to all that you are doing in your ministry. I am sure that this good practice will continue until the end of the year and accordingly from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u171	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Will you take an attitude? No, thank you. Thank you for all your information and your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions for Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. He will answer a question of the MP Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova about the promotion and development of the library sector. Here you are, Mrs. Milkova, to develop the matter. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the development of the library sector and the promotion of reading. Dear Mr. Banov, one of the main priorities of the developed society is related to stimulating people to reading and hence increasing their level of education and awareness. The library is that place that has a major and leading role in promoting reading and developing reading habits and culture from earliest childhood to adulthood. Of course, a variety of materials is provided by type of materials - these are the traditional book in print and electronic format, databases and various other sources of information. In this context, the need to renew library funds is extremely important, I refer to public libraries with new books. Of course, it is nice to be a priority by Bulgarian authors, as the Bulgarian author is also supported by another segment of our cultural sector. I know about the efforts made by the Ministry of Culture, and, of course, colleagues from the public libraries to digitize library funds. This process is encouraged by everyone, as it is an option to preserve literary literary wealth, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, makes it easier for all readers and visible not only in the country, but also throughout the world. In this regard, it is also my question to you: what conditions does the Ministry of Culture create to promote the development of the library sector; is an agreement initiated between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science in the field of libraries?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Milkova, the activities related to support, promotion and development of public libraries are essential because they allow for increased education and provide access to new up-to-date information. The mission of libraries is related to key elements for the development of each society, such as literacy, information, education, culture and civic participation. Compared to previous years, modern libraries operate in a radically different information environment. The role of the global network and the impact of the strong distribution of social networks has increased. Digitalization is gaining speed, increasing the volume of digitally created documents and digitized ones. Here is the point that the network of public libraries is extremely large. At the same time, the analysis carried out shows that libraries are in many cases the only information center on the ground. Over the years, the Ministry of Culture has always sought to support the process of filling library funds with new library units, including encouraging the process of digitalisation. In 2018 the Programme was successfully implemented "Bulgarian Libraries" "Contemporary Centers for Reading and Information." The programme aimed to support the renewal of library funds with new up-to-date literature, cultural and literary periodicals and other modern information sources through which libraries would respond to the growing needs of readers. As a result of the announced competition session for a total of 1 million. lv. 442 public libraries were supported to upgrade their funds with books and other information sources. In the current 2019 budget of this programme has been doubled and is 2 million. lv. The rules for their provision of public libraries are to be updated. At the moment, the Ministry of Culture has announced an invitation to regional libraries to provide project proposals under the rules for allocating additional funds for activity. The maximum amount of requests is up to 5000 BGN. Every year funds are allocated in support of projects and activities to present the Bulgarian book and literature in Bulgaria and abroad. During the past year is supported the organization of Sofia International Book Fair, the Bulgarian Cultural Institute in Moscow organized a presentation of our country in 31 it International Moscow Book Fair. Our country has traditionally participated in the International Book Fair in Frankfurt, which is one of the largest and most prestigious book exhibitions in the world, and over the years it has managed to successfully present the Bulgarian book industry and Bulgarian culture. In this year the Ministry of Culture will again support these traditional initiatives and Bulgaria will be honored to participate again at the fairs in Frankfurt, Leipzig, Moscow and Istanbul. There are also conditions for translation of Bulgarian authors abroad, as well as for their presentation to a Bulgarian audience. During the months of June and October 2018, under the Programme "Help for the Book" for support of creative projects in the field of publishing were introduced two competition sessions and a total of 67 projects were supported. We are about to announce a contest session for 2019 under the same programme and I think we will also sign an agreement with the Ministry of Education and Science in May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Milkova, come in, you have the opportunity to reply and treat the given answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Banov, for the comprehensive answer. I would like to point out that the place of libraries in today's society is extremely important, and when we speak, we are already talking not only about information literacy, but about informational competence, skills and knowledge that can be obtained by young people in libraries. I am therefore very pleased with your clarification that in May there is an agreement to be signed between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education. This will be one step in the possibility of an even better partnership in places between regional, public libraries and schools. Furthermore, since we are in the week when the March of Books began across the country, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that this year the Ministry has managed to provide twice the amount of 2 million. lv. to upgrade the funds of the public libraries. I suppose this will be felt soon throughout the country and will be a step in a positive direction and fulfilling the priorities that the government has set in the area of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the backrest? Not about that. The next one is also from Mrs. Milkova and he is about finalizing the National Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Culture. Here you go, Mrs. Milkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related to the development of a National Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Culture, which has already been published within a month. Dear Minister, over the years the topic has been raised repeatedly for the development of a key strategic document aimed at drawing up the vision for the development of Bulgarian culture. It is important the need, it is tangible, it is visible, from formulating a long-term programme and management objectives that lead to specific policies that bring the results that we all expect. At the same time, it is important to define the efforts and resources to be allocated to the implementation of these strategic tasks. In this regard is also my question: at what stage is the National Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Culture project.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Here you are, Minister, to take this issue into consideration for the finalization of the National Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Culture. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Milkova, the development of a Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Culture is a complex and long process. It includes both an analysis of the existing environment and identifying specific objectives and priorities for achieving the final objective, which is linked to the development of a long-term policy for supporting culture as a national priority. Over the years, several attempts have been made to draw up such a strategic document. At the beginning of the mandate it was announced that the development of a Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Culture with a horizon of ten years from now will be one of our main priorities. A broad working group was established involving more than 150 representatives of various organizations and guilds in the field of culture. Various cultural actors and researchers of cultural processes took part in their proposals. Foreign practices have also been studied. Discussions were also held in the smaller working groups formed in the different areas. As a result, on the basis of and on the basis of a situational analysis, a draft strategy was developed setting out the main priorities and strategic objectives to be worked on over the next 10 years. This approach implies the development of specific strategic documents with a vision for each sector separately. The vision for the development of culture in the period 2019 is also mentioned. Priority is given to the vision for the development of new forms and policies. This is related to carrying out a continuous analysis of cultural processes and updating of the set goals. Achievement of such a state of culture requires support for strategically important initiatives such as the protection and promotion of cultural diversity, creative mobility and protection of intellectual property in the field of culture, as well as the creation of conditions for the development of cultural heritage conservation, modern forms of cultural expression, cultural and creative industries and quality education in the field of art and culture. At present, the Bulgarian Culture Development Strategy project is at a stage of public discussion. In order for this discussion to be as effective as possible, the Ministry of Culture is planning a series of public discussions on sectors aimed at clarifying the document and finalising it. The first discussion will be held on April 17, Hall 3 of the National Palace of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Milkova, come in, you have a chance to say a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u182	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Banov, honourable colleagues! I would like to express my satisfaction with the response you have given, and I think it is extremely important that the Ministry of Culture in your face has finally succeeded in creating this strategic document, which is extremely important for the development of the entire cultural sector. The fact that you are taking steps for a broad discussion is extremely valuable, as colleagues from the various guilds, from the whole spectrum of our cultural life, as well as representatives of public, state and, of course, the non-governmental sector involved in the creation of Bulgarian culture, will have the opportunity to express its opinion and opinion once again, because we are all aware that such a complex document cannot be implemented only with the efforts of one of the countries. Thank you once again and we will be delighted to be in Hall 3 of the National Palace of Culture on April 17th in order to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Mr. Minister, regardless of the advanced time, there is one more question that is too interesting and significant. I say we take a look at it. He is from the MP Radoslava Chekanska and is about improving the infrastructure of schools of arts and culture at the Ministry of Culture. Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u184	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is about improving the infrastructure of art and culture schools at the Ministry of Culture. Dear Minister, over the years 22 specialized schools of arts and culture have been built and operated. In essence, they build a unique system of specialized schools where they train some of the country's most prominent young donations. Given their specific needs, schools also have certain needs, which include maintaining and upgrading the material base, developing new curricula, creating conditions for young donations. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures have been taken by the Ministry of Culture in terms of improving the infrastructure of schools of arts and culture?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Chekanska. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Chekanska! The improvement and renewal of the material technical base of art and culture schools is among the priorities of the Ministry of Culture. It is particularly important to improve the quality of the preparation, which is related to both the physical environment and the equipment of the specialized halls and workshops in schools. In 2018 from the budget of the Ministry of Culture for capital expenditure were provided as follows: 23 thousand. lv. of the National High School of Applied Arts "St. Luka" (Sofia), for repair of a tower with a clock in the building of the school, which is a monument of culture; 323 thousand. lv. of the National School of Arts Veselin Stoyanov "Ruse," for repair and adaptation of building, rehearsal and gymnasium; 100 thousand. lv. are spent on construction of a fire-fighting installation in the National High School of Applied Arts. For arts schools is purchased computer equipment, free wireless internet and interactive boards are provided. The equipment of the workshop for professional training is provided "Sitopress workshop," specialized, wide-format printer and 3D printer in the National High School of Applied Arts "St. Luka" "Sofia; Office of Prepress Training and Informatics at the National School of Polygraphy and Photography "Sofia," and equipment of studios for all specialties in the National School of Fine Arts "Ilia Petrov" "Sofia." There were purchased lockers for the students from the primary and secondary stage in the arts schools. An accessible environment and additional security measures such as video surveillance, access systems at the entrance of schools are provided. The physical environment of the yard and the adjoining spaces in the National School of Plastic Arts and Design has been improved. At the National School of Fine Arts, Sofia; at the National School of Musical and Performing Arts Prof. Pancho Vladigerov. Funds of 83 384 thousand were provided. lv. of the National School Complex of Culture in Sofia for major repairs of the building of the school. According to the Programme "Training of staff in the field of arts and culture" are provided nearly 40 thousand. lv. for repair of heating installation in a kindergarten building in the National School of Culture Sofia; 26 117 thousand. lv. of the National Art High School "Dimitar Dobrovic" "Sliven," for the construction of a subscriber station; 20 thousand. lv. of the National School of Folklore Arts "Philip Kutev" for the emergency and rehabilitation activity of a heating installation; 1400 BGN. of the National School of Folk Arts "Wide Luka," for emergency and rehabilitation activities of a heating installation. The Interdepartmental Commission for Assistance and Recovery received 58 550 thousand. lv. for the renovation of the roof of the National High School of Tsanko Lavrenov. National Education Development Programs from the Ministry of Education and Science for providing an accessible environment have received funds for: The National Art High School "Tsanko Lavrenov" (Plovdiv); the National High School of Applied Arts (Trevna School), "Triyavna," under the Security Module in the School are received funds for the National Art School "Tsanko Lavrenov" (Tsanko Lavrenov), and "Plovdiv" (Plovdiv) and the National School of Culture Complex "Gorna Banya). According to Operational Program "Regions in growth" in 2018 is completed repair and reconstruction, complete, of the National School of Arts. In 2018 at the National Art High School of Dimitar Dobrovitch "Sliven" was opened and a gallery was started and in 2019 the building of the dormitory of the school continued. In 2019 according to Operational Program "Regions in Growth" will begin repair and complete reconstruction of the National School of Folklore Arts. In 2017 and 2018, many of the arts and culture schools incurred capital expenditure within their budgets. The Ministry of Culture encourages directors to look for additional funds to improve the environment in school buildings and dormitories through participation in projects and donations, which they largely do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a replica "The People's Representative Radoslava Chekanska." Here you go, Mrs. Chekanska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u188	Dear Minister, your mission as a cultural institution is to build personalities loaded with talent, emotion, knowledge, and provide the necessary preparation for them. It has become clear from your speech that the Ministry of Culture is taking the necessary care and support for the specialized schools of the Ministry of Culture. I, as a person who comes from the field of education, sincerely thank you for your care and support to the specialized schools of your ministry. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-05.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Chekanska. Minister, this concludes your participation in today's meeting with questions to ministers on the occasion of parliamentary control. We've run out of weekly programs. Next regular meeting Wednesday, April 10th, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
