ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Message: An updated programme for the audit work of the Court of Auditors for 2019 has been received by the Court of Auditors in the National Assembly. No 924-00-1, by the President of the Court of Auditors. The material is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. It is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the first point for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE WATER LAW. The first report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u2	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-3, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 25 January 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 30 January 2019 discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the General Policy Directorate in the field of Hydromelioration and Fisheries, and Julian Markov, Director of the Directorate of Fisheries and Aquaculture; from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture: Galin Nikolov, Executive Director. Representatives of branch organizations were also present. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Andrian Raykov, who explained that the proposals were made in relation to the demanding demands of the branch organizations in the sector. The bill proposes not to pay a fee for pollution from diffuse sources of aquaculture in facilities, including organic farming, as well as a fee for water collection from an aquaculture site and related activities. Accordingly, it is proposed to waive the obligation to install measuring devices which take into account the volume of water taken from water taken from a surface water site for aquaculture purposes and related activities when the water is returned to the original water source or to its water supply. The volume of water taken from the water will be considered as the volume indicated in the licence issued. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the bill in principle. Believes that the proposals made are justified that their adoption will allow more effective implementation of aquaculture policy and will remove a serious financial and administrative burden on small fish producers, which are about 80 per cent of the total registered ones; The Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture notes that a number of European and neighbouring countries are not paid for the use of water for aquaculture activities. Under the bill, there is an opinion of the Association "Balkanka" which objects to the adoption of the changes, because in the way they are proposed, they contradict national and European legislation. According to them, pollution charges should be differentiated depending on the level of contamination in the different types of fish production, since it is unacceptable for all producers to be exempted from their payment. They consider that the exemption of fish producers from a water collection charge and the removal of their obligation to install measuring devices would result in unlimited and uncontrolled use of water, inadequately available water resources. They remind that the waters of the rivers are public government property and their use should be paid. In addition, a range of operators will thus be placed in a privileged position vis-à-vis other users of water resources, which constitutes unlawful State aid. According to the bill, opinions were received from the Association of Industrial Capital, from the National Association for Fisheries and Aquaculture in Bulgaria, from the National Association of Fish Producers and from the National recognised organisation of producers of fishery products, which support the Law and insist on its adoption. According to the arguments presented, the proposal for dropping fees is related to the existing inequalities between fish producers with permits to use a water site under art. 46 using floating facilities in dams from which no payment of fees is required and those with water permits under art. 44 which should pay fees, although both types of permits are for the same type of activities. In addition, unlike the cultivation in floating facilities in dams, there is not only a lack of pollution in the long term, but even a positive environmental impact is observed. In this sense, it is unfair for these farms to pay a pollution charge. At the same time, the proposals do not exclude the possibility of carrying out controls by the competent authorities of possible contamination and of taking action both for its prevention and for the sanctioning of water users who have caused it, including by withdrawing the permit. The industry's motives for measuring devices that determine the volume of water taken from water are mainly linked to the lack of technical capacity for them to be installed on most fish holdings. The location of the farms and the frequent displacement of the water collection point when changing the trough and depth of the rivers depending on the climatic conditions further hinder the proper installation, operation and reporting of the devices, especially in the absence of regulations on the type and requirements thereof and on how they are installed and reported. In addition, the measured water would repeatedly exceed the volume actually used, which is equal to the volume of the pools, as the water passes through them and through the farm facilities and is returned to the water source in the same volume, having a minimal impact on the water bodies. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of.. United patriots.................... that they will support the bill and make proposals between the first and second votes of the bill. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms group agreed with the reasons of the importers and principled support for the Bill, given the need to protect fish producers. At the same time, they insisted on carefully assessing the environmental aspects of the implementation of the proposed changes. They noted that an unequal situation should not be allowed between individual fish producers depending on the production method and other users of water from water sites. They insisted on a clear financial estimate of the economic effect of the implementation of the Bill. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria................. for Bulgaria.................................................................... With regard to the pollution charge, they noted that, from a scientific point of view, fish production does not normally pollute water sources and recommended taking into account the opinion of the Agricultural Academy and other higher schools where the necessary specialists are present. They have indicated that they fully agree in the case of pollution identified by the control authorities to be sanctioned by those responsible. With regard to measuring devices, they noted that whether by permit or by recorded quantities producers always pay for the water used and it is a matter of assessment what the mechanism should be. In conclusion, after the discussion held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food with 17 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. A report from the Committee on Environment and Water is next. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-3, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 25 January 2019. At a meeting held on 7 February 2019, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, No 954-01-3, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 25 January 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Krasimir Zhivkov The bill and the reasons for its adoption were presented by the MP Andrian Raykov. The bill proposes dropping the obligation to install measuring devices which determine the volume of water taken from aquaculture water and related activities. The volume of water taken from the water will be considered as the volume indicated in the licence issued. It is proposed to remove the pollution charge from diffuse sources of aquaculture and the fee due in the case of water capture from an aquaculture site. Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov presented the position of the Ministry of Environment and Water, saying that the proposed changes in art. Article 194 194a of the Water Act are not supported with regard to the requirements of the Water Framework Directive, European and Bulgarian legislation. Its words do not provide equal legal frameworks for all economic sectors in the use of water for business purposes and equal treatment between water users as a guarantee for the creation of equal legal conditions for business. Mr. Galin Nikolov of the IRA said that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the proposed bill in general. In his words, the proposed changes aim at a more precise and effective implementation of aquaculture policies. He stated that the changes are justified and motivated and will have a favourable impact on the sector. Attitude on the submitted bill took the public representative Rumen Georgiev, according to whom the sector should be supported and the proposed changes are in this direction. According to his neighbouring countries of Bulgaria do not pay a fee and stimulate this sector. He expressed his opinion that fish producers cannot be compared with producers of electricity from hydropower plants. People's representative Atanas Kostadinov voiced support for the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water, noting that the proposal violates the Water Framework Directive and proposes to drop the basic principle. He said he would refrain from voting and expressed his opinion that by second reading the texts could be refined. In his words, he may think of easing, but not dropping the fees. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva expressed her position that the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water is based on the principles. She expressed her opinion that the Bill can be supported at first reading, but there are issues that need to be resolved and texts that need to be refined, which is also evident from the opinions received. Ms. Vasileva expressed her readiness to submit proposals between the first and second reading of the bill and proposed the establishment of an expert working group. In her words, consultations with the European Commission can be carried out, if necessary, so as to develop fair texts to resolve all issues. The Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design expressed a position that people in the industry should be supported, but not by getting rid of all fees. Representatives of the fish producers claimed that a burden on the industry is not only the water collection fee, but also the need to install measuring devices and their periodic shift. They noted that there is currently an inequality between fish producers in floating facilities in the dams and those performing proto-fish production. They did not object to the maintenance of the principle of payment in case of pollution. After the end of the discussion and the vote held the Committee on Environment and Waters with 15 votes for........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. There are no other reports. I am opening the debates on the draft in question. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! According to the importer, the proposed changes are intended to alleviate and assist the sector. That's going to be two ways. The first is by removing what has been laid down so far in the Water Act the obligation to install measuring devices determining the volume of water taken and diverted from surface water objects. With this text we have a serious contradiction and a prerequisite for inequality of other users of water resources and services in the country, which are obliged to install appliances and measure the water quantities they use. The second way we remove the fees and water collections required for pollution for the fisheries and aquaculture sector. Indeed, there is a difference in the level of pollution in the production of aquaculture in long-term fisheries and in the dam cages, but I will tell you in a moment. By removing the obligation to install measuring devices, the door is wide open for absolutely uncontrolled and unlimited use of water resources, and according to the importer's reasons, the aim is to increase aquaculture production, which will lead to even greater and uncontrolled use of water. How this uncontrolled and uncontrolled use of water complies with the Framework Directive of the European Union waters, which contains the following text: para. 11. According to art. 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Community's environmental policy must contribute to the objectives of protecting, protecting and improving the environment through the careful and rational use of natural resources, and should be based on the principle of safeguard and preventive measures, the principle of prioritising environmental damage at source, and the principle of Where in the importer's proposals do we find the careful and rational use of water and water when water quantities will not be measured and paid? Where is the incentive for rational use of the amounts of water? This will also lead to the creation of numerous swimming pools and aquaculture troughs along rivers that will not comply with the conditions for the survival of river and river ecosystems. I will also say about a problem with the use of water to produce aquaculture. The Commission has said that there is no need for measuring devices because water returns to surface objects as soon as it passes through the anglerry. Only oxygen is used. I gotta tell you, it's the same with the power plants. And with them the water passes and goes back to the objects, and there is only energy used there. At hydropower, the water is paid, and here we want to remove this. This is also an inequality. A few words about the principle....... pays................................................................................. I said that there is a difference in the levels of pollution in the various sectors of the fisheries sector, but dropping the fee at all, I do not consider a solution. Perhaps the problem should be solved with the tariff on water collection fees, for use, not in the Law. The amount of the aid shall be calculated on the basis of the total amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 1 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. I remind you that the proposed amendments violate several legal acts: art. 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; on 20th floor, I will not read it all to you at the moment. Second, in the Water Framework Directive, which I read to you just now, and in the Water Act, art. 2, para. 1, t. 10, which states:..... pays the costs of the measures to prevent, limit and reduce pollution and to restore damage............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With the proposed amendment, you want to release certain producers from the obligation to pay and, at the same time, to increase their production, which leads to even more pollution. Colleagues, fish production in our country is indeed in an extremely difficult state, neither competitive nor high levels of absorption of euro funds. On the contrary, it is at one of the lowest levels. There must be a level playing field in the industry. The Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency must deal with the huge levels of poaching, which also affects the low price of fishery products. We will abstain from the proposals made and I hope between first and second reading they will be in line with the real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the Bill amending the Water Act proposed by colleagues, as it became clear, deals with issues related to fish breeding and farming and related activities, an important issue, a sector that poses its problems to the Members of the National Assembly. The problems encountered by the sector are, on the one hand, related to the technical difficulties that it has when installing the necessary devices to measure the amount of water used. On the other hand, they are related to the charge applicable within the meaning of the Water Act. In the Committee on Environment and Water, as has become clear from the Report, we have had a thorough and extensive discussion of these issues. We have heard the opinion and opinion of both the responsible departments and representatives of the sector. What is formulated as a position is support for the Bill at first reading from the point of view that yes, there is clearly a need for precision and clear regulation in the sector so as not to obtain a different approach to the different types of producers, those who raise fish in closed water sites, respectively those who deal with direct fish production. On the other hand, we cannot fail to listen to the reasonable arguments put forward in the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Waters, which we support and relate to the fundamental principles laid down in the Water Framework Directive and in the Water Act, which predates, on the one hand, the application of the principles of the In this sense, my proposal is to support at first reading the Bill in order to enable more detailed investigation and analysis of the case, and to find the most precise and reasonable texts which, on the one hand, guarantee support for the sector, on the other hand, to ensure that the principles of not being placed in a privileged position for one sector are also applied. In this sense, we will also propose the alternative texts proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Water in their opinion. I hope that the expert working group, which will be established between first and second readings, will analyse the situation in the industry, find, once again I say, the most sensible solution and, if necessary, to conduct consultations with our European partners, will also explore the experience of other countries. In this sense, I also have a commitment to put in texts between first and second readings so that the work can continue and bring this piece of legislation to the finish, once again I say, with the best solution being found. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed bill is a nice, useful bill for our fish production, for aquaculture producers, but, unfortunately, with that, the good things in this bill end. It's good to support the sector. The sector is in a difficult position. Our fish producers are in an uneven position against neighbouring countries, towards Europe.. Imports of fish and fishery products, the sector is uncompetitive, it is in a difficult situation, it is with high cost and last but not least In general, it is a good idea, but I have a few remarks to the importers asking them between first and second reading to take these remarks into account, to take into account the comments of the Committee on Environment and Water, of industry organisations, so that it becomes a good text that is really useful for our producers, but at the same time to comply with the European Commission's Water Directive. Colleagues, my first remark is the way I import it. The bill has been tabled by a group of MPs, which is why it raises several questions that have not been answered so far. Firstly, why have a group of fish producers come into contact with colleagues and have proposed such a text and, secondly, why are we not going on the path of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency, the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Assembly? If they had gone that way, there would have been a conciliation procedure, and many of the questions that are in the Chamber today would have been answered. My next remark on the proposed bill is the introduction of inequality between individuals, water users both between those producing fish and those using water for other purposes. Those who produce fish produce it in three ways: in long-term fishermen who use water and return it to the river again; cages that are in the ponds, and those that fish the entire pond. You yourselves understand that giving an advantage to a group of these fish producers puts fish producers themselves in an unequal position, which grow fish differently. This automatically leads to market distortions, to the non-competitiveness of the other fish producers and thus to put unregulated State aid to a separate group of fish producers. I'm not gonna dwell on water pollution. This question I will leave to my fellow ecologists as I do not feel competent. There are a number of studies that have been done in the country, the results of which are contradictory. Some say: fish do not pollute water, even purify it, but it is a question that must also be clarified. It's dropping the fee. It's taking over. Colleagues, the water is public government property. I don't know how the fee will be dropped on the condition that everything that is public property and which it uses somehow pays. The installation of water-installed equipment is out of the question. Would this not result in uncontrolled and unlimited use of the water resource and how will the limits given in the water use permit be determined? These are also questions that should be answered in further proposals between first and second readings. Last but not least, my remark on the financial statement, which the importers say is that if this is accepted, the state will deprive itself of some 250 thousand. BGN, which have been collected so far in these fees. I do not know how correct this figure is, but the figure of how many registered fish production sites there are in Bulgaria according to data from the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency (IARA) is 3700 pieces. Three thousand seven hundred registered objects if they paid 250 thousand. BGN, if this figure is correct, colleagues, we are talking about an average of 67 BGN. an object which, if it is BGN 67, is not worth the exercise. If half of them thus produce fish, the figure will be 130 BGN. to an object. I think it's not worth the exercise either, if we're talking about BGN 130. to an object. I can't agree with this number because I have personal acquaintances who say they pay in the order of 100,000. lv. only one of them. I ask the importers until the second reading to specify the figure with the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, is the financial statement or is it not so, because it seems to me that the estimates are not accurate. Colleagues, this law has changed four times in 2018. For 2018 only! To conclude, I would like to make a suggestion to the importers: is it not better once again, rather than changing the Fifth Time Law, to change the tariff for water use fees, where, by changing the number expressions of water use and pollution, to introduce the justice we so desire in paying individual entities using water in one way or another? Colleagues, importers, please bear in mind these remarks, the comments of the individual committees so that between first and second reading all these remarks are cleared and some texts are inserted that are working enough so that we can really resolve the issue of the difficult situation of our fish producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? There are no requests for lines. Come in for a statement, Mr. Rykoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed bill for amendment and supplement of the Water Act amends two main guidelines. One change relates to the dropping of the obligation to install measuring devices which determine the volume of water taken from aquaculture water and related activities. For most farms in operation, there are no conditions and technical possibility to install measuring devices to determine the volume of water taken from water as required by the existing Water Act. The areas in which the installation of such devices is possible are often outside the territory of the holdings, respectively the protection and access to them are very difficult and often impossible. There is an opportunity for unauthorised use of water by third parties between the points of water capture and water use, resulting in financial losses for the water heater. On the other hand, the topographical location of low-plane farms, near rivers or high-mountain terrains, the frequent displacement of the point of water absorption from rivers due to changes in trough and depth after flooding or other natural disasters, hinder the proper installation, operation and reporting of measuring devices. In addition, in floods and other natural disasters, water flows through fish holdings which is technologically unwanted and cannot be stopped or diverted from the sewer network and continues to be measured and reported by the devices as being used. It should be borne in mind that some of the pool farms in flood periods are used as water collection tanks to protect against the harmful effects of water, but also in these cases the water collected will be measured and reported by the measuring devices as used and will be subject to payment accordingly. It should be borne in mind that, in the conditions of flow through the pools, water taken from the water source is returned within hours or days, which means that the actual volume of water used is at any time equal to the capacity of the pools, and possibly the water measured would be in times more, regardless of its recovery. On the other hand, a large proportion of fish farms use the multi-watering during the spring season to fill the pools and release back into the water source to catch fish during the autumn underage period, thereby effectively helping balance the river drain during the seasons. Notwithstanding the requirement introduced by the Water Act to install measuring devices, there is no uniform regulation on the type and requirements thereof and on how they are installed and reported. The installation of measuring devices by small fish producers constitutes a serious financial and administrative burden for them and is among the main reasons for their cessation. According to data from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, small fish producers are about 80% of those registered, i.e. the percentage of those affected is very high. The inability of small producers to apply the provisions of the Water Act on measuring devices creates prerequisites for reducing interest in aquaculture production and related activities, as well as to reducing investment in them. This, in turn, leads to a failure of the measures and indicators adopted by the Council of Ministers in the National Multiannual Strategic Plan for the Development of aquaculture 2014-2020, as well as of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme 2014-2020 in respect of investments in aquaculture. The other main change in the project is the removal of the pollution charge from diffuse sources for aquaculture in facilities and the fee due in the case of water capture from an aquaculture site. The current provision of art. 194, para. 11, p. 4 shall be interpreted by the pool directorates as grounds for exemption from fees to producers who have permits issued only in accordance with art. 46, i.e. producers using floating aquaculture facilities. At the same time, although they carry out the same activities, persons who have issued permits under art. 44 are not exempt from the payment of a fee. Thus, the existing provisions of the Water Act in the part of aquaculture and the related activities create inequalities between entities operating in the sector and place part of aquaculture producers in a more favourable competitive environment. The proposed amendment in art. 194, para. 11, p. 4 aims to eliminate the existing contradiction and to ensure that the legal norm is consistent with one of the basic principles laid down in art. 8, para. 2 of the Water Act for the creation of equal legal conditions for the business of all citizens and legal entities. According to the IRA statistics, the production of fish in the Republic of Bulgaria is significantly reduced and the number of non-working farms is increased and one of the main reasons is the increased administrative and financial burden for producers, which leads to an increase in the product produced and its non-competitiveness. On the other hand, the current negative trend of reducing the production of aquaculture fish generally increases pressure on populations, including poaching, which has a negative impact on biodiversity. Aquaculture can be considered an environmental activity. One part of the farms grows biologically endangered species, some of which are migrated back into nature, which will negatively affect biodiversity and the population of the species when their activity is stopped. To conclude, I believe that the proposed legislative changes will benefit the production of aquaculture fish and related activities, and will increase the consumption of fresh fish produced in Bulgaria, which will benefit the health status of the population. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. Are there any lines? There are no requests for lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, we had a serious discussion in the Commission yesterday, but before that, I would like to say a few more general considerations. Personally, I approach conservatively, and I do not think that with what the legislator intended to discuss at first reading, we will reach a consensus on second if there are now principled differences between us. What do I mean? As we spoke yesterday, it is wonderful that this dignity of democracy, even if people from a parliamentary group have different opinions. This helps very much with legislation, lawmaking and good laws. But does it help to want to create competitive advantages when we take away regulations, that is, to develop something without developing as regulation in the public interest? Absolutely not! Does it help us that a community of producers or users are now saying 12 years later after 2007: well, we are in the way of the Framework Directive. We are in the way of European legislation? How will we react when it turns out that with 3750 permits issued for water use, half if they are active and active, it turns out that a fish producer pays less than one Bulgarian family or about 150 BGN. on an average cost of water use? It is clear how we should react. I would like to tell you quite formally that for the first time I am seeing it through legislative changes, I also said it in the Commission, to ask for a violation of European legislation and the two proposals tabled by my colleagues violate the Water Framework Directive, violate at least three principles: the principles of justice, the principle of............................. and the principle of equality of economic entities. It is not possible to request the cancellation of the measurement control and it is not possible to request the cancellation of the pollution charge. Moreover, for years we have been waiting for colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to make this single pollution charge according to certain criteria to be introduced. There's no charge! Moreover, now a cancellation is required for a particular sector. I can read to you very briefly, so that I can be more reliable, not only art. 164 of the Directive, but also the provision of art. 9: The Member States shall comply with the principle of reimbursement of water service costs, including resource costs and environmental costs, taking into account the economic analysis carried out under Annex 3 and especially in accordance with the If you get acquainted with the attached opinions to this bill, you will see extremely cute and sweet things. A claim by a group of business organizations: since we have paid a water license, it means that the water is ours and once we return it to the original water tank, who will pay us for this water? Second reasoning: since we have paid water use and now we are the owners of this water, can we sell it to third parties? Colleagues, it's 2019. I don't know what experts and what capacities they write these things?! Water is public government property, and the Water Framework Directive regulates what the polluter does, who uses what and what state it is in. To conclude, I want to tell you this: keep in mind that the state of the water bodies in Bulgaria is in a state which we cannot say is good. The lack of water resources and the lack of limitation of water resources will very soon cause us large drinking facilities that are for energy, irrigation or, if you will, for fish farming purposes to start lighting them up and adapting them to those for drinking significance. This expects not only Bulgaria, this is what Europe expects, this is what the world expects. It is unthinkable to violate the principles of the directive. If we can unite around some texts, I support the texts of colleagues from the Ministry of Environment and Water. Personally, I will refrain from voting, and I hope at a second reading all of what we have talked about, to be reasonable, to be sustainable and to help fish producers, but not outside European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to clarify something so we don't let the audience down. In front of me is the Agricultural Report for 2017 "2018." On page 204 "Manufacture of fish and other aquatic organisms" it is written that according to the data of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, the total number of active fish farms at the end of 2016 is 683 pieces. Of these 650 are for freshwater aquaculture and 33 for marine aquaculture are probably registered at 3,800, but these are the active ones. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Kostadinov, that was a line to your speech. Here you go, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u18	Thank you. The colleague is right that there are different data, different sources and different statistics. My talk is about something else. Statistics will not give us the right conclusions, but respect for principles. Yes, sustainable development and support for a certain economic interest may be available if environmental and social imperatives are respected. So even if it isn't 680, only 200 and 300 are, we can't go beyond European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u19	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The basic principle laid down in the Water Framework Directive is that the polluter pays, and the fee should be determined according to the damage to the water and not the amount of water used, as reflected in the Bulgarian legislation. There are numerous data, including scientific data, that fish and their breeding and cultivation should not be perceived as pollutants, but rather the opposite as natural, accurate and permanent indicators of the quality of water purity in the pond they inhabit. The breeding and farming of fish, other aquatic organisms and aquaculture is an ecological activity for the production of fish and fishery products. Any contamination of water, which is a natural habitat for fish life, has a proportionate negative impact on the yield and quality of the fish produced. Annex VIII lists the main substances to be measured to determine water quality in the list of contaminated by the Water Framework Directive. The main substances obtained as a result of the aquatic activity are phosphates and nitrogen. The same are listed in 11 locations out of 12 places in the Annex. The main objective of the Water Framework Directive is to protect and improve the quality of water to the level of good, according to the accepted classification system. In the event that this level has not been achieved, aquaculture cannot be claimed to be the cause of this. Although in Bulgaria the Directive has been transposed with further aggravation, the state of water bodies and objects used for aquaculture in Bulgaria meets the requirements for achieving the objectives of the Water Framework Directive and so far there has been no deterioration of the water status of the aquatic activity. On the contrary, the study of the FISHFARMING project of the Basin Directorate of the East-White Sea Region, which seeks the establishment of the Aquacultural Contamination Mechanism, found a minimal impact of water bodies from such activities. It has also found that in aquatic sites where fish farming is carried out, the ecological potential and the chemical state of the water are better. In addition, recital 13 of the preamble to the Water Framework Directive explicitly states that Member States draw up and adopt programmes of measures in accordance with regional and local conditions for improving water status. The proposed amendments shall in no way preclude the exercise of control by the control authorities and shall not waive the obligation in the event of established contamination of offenders to impose the relevant penalties. On the contrary, the control authorities shall have sufficient mechanisms to influence offenders by withdrawing or suspending the authorisation issued under the Water Act or by refusing to issue one. Aquaculture itself cannot be defined as a pollutant. Therefore, the envisaged changes aim at water users who have done the pollution to pay for the damage and not all users to pay this fee, including where such a pollutant is missing. More than that. The payment of pollution should be proportionate to the degree of pollution found. In this way, by punishing the individual offender, another main objective of the Water Framework Directive is also achieved. This would lead to improved water quality to a much greater extent than to pay a pollution charge that some would interpret as a right to pollution. There is another aspect to the matter. Aquaculture is a key factor in satisfying fish demand. Almost half of world fish consumption already comes from aquaculture, not from fishing, which has long been the leading source of fishery products. Aquaculture is a sector that produces almost 1.5 million in total. Ton of production. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the sector provides jobs that for the European Union are more than 65 000 people, and in Bulgaria the employed are about 5000 people. In this sense, it is extremely important both in coastal and rural areas. The proposals for amendments to the Water Act will contribute to the sustainable development of the sector "Aquacultures" and will benefit about 80% of the small fish producers registered in the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. According to the latest data of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, the production of fish in Bulgaria is significantly reduced by increasing the number of inactive fish farms. One of the main reasons is the increased financial and administrative burden for producers, which results in an appreciation of the product produced and its uncompetitiveness. Another important point is that the proposed amendments will create the same conditions for people who perform aquaculture activities. According to the current Order of Art. 194, para. 11, p. 4 a fee for the right to use water shall not be paid in the case of use of an aquaculture establishment and related activities. This provision is interpreted by the pool directorates as a basis for exemption from the fee of producers with permits for use of a water establishment, issued only in accordance with art. 46, i.e. producers using floating aquaculture facilities. This creates inequality between fish producers with permission under art. 46 using floating facilities in dams from which no payment of fees is required and those with water permits under art. 44 which should pay fees, although both types of permits are for the same type of activities. In this way, the provisions of the Water Act in the part of the Aquacultures and related activities are treated differently by entities operating in the sector and place some of the producers of aquaculture in a more favourable competitive environment. The proposed amendment in art. 194, para. 11, p. 4 aims to eliminate the existing contradiction and to ensure that the legal norm is consistent with one of the basic principles laid down in art. 8, para. 2 of the Water Act, establishing equal legal conditions for the business of all citizens and legal entities. In the European Union there are practices of non-payment of the water used for aquaculture purposes by Member States, as well as neighbouring countries of Bulgaria, not members of the Union, but exporting fish and fishery products on the Bulgarian market. Finally, I would like to say that according to data from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture in a number of European countries, such as Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Malta, Poland, Romania, Greece and Turkey, no fees are required for the use of water for aquaculture activities. Therefore, fellow Members, please support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dimova, there have been quite similar arguments in the Commission... don't touch the water of the fish because it is a natural living environment for them. If air is a natural living environment for humans, does that mean we don't have to take care of its quality? I don't know what the Agency's data is saying, but I think it's from the 19th century that fish improves water quality. This statement in environmental science is for the period XIX " XX century. Globally, global aquaculture and fishery production exerts extremely serious pressure on the biota and overall environmental complex. In order to complete my reply, I will read you part of a working document of the European Commission: The intensive and semi-intensive fish farms of a pool type are by no means environmentally friendly, do not reduce poaching pressure on river populations, can negatively affect water quality due to the intensive diet regime and secondary accumulation of organics and biogenes in pools, partially dewatering river sections. The arguments that fish improve water belong to another period of mankind's development, and the current situation is radically different. I support the views of colleagues Bjurhan Abase, of Georgi Stoilov. I refrain from voting in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mrs. Dimova, will you use your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u24	Dear Mr. Kostadinov, dear colleagues! The proposed changes to this bill do not cancel our care for cleanliness and for the reason.................................................................................................. What I would like to stress is that my speech is also based on a scientific report. I was quoting a study on the FISHFARMING project of the Basin Directorate of the Eastern White Sea Region, which aims at this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Valkov. Mr. Valkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech is in the direction of the debate that has developed in the Chamber, and also in the committees where the bill was addressed. I think it's speculating on some things. First of all, with the fact that it won't be paid for the use of water. In any case, a water-use permit has been issued at this time and the water can be used according to this permit. There is no need to have such a device to throw water, which is placed in many cases in very difficult places and which records significantly higher quantities of water that are used by fish producers and fish resources. So there is no question of giving this water free. It's speculated on what's called pollution because there's a lot of statistics. On the one hand, the colleague quoted the report, which is for the Mediterranean Basin, and the colleague also quoted data from the European Commission, but I do not know of any such report or violation of any of those companies producing fish. At least not registered at this time. It is wrong for me to pay a pollution charge when no pollution charge has been found. We are not opposed to the principle of paying for the one who pollutes. This is right and we also stand for it, but everyone to pay a fee without any pollution being carried out.. We believe that this is not right. However, the main reason for the introduction of this bill with fellow Members is the introduction, firstly, of inequality between the producers of fish and aquaculture themselves, those issued in one row, which is related to watering facilities or lakes and dams and those on the rivers. One can't pay one fee and one can't pay the other. This puts the sector itself in uncompetitive shape. By the same logic, I will say about the industry itself, as a number of countries in the European Union, which also have to bring their legislation with European, have found a way and their fish and aquaculture producers do not pay such fees! It's about the Czech Republic, Croatia, Turkey... Turkey, let's say, is not a member of the European Union, but for Greece, Romania, Poland, Latvian republics... Many of these fish producers are already on our market and they occupy part of it. So I think that we, as MPs, should think in this direction about how we can protect our industry. I therefore call on you to vote for the Bill, as you have done most of the MPs on both committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. - What's the line? There are no MPs wishing for a line. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making this statement in confirmation of the words said by colleague Ivelina Vassileva that a working group will be made between first and second readings in order to refine the texts. However, the general principle and philosophy laid down in this bill is to be supported, namely to make the individual fish producers of aquaculture equal in different ways on the market. That is exactly what the proposed text is doing right now! It does not put any of the aquaculture producers in a privileged position, on the contrary, on the contrary. And the fee is still paid. He doesn't change. It is changed by only one of the proposed texts to pay a pollution charge, as a kind of right to pollution of long-term farms, regardless of whether they have contaminated or not. This is precisely the inequality with other aquaculture producers. That's exactly what the bill does. I would like to give you an example that in just the last six months they have closed about six farms named in Southwestern Bulgaria. During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, examples were given, you can get acquainted with the transcript of the meeting. I thank my colleagues in the Agricultural Commission, there we all unanimously supported the Law. In no way is it contrary to the Water Framework Directive. That's what experts said. As you can see, legislation in the other eight Member States of the European Union is similar. I do not know why we believe in Bulgaria that everything should be done most difficult in order to prevent maximum business operators. On the contrary, we need to prove how, with measures taken that give a good environment for work, in Bulgaria, we are fulfilling everything under European law. Of course, if that's true. So I want to assure everyone: the rule..... pays............... pays........................... is paid......................................... If there is no measuring instrument, as proposed, where there is no possibility to put one, it shall be paid by the volume of production, i.e. the largest possible, the most optimal. So I don't think anyone would mind. I appeal to that... Yes, there are closed aquaculture farms, it is a livelihood in certain regions. In relation to everything that has been said here, I call on my fellow Members to support the draft, the working group between the two readings will clear the texts, but the direction of us as legislators must be one in the scope, and proving that we are fulfilling our European commitments, making an environment normal for work and generating income for workers and the state. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs to vote. I am closing the debates on the draft amendment and supplement to the Water Act in question. Dear MPs, we are going to vote on the bill for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, No 954-01-3, submitted by Ivan Valkov, Desislava Taneva, Andrian Raykov and Stanislava Stoyanova on 25 January 2019. They voted 127 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 37. The proposal is adopted, and with this and at first examination the bill for amendment and supplement of the Water Act, No 954-01-3, submitted by Ivan Valkov, Desislava Taneva, Andrian Raykov and Stanislava Stoyanova on 25 January 2019. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, from 10.30 am in the Club of the National Assembly an exhibition will be opened on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly and the adoption of the first Bulgarian Constitution. The originals of the Tarnovo Constitution, the Silver Constitution and personal belongings of Petko Slaveykov are exposed. After that will be validated and jubilee mail block with brand, first-day envelope and stamp dedicated to the anniversary. I inform you that on February 10th, Sunday the date on which the Constitutional Assembly was opened, we are organizing an open door day of parliament, so that all citizens can see the exhibition. And now, all MPs are invited to attend the opening of today's event. At 11:00 we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u30	Dear Members of Parliament, we begin with PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Communication on the new questions for the period from 1 February 2019: - from the National Representative Milena Damyanova to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, on the evaluation of students in school education. The reply should be made in writing by 20 February 2019; - from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, on the policies that will be followed to develop and improve the medical expertise in Bulgaria. Response should be made in plenary on 15 February 2019; - from the MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Dimitar Danchev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, on the policy of the Ministry of Finance for ensuring stability in the relations of registration, reporting and software management of the deliveries and sales. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 15 February 2019. Written responses were received from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova of four questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on five questions from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Boris Borisov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Donka Simeonova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Manol Genov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Ivan Chenchev and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Spas Panchev. We begin with the questions to the Deputy Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. The first question is from the MP Christian Vigenin on the implementation of the Priority Programme from Sofia, adopted at the EU summit for the Western Balkans. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The integration of the Western Balkan countries into the European Union was one of the key priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. During the Western Balkans Summit, a development programme was adopted, including for the connectivity of the region, which is actually one of the few more concrete things that have emerged from this meeting outside the wishes for integration of these countries into the European Union. However, those measures should be monitored and implemented. In this regard, almost a year later, I would like to ask you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs: at what stage is the implementation of the commitments made by the European leaders and prime ministers of the countries of the Western Balkans in the so-called priority programme of Sofia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u33	Dear Vice-President, dear Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the foreign policy objectives of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was the subject of the Western Balkans. In the opinion of all analysts, this will be the topic with which the Bulgarian Presidency will remain in history and will be remembered. In this sense, putting this topic on the table, the Bulgarian Presidency was called even the Balkan Presidency. At the summit of the European Union and the Western Balkans after a really serious preparation and diplomatic efforts towards the Sofia declaration an annex to it was also the so-called "Sofia agenda." He outlined priority areas and pointed out, of course, the Commission with which this agenda was drawn up, namely the Sofia agenda. It has given specific priority areas of cooperation, the Commission has announced funding here on this agenda. In fulfillment of the Sofia agenda regarding one of these topics, as you mentioned, is connectivity. In terms of rail and port infrastructure, the European Commission allocated an additional 190 million. Euros. The funds are intended for the implementation of 11 new projects. They will modernise more than 300 km of railway lines, which will make faster and safer connections, including between the capitals of the region. Their implementation will allow the distance by train between Sofia and Belgrade in just a few years to be passed in less than two hours, while between Sarajevo and Zagreb and Pristina and Skopje in less than one hour. Among these projects are the so-called "synthetic highway" along the Adriatic and Ionian coast, on the highway of peace between Nish and Pristina. A total of 400 km of road infrastructure is planned to be built or renovated. In this respect, the priorities for the Bulgarian state are Corridor 8, which will connect Black to the Adriatic Sea. A strategy for the development of the railway network in the region will be adopted by the end of the year. In parallel, the possibilities for modernisation or opening of new border crossing points between the countries of the Western Balkans and between them and neighbouring Member States shall be explored. As an example, I will mention the agreement reached between the prime ministers of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia to extend the border crossing Stanke Lysichkovo. The work continues to increase energy connectivity and one of the other priorities of the Sofia Declaration, especially by creating a sustainable and competitive energy market. Progress has also been made on the Western Balkans Energy Efficiency Package, for which 30 million are envisaged at this stage. EUR from the budget of the European Commission. In connection with the implementation of the Third Energy Package of the European Union in April 2018, a Memorandum of Connecting the Electricity Markets of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia was signed. A similar initiative is being developed between Italy, Albania and Montenegro. In fulfilling the priorities set by the Sofia Programme, the Bulgarian State took the necessary steps to improve energy connectivity, signing a joint declaration on the construction of gas interconnector Bulgaria "Serbia." In addition to cooperation on the Sofia agenda between the European Union and the Western Balkans, this is the so-called Digital Agenda, 30 million have been allocated. EUR under the Western Balkans Investment Fund to provide technical assistance to build broadband infrastructure. Another success in the implementation of the priority programme was the joint action plan for combating terrorism in the Western Balkans signed in Tirana on 5 October 2018. The plan outlines a framework for countering terrorism and concrete actions to achieve some of the objectives outlined "preventions and countering radicalisation," an effective moment for exchange of information and so on. Another element is good neighbourly relations.. a key element for stability and security in the region. In this regard, during the meeting in London in the framework of the Berlin process, a number of declarations were signed, providing for and referring to the Sofia agenda, more active work to solve the open bilateral issues in the Western Balkans. A very important part of the Sofia agenda were young people, education and mobility. It is very important that the Erasmus+ Programme provides for double funding by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u35	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. It is also not unexpected, since in those months that have passed since the Sofia meeting, there is not much to achieve. However, I am asking this question because I would like to draw attention to the fact that the commitments that are being made must be made in order to be solid. We cannot, as a country presiding over the Council, achieve something that I really agree with, Bulgaria has been remembered. But we will only achieve our goals if all these commitments, especially the specific ones in this declaration, are realized. I am pleased that at this stage guarantees are granted, agreements are signed, but we seem to be far from the stage where we can show concrete results of all this. My supplementary question is: is there any specific coordination mechanism or structure here in Bulgaria to monitor the implementation of these commitments, which will be in contact both here, within the framework of interdepartmental coordination, as well as with regard to the partners in the Western Balkans and with the European partners. I would remind you that the realization of these priorities, these projects, should be part of our Balkan policy, and an essential part to look at, I say again, solidly, both in the eyes of our partners here and in terms of our burden within the European Union as a country that pursues the commitments made by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u37	It's not exactly a dud, because with everything Mr. Vigenin said, I agree. It is very important that the commitments made on behalf of 28 countries on the Sofia agenda are implemented, monitored and not slowed down the pace of their implementation. It is indeed good that there is a grant for these projects. What we really strive for when there is a need is to support the absorption of funds. In other words, Commissioner Hahn has repeatedly called on our friends from the Western Balkans, the money is available, it has been redocumented, but please have a more serious project readiness. Either way, the programming period is coming to an end and 2020 is approaching and knocking on the door. There are allocations, including project preparation. You know that a large railway or highway project is complex, expensive for designing, so you really monitor them. The previous projects are in different readiness, of course, depending on the countries. But anyway, it is and continues to be our top priority. We are following through all the representatives who have all the ministries in the Commission and in Brussels and through the main focus of each of the ministries in Bulgaria regarding these priority and important projects. Whether there is some separate coordination mechanism on the Sofia agenda, explicitly created by the people who are in Brussels and, respectively, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the European Directorate, who monitor each of these projects, there is none. However, I am not convinced that it is necessary because the topics are from the Digital Agenda to the Terrorism, to the Young People and Education, because this is the main focus of the Bulgarian government, so through the coordination it has, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs monitors the implementation and implementation of these projects. Believe me, one of the topics in the discussion, for example, of the next budget that we very much care about, except, of course, the preservation of cohesion policy, is also sufficient means of expanding for the Western Balkan countries to be able to implement this really long-term agenda. Because no one, as you said, expects and it is not possible for all of this to happen within a year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. The next question is also asked by the MP Christian Vigenin and it is about the management of the Bulgarian state's real estate abroad. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs! The management of the properties of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad is one of the issues around which there is little publicity and therefore often raises suspicions of ineffective use and sale of low prices without sufficient analysis of the long-term interests of the country. For years, the main objective has been to complement the deficits in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and possibly raise capital expenditure funds, which are usually lacking in the budget of the Ministry or are extremely limited. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what properties and to what value have they been sold since the beginning of your term? Which properties and at what indicative value are planned for sale this year? What is the total amount that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs receives annually from renting out its real estate abroad? Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs perhaps the most important question a concept of effective management of its properties abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u41	Madam Vice-President, Mr Vigenin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Certainly Mr Vigenin as former Minister of Foreign Affairs, I think he is familiar with the fact that Bulgaria really has a small building fund abroad. Unfortunately, for many years, he hasn't been well-managed. I was surprised to find out that the Ministry didn't even have an electronic program to monitor and manage the properties. There is one already, but there wasn't! With regard to management and management, of course, it is quite often a legal analysis with previous ministers. We have done again and this analysis should be related to the medium-term and long-term plan of the Ministry and the Bulgarian state as a whole, not only to the Ministry, for the development of international relations and for where there is focus and where there is intention in the medium-term or long-term to reveal the representations. It is no secret that over the years a number of Bulgarian representations abroad have been closed and some of them have been reduced. This led to the fact that a number of properties were not managed. You understand that where we do not have any representation abroad, it is very difficult to protect and manage a property. I do not accept that they are sold at low prices, because all the properties that were sold at all are one for last year to respond specifically to your question, in The Hague and it was carried out after an assessment of experts in the country concerned and after sale during, so to speak, agencies......................................................................................... The Hague is about a property, an almost abandoned building, a former commercial and economic office, the former TEC, for the amount of 1 million. 165,000. 165 euros. Since 2010, this property has been unused, its condition has deteriorated over the years, calculated costs, different fees, insurance. On top of that, we do not stand well when Bulgaria has empty properties that are neither managed nor managed. An in-depth analysis has been carried out with the opinions of absolutely all political directorates, including where we have representations, and with opinions from the ambassadors. Of course, we have plans for sale for this year, several properties are Argentina, Belgium, Greece, Canada, Colombia, Nicaragua, USA, Uruguay and Finland. The factors are a devoid of necessity, closed-off inter-theme representation. Some of these buildings, by the way, are former TECs or general consulates, generate large costs and I would say represent Bulgaria in an unfavorable light when the property is really in a bad condition. I cannot quote to what value analysis is yet to be carried out, but it will always be at the highest price and only through the most reputable local agencies dealing with such properties. As regards the costs for 2018 for properties rented out, there are 6 million. Thirty-nine thousand. lv. However, the aim is to preserve the state property of the state outside the borders and effectively manage those properties that we have, not to let them fall and pay fines for this in some countries. Optimization of the building fund so as to respond sufficiently to Bulgarian diplomacy. We have situations where we have properties that have been deserted for 20 years, and in other countries, for example, we still pay rent, and it's not small where we have embassies, and we haven't had a building fund. So the goal is effective governance, the release of those who are either huge and will never be used in order to be able where we do not have one to free the Bulgarian state from rent for representative properties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u42	Thank you. Mr. Vigenin, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I think you haven't answered my basic question, but I know the answer. Unfortunately, we continue to move on momentum and there is still no clear concept of what and how we do with properties abroad. These wishes and measures that are taken, from time to time are the same, naturally there is always an explanation of what, how and why it was done. I just want to clarify: I did not say they were sold at low prices, but there are suspicions when they are done because there is little information and transparency. The fact is, the idleness has gone on for quite some time. In 2013 we started making such an electronic register and even found properties that we did not know were of the Bulgarian state. This in itself also shows that the Ministry in this capacity, in the way it now operates, is not able to use these properties effectively enough. You know that one of the main problems is that whatever revenues come from the Ministry from the sale of such properties, they must be spent by the end of the year, which makes it impossible to plan, use these funds for capital expenditure. So I really call on you, instead of continuing to move by momentum, to try in the time you have left, though to think: one of the options we have discussed is to set up an agency for diplomatic properties outside the country, similar to the diplomatic property agency in the country. Such an agency can manage, plan costs, generate a reserve that can then be used, including for repairing the Bulgarian embassies, which definitely need many places. At least from a better look and interior as well. I did not hear, perhaps say, as a supplementary question: many opportunities have been discussed, as some European countries do, some of these large buildings of the Bulgarian embassies to be used either for joint embassies with other countries, including our region, or to be used by the European External Action Service. Were there such talks at the time, including I can say a few years ago with the Republic of Macedonia, now northern Macedonia? That would be an interesting and important step. Think about these issues, too. It would be a continuation of our Balkan policy and the creation of conditions [[the President signals that time has run out]] for peace and stability in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u44	Thank you. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u45	Yes, there are such ideas about, for example, the free former embassy in Brussels. We have talks with the Croatian government eventually to rent the building for their presidency, as they need it. In Addis Ababa, for example, there is a huge property of 18 thousand. square meters, with an embassy of two people. You understand that there is neither money nor these people have a physical capacity. Whatever the means are, it will be a bottomless pit. There have been talks with the International Food Agency at the UN long-term to rent the building. Unfortunately, when it has diplomatic status, sometimes permission is required from the country concerned. In this case, the government itself did not approve of such an idea. So an analysis has been done, it's been discussed, yes. It has been discussed, my colleagues have written a number of reports on various forms and management of these properties. However, where they enjoy diplomatic status, they can't be... the example of Addis Ababa is good again, they can't be taken out of state property and placed as property............................ or in any other form like ADIS. The only way to establish themselves in some trading company is to remove only those properties that are around 19, if I'm not mistaken, which are not used for diplomatic purposes. Unfortunately, where there are huge buildings with much smaller compositions than the need, rather the idea is or, if possible, a separate property to be used, but very often they are huge buildings to be used for embassies. The rest where prices are quite high at the moment, the Bulgarian state should try to sell them at the best price and with this money to repair or buy embassies, or representative offices where we do not have, but to repair where there is a need.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We are continuing with a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria on the data and articles in the media in recent months on unequal situation and treatment of Bulgarian citizens - parents of children in Norway, as well as on the actions taken by the Ministry to ensure adequate protection and assistance of the same citizens in defending their rights and legitimate interests. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! In mid-2018, including early 2019, data and articles appeared in the media about an unequal situation and treatment of Bulgarian citizens of parents of children in Norway. The authorities and institutions in this country, according to these same information, Bulgarian citizens are placed in an uneven, in some cases humiliating situation, in resolving the issue of the granting and exercising of parental rights. I understand that in some such relations between people from different countries, nationalities, cultures, religions, legal systems and others, it is impossible to take into account and protect only the rights and interests of one of the countries, but at the same time I believe that defending, protecting the dignity and rights of our compatriots, especially in relations relating to the rights and interests of children, is a priority of the state, its bodies, institutions and society as a whole. Moreover, the Republic of Bulgaria is a full member of the European Union and it is normal for the Bulgarian state and the European institutions to protect the rights and interests of their citizens. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what actions have been taken and implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to preserve and assist in the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the Bulgarian citizens - parents of children in Norway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u49	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the protection of the child is undoubtedly one of the most important priorities of the Bulgarian state, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, at all of the institutions that have responsibility and competence in this case. The cases of which we are officially notified and Bulgarian citizens have sought our cooperation are two. The third one we know of, we have actually heard from the media, but there is no official support from the parents. This is a matter of choice of Bulgarian citizens. We understand that each country has the right to its own legislation, such as Norway, but there are still basic papers, international documents and contracts that have been adopted and that we have all joined. Specially on the case with Norway, we requested consultations which took place at expert level at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Norway. Bulgaria had representatives from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the State Agency for Child Protection and their Norwegian colleagues from the relevant services. We have discussed issues related to: access to information; mandatory participation of our representatives; we have requested that we be informed whether or not the parent has contacted us; participation of our representatives in court meetings; notification of all urgent and imposed measures in advance; ways of access, communication to children and their parents; measures to preserve the child's native language and a number of other things, a campaign to raise awareness of the relevant parents living in Norway. Also, Oslo employees are already actively working on the implementation of direct consular protection in relation to a number of NGOs. Note that rather against the background of the percentage of children, the citizens who live there, and the percentage of children taken away Bulgaria is rather the lowest. Higher are the Norwegians born in Norway. We have made contact with lawyers, specialists in this area, we have a list of them, with NGOs in Norway itself, who are involved and are also critics of the relevant service in Norway, the way it operates, these are Norwegian organisations, and with countries that have similar and similar cases. You know that, so far, there have been three cases in the European Court of Human Rights against Norway from various countries that, unfortunately, are ending in favour of Norway. The third one's not over yet. There we have a total of five countries, if I'm not mistaken, who brought this case. This is the safest way by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights of Norway to recommend that it improve its legislation in this area. We keep track of these cases, have constant meetings and provide full consular protection. Believe me, this is an extremely sensitive subject for us, related to human destinies, to children, and by no means are we diminishing or delaying the trace of each of these cases. The most lasting solution will be found if we succeed in achieving this common solution. If I am not mistaken, five countries have already joined the European Court of Human Rights. There is the leading Ministry of Justice and if you want more details about the move, you can ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u51	Dear Madam President, dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, dear Minister, honourable Members! As far as I understand from your answer, and I am not surprised, because that is precisely why I asked it, it is obvious that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the principle, a mailbox and collects information from the media, because I have personally bothered to meet these people and that is why I am asking this question. It is true that the information came out of the media, but I met these people and really understood what their fate was, and what worries they were experiencing. I don't know if you've met these people, if you've talked to them, if you've found out what the case is. Moreover, some of these people who have such a case are currently on the territory of Bulgaria. Because otherwise you know what's going on out there, these children will be taken away and given to other families, including alienation, and they will have no connection at all. I did not understand from you whether more serious diplomatic actions of the type of notes have been taken, of the kind of calling of ambassador, because here we are talking about Bulgarian citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and the children are Bulgarian citizens, and the parents are Bulgarian citizens. Because from the conversations with these people and from what we have heard from you, I am under the impression that the Bulgarian State, and in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, remains a passive observer in this situation without taking specific measures. You're gathering information that I don't know what's going to work. Answer me: is there any concrete action? Our services of service "You said that there is full consular protection "what are they doing? Do they require constant information from the social services of this country about other cases that you may not have been informed of? What concrete actions have you taken to protect the rights of these Bulgarian citizens, because this is again about Bulgarian citizens? The country has obviously taken all necessary measures to protect the rights of its citizens. My question is: what are we doing here to protect the rights and interests of our Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u53	Maybe you haven't been listening to me carefully, Mr. Ivanov, and I wish instead of attacking, we could get together. They're called "de-marshe," not "not" and they've been served, and I've personally met with the ambassador. Apart from that, I have not met everyone, but for example Mrs. Wand, I have met personally, and at the Bulgarian Consulate, dozens of times with recommendations, with meetings with lawyers, with the full consular assistance that we can provide. In the same way when it comes to children are already in Bulgaria, the competent ministry is the Ministry of Justice. So surely this case is being followed, there are meetings with people at all levels and it is not just as passive observers, but we do everything we can, and more, under the Vienna Convention on Consular Protection, including at political level, through talks with the ministers concerned, through talks with the ambassador, i.e. by calling the ambassador to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the relevant consultations that I have told you about and with the clearly requested by us. So I think it's okay for us to try to work together, not just attack politically.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u54	Allow me to thank Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. He will answer a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev about the measures to improve the quality of the air in the town of Pernik. You're welcome to address your question. You have the floor, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question to you is about the measures to improve the quality of the air in the town of Pernik. In December 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water announced a procedure under the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" - 2020, through which it directly provides financial assistance for measures to improve the quality of the ambient air to a total of 111 million. 442,000. BGN 101. 58 s. Your Ministry's information. Taking into account the significant needs in the sector, the financial resource under the Programme focuses on a limited number of municipalities, specific beneficiaries under the procedure. These are: Burgas, Vidin, Dimitrovgrad, Montana, Plovdiv, Smolyan and Sofia Municipality. Pernik, which is among the cities with the most polluted air in Bulgaria, is missing on this list. In recent months, a number of increases in fine dust particles have been observed in the atmospheric air of the town of Pernik by five or more times the norm. This predisposes to a number of respiratory diseases and aggravation of the symptoms of others in the residents of the city and of the municipality. In addition, the municipal administration in Pernik has received investment proposals for burning RDF waste, which will further contaminate the city's air. Despite all these facts, the local administration and the competent authorities of the city do not take almost any measures to verify air quality. Dear Minister, my question to you is: did Pernik Municipality apply for the procedure and when? What specific measures will the Ministry take to improve the air quality in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u57	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House Vladimirov and Bonev! On 5 December 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Water announced a procedure for improving air quality. The Municipality of Pernik has not applied for this procedure and is not expected to submit a project proposal as it is not a eligible candidate. The municipality does not meet the main requirement for eligibility under the procedure, namely to have an up-to-date municipal air quality programme approved by the municipal council. At present, such a programme is under way of developing with funding again under the Operational Programme "Environment". For addressing the most serious problems in terms of air quality and over-pollution with fine particulate matter, which is a major problem, the main role, as you yourself noted, is to the municipal authorities. They have to take these measures. Mayors of municipalities where over-pollution is registered shall develop and implement the programmes to improve air quality under art. 27 of the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. By the way, at the end of last year, you were adopted with a great consensus, and at the beginning of this year the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Air Cleanliness was published, which is now looking not only to have such a programme and to implement the measures, but to seek a concrete result of these measures and specific sanctions if such results are not achieved. The municipalities plan and implement measures to reach the established standards. For its part, the Ministry of Environment and Water shall take additional national action to reduce emissions from both sectors with the greatest pollution. Some of the more serious measures that I will refer to here and are again with the Law, which I quoted just now and which was published in the Official Gazette No 1 of 3 January this year, are introduced provisions to limit the use of low-quality coal and briquettes for domestic heating. A legal basis has been established for the adoption of a Regulation on the quality of these solid fuels. In addition, an opportunity has been created to draw up a Regulation on the requirements for wood for domestic heating. The project of a national programme for improving the quality of the air 2018. The program is designed by the World Bank and provides for measures for these two main sectors of domestic heating and transport. The earlier introduction of the requirements of the Regulation, of the Ecodesign Directive in order to support the process of replacing solid fuel appliances with those with lower emissions of harmful substances, such as those money that you talked about under the Operational Programme, the requirement to meet this ecodesign will be from the very beginning. It is also a requirement to this day, although the Regulation has not been formally entered. With regard to emissions from transport, measures shall be adopted. This is the second largest and most significant particulate air pollutant as well as the relevant competent authorities. There has been a change in the regulatory requirements for improving the quality and effectiveness of periodic technical examinations, as most of the cars have malfunctioning exhaust systems, which has a direct effect on air quality. [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] Additional restrictions are introduced when buying catalysts from motor vehicles at the reception points. Changes in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees have also been adopted, which aim at stimulating and using cars, leading to lower emissions in air pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u58	Thank you, Minister Dimov. Mr. Vladimirov, come in. You have the floor for a line again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the aim of my question was to draw your attention to municipalities, as is the case with the town of Pernik, which I mentioned, and are some of the most polluted municipalities in the country for a number of reasons. I was hoping that in your answer you could give me a little more explanation as to why this synchronization between the local administration, as is the case in Pernik, and the Ministry of Environment and Water, is lacking because when we have a city with such pollution, with so much increased fine dust particles, why your expertise, your ministry has not made it possible for municipalities such as Pernik, who need to use funds to improve air quality. I do not blame your ministry, and in this case it is the administrative capacity and the preparation of the mayor's team in Pernik, but I was hoping that the Ministry would still make efforts and help administration like the Pernik, to be able to benefit from these huge funds that are provided on this feather, and air quality in the town of Pernik to improve. If you could, in the back of my head, however, explain to me: what were the reasons why the Ministry did not assist the municipality of Pernik in applying for this operational programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Dear Minister, I'd like you to come in and have a look.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u61	Dear Mr. Vladimirov, I have had the opportunity in this Chamber to answer such a question. I have said the six main criteria by which direct beneficiaries were defined. Unfortunately, at first glance, what you are saying is that huge money is not at all enough, and it may be necessary several times that in the years to come, from 2024, for this programme to be able to solve the problem. Not only in Pernik, but here we are talking about Ruse, Gorna Oryahovitsa, and in fact 23 are the cities in which such measures should be taken. In any case, this programme is currently looking to see what resource is needed, because in the next operational programme there will certainly be one, but they will also not be enough, and resources should be sought from the budget. I think the Prime Minister, too, has said that within the next three-year budget forecast, such a resource will be sought. We are not talking about the lack of synchronization and practically having an active program is a mandatory condition. Because if you don't have a program, what do you do? We need to know what's going on. The municipality of Pernik applied and received funding to develop one. Once there is, this program will be admissible. As a matter of fact, literally this week we had a meeting at expert level with the Commission and about the resource which is expected to be released from other operational programme feathers, we have talks to try to transfer it so that other municipalities can be beneficiaries as well within this operational programme. At the moment, it is early to tell you what this resource will be, but anything that we release and can be transferred to air, we will try to do so because we are aware of the size of the problem and the need for other municipalities to have access to this resource. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kutev asked for the floor of procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u63	Madam President, the procedure is in the manner in which it is conducted. I've already done it maybe for the tenth time. It relates to a bill which was seen more than a year ago and adopted with full unanimity at first reading by the House. Since then, he has not been on committees to be seen for more than a year, namely in the Committee on Budget and Finance of Menda Stoyanova. We are talking about the so-called interest-rates and the citizens with housing-saving deposits. My procedure is an insistent request to you to do everything possible as President of the National Assembly to bring this bill into the Committee on Budget and Finance. This depends personally on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and colleagues from GERB. With the failure of this bill, citizens who have to receive 180 million from the state. Lev, they won't get it. I also use the occasion to address the citizens who are watching us and to assure them that the GERB parliamentary group clearly has no desire to move this issue, because it has not been in the Commission for more than a year now so that it can be seen at second reading. If 2019 goes by, because it's been a year and a half since we've been working on this bill, and it's not accepted, the issue of housing-saving deposits is over. All the citizens who have to get, again, 180 million, more than they'll get this year, ending things on the old bill, from now on they'll never get their money. Once again, I stress that the bill was adopted with full unanimity more than a year ago and has not been part of the Commission ever since. If he joins the Commission of Menda Stoyanova and comes out with any decision, I undertake to bring him into the Chamber after that under some procedure. Without going through the committee's lead committee, where it needs to be processed and get to some acceptable option, he can't move on. Therefore, I ask you to do everything possible for the bill to enter into with Menda Stoyanova, which I believe is an agreement of the Conference of Presidents and a decision of the majority once. The second time I turn to all citizens who have to get their money, apparently fellow citizens, without taking matters into their own hands and without taking appropriate measures, it will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u64	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I assure you that your procedural proposal will be proposed to the Presidential Council. We continue, honourable MPs, with the question of the MP Ivelina Vasileva on the actions taken on signals of violations related to the destruction of dunes and construction activities along the Black Sea coast. Here you are, dear Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Dimov, in the last month there have been increased signals released widely in the media related to the destruction of dunes and construction activities along the Black Sea coast. This is very disturbing and naturally caused a violent public reaction. The first signal was a brutal and shocking violation of nature. It became clear that the owner of the caravan had engaged a diggerist who would align the dune at a camping camp. A part of the protected territory, a natural landmark, sand dunes, Kavatsi locality was destroyed. There were also reports of construction activities in the region of Varna, in Aleptu locality near Sozopol, camping People's anxiety about these cases clearly expresses the will to preserve natural resources and protect the rest of the Black Sea coast virgin places. We know that the Black Sea Coast Construction Act provides for bans and restrictions on construction activities in zone A and B along the coast. Therefore, together with colleagues from the district of Burgas, we have asked questions about the actions taken also to the ministers of tourism and regional development and public works, which have competence under this law. Given the powers and competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water within the meaning of the Environmental Protection Act, the Biodiversity Act and the Protected Areas Act, I ask you the following question: what actions have been taken by the Ministry of Environment and Water and its departments, RIEW Burgas, and RIEW Varna in relation to the cited cases? What checks have been carried out? What are the results of these? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u66	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Minister Dimov, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, regional inspections in Burgas and Varna carried out inspections of the sites indicated in the received signals related to the implementation and compliance with environmental legislation. Regarding the destroyed sand dunes in the camping area, we found that the terrain falls into a natural landmark sand dunes in the area of Kawatsite. The observed damage to the sand dunes is in violation of the regimes of the protected areas defined by the Law on Protected Areas and an order for their announcement. For the precise determination of the type and area of the affected dunes, a geodetic sweep of the terrain was carried out. The person responsible for the infringement has not been identified in the verification. The district attorney's office in Burgas is self-conceived. In this regard, the Regional Inspection should apply its powers to impose administrative punishment after the completion of criminal proceedings in the event that the infringement does not constitute a criminal offence under the Criminal Code. For the investment proposal in the area of camping "Gradina" a procedure has been carried out under the Law on Biological Diversity, which ended with a decision of March 2018 of the Director of the Regional Inspection in Burgas, with which the same is agreed. The decision was not contested within the statutory period and entered into force. The property under the investment offer falls within the establishment area of resort and complementary activities according to the General Development Plan of Sozopol municipality. The check found the disposal of land masses outside the boundaries of the property, which is a failure to comply with the terms of the decision of the Director of RIEW Burgas. An act of administrative infringement under the Law on Biological Diversity has been drawn up for the infringement found. In Aleppu locality, construction is carried out in private properties that fall within the urban area for resort and additional activities, according to the General Development Plan of Sozopol municipality. A procedure under the Biodiversity Act was carried out for the site, which ended with a decision in December 2017, with which the investment proposal was agreed. The same has not been appealed and has entered into force. On-the-spot verification it was found that land mass was deposited on the beach due to collapse of construction activities. In this regard, RIEW Burgas has issued a prescription for removal from the beach of the land tables and a prescription for measures to prevent further descent. An act of administrative infringement under the Biodiversity Act shall be composed for the infringement found. Since the inspection of the site of the area of Arapya, it has been found that there is an approved development plan for a holiday village, for which in 2005 the RIEW Burgas was pronounced with permission not to carry out EIA. In the course of the procedure, an opinion was submitted by the territorial undertaking of the State-owned State-owned enterprise Tsarevo, according to which the property does not fall into forest territory. The same does not fall into a protected area as well as a Natura 2000 site. There are no registered centuries-old and remarkable trees in the field under the Biodiversity Act. The investment intention was subject to an environmental impact assessment procedure and the Regional Inspection was ruled out by a decision of May 2018 not to carry out such an assessment. The activities of removing long-term tree vegetation themselves are not within the competence of regional inspections. The maintenance of the green system and the removal of vegetation is within the authority of the municipal administration, on whose territory the site is located, as well as the implementation of the Law on Construction of the territory and the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Signals for construction activities in the area of Varna Municipality, carrying out construction activities near the beach of the resort "St. St. Constantine and Elena" - the land of Varna. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Excuse me, I understand that I'm delaying, but there were a lot of subjects. There's been a field check and paperwork. The site of the construction carried out does not fall within the boundaries of the protected areas of the Natura 2000 network. Construction, construction of a hotel, agreed in accordance with the environmental legislation. No violations have been detected. Last, the installation of metal construction on the beach in the village of Shkorpilovtsi, Dolni chiflik municipality. There's been a field check and paperwork. It was found that in the northern part of the sea beach Shkorpilovtsi there is a metal structure with excavated concrete steps, some of which are dug into the sand. There are no traces of concrete being poured into the field. For the sea beach Shkorpilovtsi south is available a scheme for placing moving objects and facilities approved by the Ministry of Tourism. Information has been requested from the Ministry of Tourism, after which we will establish the need to take administrative action under the environmental legislation. Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u68	Thank you, Minister Dimov. Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your information. The reply shows that the Ministry of Environment and Water and, in particular, its regional units have committed themselves to the signals received and carried out checks according to their competences. In connection with the destruction of the dune of camping, we all expect the result of the criminal proceedings against the guilty. I hope that the Law will be applied in all its rigour. This should also serve as a warning to anyone who thinks about doing similar actions that cause irreparable damage to nature. I think it is important, as I have also mentioned the case, that I included it in my question at this stage, because at the time when I formally asked my parliamentary question, this had not become public knowledge, but I think it is important that people know that it is currently not possible to build it in the area of the Coral. According to the order of the Minister of Environment and Water from 2014 the current court confirmed a complete ban was imposed on the construction of construction activities in the area of "Coral" until all required and environmental procedures were carried out. However, the most important thing is not to allow violations and to prevent activities and actions. I believe that control, both preventative and current, should be strengthened. In order to improve its effectiveness, a coordination mechanism must be established between the institutions: the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Tourism, and joint, systematic and comprehensive inspections should be carried out. To conclude, I would also like to call for an interaction with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Tourism to analyse all the circumstances and details of the cases that I have cited, as well as the regulations. In the event of failure to propose adequate changes and to take actions that have a deterrent effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Allow me to thank Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. She will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev on the policy of the Ministry for the implementation of electronic wineries. Mr. Danchev, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The beginning of electronic wineries in the country was set about a month ago with a bang. The system's shutting down. Terminals are down. People didn't have anywhere to get wine. The system for converting old paper tarts into electronics has been breached and has been stopped indefinitely. The management of the Road Agency has been changed, the director of the Toll Management......................... and its place has remained unoccupied to date. In fact, the latter only proves many times what BSP explained, namely that when the system is wicked, the change of one employee does not solve problems. The Prime Minister apologized to the citizens for the inconvenience, but what of it? Drivers received a bonus without control for the presence of a bill until January 15th, in order to give more time to the Road Infrastructure Agency to fix the problems. It turned out, however, that this time was not enough to remedy the problems. What's worse is that the problems at the start of the system not only don't end, they don't slow down. In many places gas station terminals are not regularly serviced. Validating a tart purchased from the website bgtoll.bg and paid by bank transfer takes several days. Checking to issue an electronic sticker on a particular vehicle often does not work. There are also problems with the administrative services of requesting electronic wineries for people with disabilities. In the case of incorrect data entered on a vehicle when buying electronic wineries there is no possibility of correction and the amounts already paid are not refunded and it is therefore necessary to repeat the application. Thus, in practice, double payment is also required for the same vehicle. For the problems in the system for tens of millions of levs, where it turns out that no elementary checks have been provided for the eligibility of the input data, which is why the process of converting paper tarts into electronic ones has been failed, has been accused, I quote: the unscrupulous citizens. I could list the problems shared by many citizens and companies for a long time, but as I am sure that you are familiar with them, I will move on to our questioning, and it is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship of Electronic Wines since the beginning of 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Next up is an answer. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Danchev, dear Mr. Svilenski, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The policies for the introduction of the electronic winery are an element of the process of introducing electronic charging for the use of the Republic of Bulgaria's network by introducing a mixed system for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely: for road vehicles with a total mass of less than or equal to 3,5 tonnes of electronic charge based on time or the so-called With the selection of a contractor, the Kapsh Traffic consortium and the conclusion of the contract on 15 January 2018 the process for introducing the electronic charge for the use of the Republican network in Bulgaria was actually launched with first priority: introduction of the electronic bill. A complex of technical and organisational measures were planned and implemented when implementing the activities for the introduction of the electronic bill, legislative changes to ensure the effective implementation of electronic fee on a time basis as of 1 January 2019. The implementation of the policies for the introduction of an electronic winery has put before the team of the Agency Road Infrastructure and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to solve new and complex tasks for which, on a national scale, no specific expertise has been developed and the possibility of carrying out good practices from other projects due to the specifics of the process of electronic charging itself. In this context, the World Bank's advisory support was sought, whose experts had already participated in the earlier preparatory phases of the project and thus ensured continuity and continuity of the knowledge transfer process, good practices in introducing the electronic charging system. In parallel to this process, a procedure and selected consultants with experience in this area were carried out on the basis of the emerging need to adapt legislation to the new charging model. The project management team was thus provided with the necessary additional expertise and conditions were created for the successful implementation of the activities. On 18 August, seven months after the start of the project, the contractor presented to the project management team and international consultants of the World Bank a prototype system capable of carrying out functional tests and tests from the end to the end of each of the installed functionality by electronic screw components. In the period August-November 2018, tests were carried out on the main structural elements of the programme proposed by the contractor and agreed with the contractor and consultant, two mirror data centres serving the central component of the system, with the possibility of a full mutual reservation of resources and a high degree of continuity in the provision of the service; channels for the sale of electronic wineries; a control and enforcement subsystem; a payment management subsystem involving the construction of its own card payment infrastructure without the participation of a servicing bank, which will provide no less than 17 million in the first three years of operation of the system. lv. Saved as bank service fees. The introduction of this element also led to the adaptation of the legislative framework with changes made in April in the Law on limitation of payments in cash. With the adoption of the amendments to the Roads Act at the end of September 2018, the organizational framework for institutional identification of the so-called toll collector is outlined as an independent unit in the Road Infrastructure Agency. The model adopted by amendment and supplement to the Roads Act for providing the electronic charging system focused two functions in the national toll company. This model is specific and has been dictated by the relatively shortened deadlines for building a system with such a range of charge more than 10 thousand. A mile of road network. In the beginning of November until mid-December, along with the activities of building the new administration of the National Tol management, the contractor and the first phase of training of the teams for the commercial and technical operation of the electronic charging system in the electronic billing part took place. The final stage in adapting the legislative framework for the introduction of the electronic bill was the adoption of changes in the Road Traffic Act in the part of regulating the process of detection of infringements in the use of the Republican road network in an environment of the introduced electronic charging system on a time basis and the organisation of the law enforcement, authorities and competence process. The legal changes also gave rise to the need to update a number of sub-normative acts, such as the development and adoption of a completely new regulation on the conditions, arrangements and rules for the construction and operation of a mixed charging system for different categories of road vehicles on a time basis, based on distance travelled, an update of Regulation H-19 on the conditions and arrangements for the release of persons of 50 per cent and over 50 per cent reduced working capacity... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u74	If they don't mind Mr. Svilensky and Mr. Danchev, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u75	Time's up. Thank you, I'll continue with more information.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u76	Here are two supplementary questions, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u77	Thank you, Madam President, for interrupting in time Mrs Avramova, because what is being presented to us is a chronological narrative, but unfortunately, this chronology does not answer our question. Besides, it seems to me that the timeline, even if we'd listened to it to the end, wouldn't have been complete. I am therefore obliged to note that BSP has repeatedly warned that the policy of introducing the electronic toll system is deeply wrong, led by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. First, I personally warned colleagues from GERB that in November 2018, just days before the launch of the system for electronic wineries and tolls, they introduced legal changes aimed at legitimising the already-made electronic system for issuing wineries and collecting tolls. This meant that the system was made without clear regulation and the results of this, of course, were not late. They were mentioned just now in my exhibition. In addition, BSP repeatedly reminded and made its legislative proposal to follow what was prescribed in the recommended and paid advisory report by the World Bank, which Mrs Avramova told us about, on the basis of which the Strategy of the Council of Ministers for the introduction of this electronic system was adopted, and where it says that this system should be managed by a state enterprise. And this was not heard by any representative of GERB. In this regard, we are all now waiting to hear from you, Mrs Avramova, at least answer a few more important questions. First, is it true that there was pressure on the contractor when building the system to use specific subcontractors? Is it true that shortly before the Christmas and New Year's holidays of 2018. API ordered the closure of the assembly terminals, i.e. it sabotaged the release of the service itself and caused the chaos with the purchase of wineries at the beginning of the year? How many frames will be used for the tol system and how many are legalized by them under the Law on Construction in the Area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Danchev, dear Mr. Svilenski, your question is about the common wine policy, although in your presentation you made almost a declaration in which you submitted data, with most of which I would not agree. I would accept any expert opinions and assessments, as well as advice to upgrade the offered service because I think it is important for Bulgaria, it is important for all people who use the Republican Road Network who want good roads because every Friday you ask me about roads. These funds from the introduction of the electronic tart, not but from the introduction of the system as an increase in revenue in the Road Infrastructure Agency are necessary and you know it, as well as everyone in this room. I expect from all the parliamentary groups to have constructive talks on the subject and to come together if you have concrete proposals on how we can upgrade the system and make it better. I do not agree that the system did not work because the problems were technically, you know.. from 2 to 4 January. They were removed with the joint efforts of both the company that implemented the electronic winery system itself and the teams of the National Tol management. The analysis carried out shows that there are now over 5,000 points for buying electronic wineries, which are much more than the points that existed previously for buying paper tarts. The ways of buying are much easier and much more accessible to people, and that, in individual cases, like any electronic system, there are times of failure of a terminal or any other technical problem, they are removed in a timely manner, for which I believe that efforts are being made by the National Toll Management. You know, the work of ATMs isn't always 100%. Each ATM can go out of order and repair the malfunction in a timely manner. On the extra questions you asked me, I don't know about any pressure. I'm reading a yellow press, but I don't know about any pressure given to the contractor for hiring subcontractors. Perhaps you should ask this question to the performer of the system, and this is I don't know what you're up to with your extra questions. I tried in my response to be as comprehensive as possible. By the end of January, more than 440 thousand vintages were sold than in the same period last year. If there was a disturbance which I told you was from 2 January to 4 January, all those who, in the period when there was a disturbance and a problem of the connection between the system and the Borika, all were returned the funds made was the corresponding regulation to which they were returned and the funds were returned from mistaking two or three times more, there was a problem up to four, overtaked funds. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I do not want the Bulgarian citizens to be under the impression that the system is not working. On the contrary, the system works. More points are provided for the purchase of tarts. Colleagues who are on the road with toll cars are already working. There are checks carried out, there is payment of compensatory fees, so the enforcement system is also in operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u80	Thank you, dear Minister. For your treatment, Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam Minister, it is good that you stand on this platform and answer the questions that you are asked, not to comment on whether we make declarations or any other findings, because there was a specific question: first, what is the policy, and, secondly, several issues that you did not answer. The fact that you read the yellow press only in its yellow part, I don't know how good it is, but it's nice when you read the press and when it was the company's representatives in this press that spoke, the least you should have done, and now we're going to do it, is to refer the prosecution. [[Relations from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] I will put the questions again to you here: is the company being blackmailed to be used subcontractors by the losers ranked second and third? [[Relations from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] Madam President, I ask that this colleague, who has been very active recently on the Election Code, come to the stand and speak, not interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u82	Continue your attitude, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u83	Madam Minister, we have been waiting for the answers to a few questions: the frames on which the cables must be installed are legal or not legal, and if they are legal, how many of them are legal? And say it.. legal is 20%, 30%. You're not answering. Ask the firm, ask the D.A. to do a background check. I'll tell you again, we'll do it. Has there been an order to stop the installation of these terminals, which you are talking about, that it is normal to make mistakes 10 days before the end of the year, a letter from API to the contractor company to suspend the installation of terminals? Was there, or wasn't there? I do not see what is difficult to answer. And you can't say that ATMs are normal to make mistakes, because that's exactly how normal people go and fix them in time and there's no problem. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You want this tribune to give people the impression that the system works. People get the impression of what they see on the ground, what they see on the road, not what you say or what we see on this stands. It is clear that with the introduction of this system you have failed and you must say it. And not to fire two members of the API and one director of the Toll Department and this department to stay for a month without management. I'm asking: who's running the station right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u84	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u85	And you didn't say what measures you would take in this regard. You say that for natural reasons you do not have the capacity it is not for natural reasons, just so can the government. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And you've hired the World Bank, which we've given a few million dollars to make these problems happen right now. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u86	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u87	And you hired this consultant to make such recommendations that Bulgarian citizens should now suffer. [[Replication by National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] Let's not replicate from place to place again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u88	Are you finished, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u89	Dear Madam President, in relation to the request made on the basis of art. 105 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly 59 Members of Parliament are submitting a request for a debate on the topic of implementation of the electronic system in the Road Agency. Thank you. [[The National Representative Georgi Svilenski submitted the folder to President Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The proposal is well-formed. In connection with the previous inquiry by letter No 954-00-4 of 8 February 2019, submitted at 12.11 p.m. today, a request was received for a debate on question No 954-05-4 of 16 January 2019 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry for the implementation of electronic wineries. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 59 MPs. The requirement set out in Article 1 shall be fulfilled. 105, para. 1 of the Members of Parliament, more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly, to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We move on to the next question to Minister Avramova. He is from the National Representative Pencho Milkov on the necessary repair of the Rainbow Bridge over the Ruseski Lom River, Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u91	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister Avramova, this is another question for me regarding the Rainbow Bridge over the Ruse Lom River in Ruse. Seen from the answer of 3 October 2017 of the then minister to my current question about the so-called Rainbow Bridge. Over the Ruse Lom River in the city of Ruse the same needs urgent repair. The facility is subjected to serious traffic every day to connect the central part of the city with the industrial zone in the western direction and the exit of the city to Sofia. It's a very busy bridge. An inspection was carried out in 2016 and it was found that the bridge should be repaired immediately in 2016! In the reply of the Minister to my previous current question in 2017 the repair was promised to be carried out in 2018! So far, the renovation has not been carried out for more than a year and three months since the promise. In 2018, a public procurement contract for the construction of the technical project with an estimated amount of 80 thousand was announced by me. lv. There's no clarity on the actions after that. What must happen in order to repair such a substantial facility for the city of Ruse within a normal time frame, provided that an urgent repair needs have been found in 2016? My questions are: has the technical project been drawn up to repair the Dougian Bridge in the city of Ruse been prepared; what will be the value of the renovation; what will it be; when will the real implementation of the construction works take place and, most importantly, do you guarantee the safety of the people when using the facility at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Avramova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Milkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The plans of the Road Infrastructure Agency for 2018 really included the construction of a technical project for major construction of a bridge on the road I-5 Ruse over the Ruse River at km 2+654, the so-called Rainbow Bridge. Financing is provided for the preparation of the project documentation. On 9 March 2018, the Agency launched a public procurement contract, which you have just mentioned, in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, with subject matter................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Section 1 concerned the development of a technical project to carry out repair and repair works on the Dougian Bridge. Under this position is submitted an offer by only one participant "MostConsult" Ltd. When considering the technical proposal of the participant, the Commission has identified a discrepancy between the procurement requirements of the contracting authority and the technical proposal provided by the participant. For this reason, the price offer of the participant is not open. In 2019 API will launch a new contract to select a contractor to design the technical project needed to repair the facility. In the event that the procedure is not appealed, a contract will be concluded with a selected company, which will have a 150 calendar days period to draw up and submit design documentation for the facility to the Agency. The types of work to be included in the project, as well as the value of the construction and installation activities, will become clear after the final adoption of the project by an expert council. Following the preparation of the technical project, a procedure will also be launched under the Law for the selection of a contractor of the construction and installation works of the construction supervision. I understand your concern about the status of the bridge and I undertake to launch immediately this contract for selecting a contractor for the design so that we can speed up the activities related to the construction of the bridge itself. To secure the bridge is provided an ongoing maintenance, it should be noted that the section of road I-5 Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," which is located within the urbanised territory of Ruse, including the facility, is subject to a dispute-making protocol between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Municipality of Ruse for joint financing of maintenance activities, including winter maintenance of Republican roads within the boundaries of the urbanised territories. Under the terms of the agreement, it is a commitment of Ruse Municipality to commission maintenance work for the facility and the Agency participates in the financing of the event. The maintenance during the past 2018 has also been subject to an agreement and in fulfilling its commitments in 2018 Ruse Municipality has commissioned a patching of the flooring of the facility mainly in the part around the fugues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Milkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u95	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! I'm not satisfied with that answer. 150 working days for the development of a technical project, provided that the procedure has failed once and we are yet to start a new procedure and if it is successful people need to hear it, after 150 working days there will be a project! Eventually, I believe in your assurance that a builder would be found after this project in an emergency order. This means at least a year and a half to actually not start reinforcements. Since 2016 is the opinion and this agreement with Ruse Municipality cannot be transferred again to municipalities for substantial constructive repair of this bridge. Just because the City towel doesn't mean the bridge isn't dangerous. My last question was: are you guaranteeing the safety of the travelers on it, provided that 2016 your office has produced an emergency repair service for 2016! The bridge is old and still guarantees traffic in the west from the town of Ruse. That is why we cannot be satisfied with this answer. I understand that the Public Procurement Act is in effect, but the answer does not satisfy me. The procedure can be for engineering, both design and construction. Since March 2018, more than a year has been the previous procedure, the next one could have been started after the money was provided in 2018. I repeat, for three years now after you have found the need for urgent repairs, this is a bridge is not a road. I ask you again: do you guarantee the safety of people driving along the bridge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u97	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milkov, I understand your concern. It is also my concern. Thank you for that question. I make a commitment to do what is necessary to speed up procedures. Otherwise, I would like to reassure you that all the bridge facilities are being controlled, inspecting at the Road Infrastructure Agency there is an analysis of the state of all bridge facilities in Bulgaria. I'm committed to speeding up procedures so as to proceed to the actual repair of the facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u98	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev concerning Republican Road III-637: the town of Tran village of Vukan.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u99	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is about Republican Road III-637: the town of Trun This is the section of the road located entirely on the territory of Pernik region. Passing along the road is very difficult. The passage between two municipalities in Pernik region cannot be achieved, namely Trun and Zemen, whose only direct link is him and where people from eight settlements cannot go to a doctor or buy medicines or food products. Due to the miserable state of the road, access to public transport, police, emergency and fire services is very difficult and the delay in emergency situations poses risks to the lives and health of the residents of these settlements. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: what adequate action will the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take on the rehabilitation of Republican road III-637: the town of Trun Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u101	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to data from the Agency, the road infrastructure and after a detailed check of the state of the Republican roads throughout the country, it was found that from a total of 574,354 km in Pernik region only 250,456 km are in good operational condition. The rest have problems of a different nature, but mostly related to the condition of the pavement due to the large operating period without repair, impaired drainage and the need for reconstruction of the road section. Among the roads with deteriorated transport qualities stand out: road 3.627, with a length of poor condition over 10 km; road 3.637.. this is the road for which your questioning is, length of bad condition of the section 4 km; road 3.802, with a length of bad condition of the section 7 km; road 3.8114, length of the section in poor condition 15 km. A total of 37.6 km, which requires indicative about 15 million. lv. Road 3.637 "Vulcan" "Pankowski" is one of the priority sites for Pernik district. The third-class road is 38 km long. The gauge on the road is variable, and in places it is heavily narrowed. For this area alone, the necessary means of repair are 1 million. 640 thousand. lv. The road is taken care of according to the available means of maintenance both in 2017, and in 2018 under the Programme "Current repair and maintenance" activities are carried out: asphalt, landscaping and landscape shaping, disassembly, delivery, installation of restrictive systems, filling of banquets, delivery and laying of concrete curbs and more. For road 3.637 in unsatisfactory areas, which are the dominant part of the road, as you have just pointed out, there is currently no technical project available. Information on the current state of the Republican road network in the country will be processed and, in accordance with the financial framework of the 2019 repair programme, prioritization of the sites of the Agency's investment programme will be carried out. An important financial source, which we expect with the generation of funds from the introduction of the tol system, will give us a little more freedom to be able to include these sections of the Republican road network, which are in the condition in which road 3.637 is also in the priority sites for which major renovation is needed. In the rest of the time, with the funds that are in the Agency's budget from the Current Repair and Maintenance Agency, we will maintain the roads, including the one for which you are making a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u102	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, from your written answer we understand that the road III-637 "Vulcan" is a total length of 38 km and 24,95 km are in poor condition. To explain what a bad state of the road is. According to the methodology for measuring damage to road surface damage, the road is: road with damage to the pavement more than 30%. At present, there are sections where the road is not there, physically it is not there or to such an extent that asphalt is rare. The explanation of the electronic wine and the toll system from last year by the previous minister we heard it constantly as some kind of apology, it is currently not up to date. In my reply, Madam Minister, I want you to make precise and clear commitments when this time, forgotten by everyone, a path in extremely difficult condition that connects two municipalities, will be rehabilitated so that there can be communication between the two municipalities and the people to serve normally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bonev, all priority roads will be set in the Agency's 2019 programme. It is not ready yet and this program is not finally completed. Believe me, my great desire, and I am sure that yours is, throughout the country, all roads from the Republican and municipal road network to be rehabilitated immediately. We are trying with the means we have, indeed, in every area, in every municipality, where there are roads in unsatisfactory and poor condition, to anticipate them, to prepare projects and to assign them to implementation. I would very much like to tell you now that before the program is ready, it will be included in the program. Give me time! Let's look at the priority sections in Bulgaria with the most severe condition and I will inform you personally about the results of this prioritization. "Whether it is possible to enter the programme for 2019 as a major repair, because the road needs a major repair, or it will be with ongoing repair. I will personally inform you of this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u107	Thank you, Madam President. A quick procedure in the manner of conduct. More than 20 days ago, Madam President, through you I approached the Ministry of Regional Development to perform art. 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: State and local authorities and their administrations are obliged to cooperate with the National Representative and to provide him with information and documents upon request in connection with the implementation of his powers. The MP has a right of access to state and local organizations............................................................................................................................. to meet documents........................................................................................................................... In the letter 20 days ago, I asked the Ministry of Regional Development, which is the principal of the state-owned company In those 20 days, Madam President, I was answered by one letter that there were no framework agreements, by a second letter I was answered that there were two framework agreements, at a press conference it was said that they expired in December, now, in another reply, there are at least twenty such, or more, framework agreements, but it says: "Mr Svilenski, please come to the Automagistrals. Please, Madam President, as representing the institution, protect the authority of the National Assembly, if possible, of the MPs, and order the Minister of Regional Development to provide the requested documents in due order in the Bulgarian National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I will give the Minister of Regional Development an explanation and an answer. See, she's here right now, she'll answer you. But the letter is not addressed to me to seek help from me, you sent it directly to the institution, so here you have the opportunity Minister Avramova to answer you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Svilenski, in the first letter you refer to: In connection with a contract concluded between the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, the answer to this letter is that, in relation to the contract concluded for the construction of "Hemus" there are no such framework agreements. In the second, specifying your letter, you requested that you be provided with the framework agreements of the said companies with the Auto-maristras. That is why we have answered you and we have given you an answer which of these five companies have contracts or framework agreements with the Ministry, the Minister of Regional Development, but it is an independent legal person who participates in the civil turnover as an equal commercial entity. Involved in civil legal relations, subject to regulations, enter into transactions like any other private equity trading company and is subject to the same rules. In accordance with the contracts concluded between the Automobiles and the service providers, the parties are obliged to comply with confidentiality and trade secrecy. This means an obligation not to disclose any information relating to the performance of the contract In the event of a request for such information, claims may be made against the Company for damage suffered, including in the form of penalties. In accordance with art. 20 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, the Treaties have the power of law on those who have concluded them, and the disclosure of commercial information next may lead to a distortion of the principle of competition. In this regard, the Authority has strictly fulfilled its legal and contractual obligations by providing the requested information to both Members of the National Assembly and under the Law on Access to Public Information, subject to all applicable regulations. In view of what I have said, Mr. Svilensky, you are invited at a convenient time for you. No one has refused information, on the contrary, you are invited at a convenient time for you at the Auto-Bulgarian School, where you will be provided with all the contracts and framework agreements that you have requested with the two letters to which we have responded. In the letter we have given you a list of available and expired 2018 and as of 2019 at the present time, as you have requested, an agreement number or a contract, an expiry date. So, come on in, no one in the Ministry of Regional Development or in the Ministry of Auto-magistrips and EAD will prevent you from having access to all framework agreements and contracts. The assessment of lawyers is that they should not be exported, given the clauses in the contracts concluded outside the Company. Please, we're open. As you can see from all the questions that the MPs ask and in relation to road infrastructure, all of them have questions even with 17 pages of answers, we are struggling and trying to be infinitely comprehensive in our answers and give you all the information you want to have. Currently we have about 70 questions to which the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency are preparing answers. My orders are that they be as thorough as possible. Here you will have access to all contracts and framework agreements listed in your inquiry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. As you can see, information has not been denied to you, there is simply a proper order in which you should get acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u111	Procedure as you wish, Madam President, at the risk of violating the Rules of Procedure. Madam Minister, first of all, what you said was in connection with the... Read this one more time or whoever wrote it to you: In the context of the contract concluded for the construction of the highway of Hemus................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, I am obliged to say, Madam President, I expected you to react, this is the National Assembly, here, this building. Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic. And don't speculate on the legislation! There's no trade secret law, it just hasn't been passed yet. I think we discussed it this week. The only thing you can invoke is the Commercial Law, but there are the hypotheses where something is a trade secret. In this case, what we want is not in these hypotheses. And just because your lawyers have decided that something is a trade secret, that doesn't mean there are laws in this country, I say again. Once you can give it to me at the Automation Streets, I am just as much a MP as I am in the Automation Highways as I am in this building, and please provide them here. What's the problem? So, something's a trade secret there I can see it, but here you can't give it to me because your lawyers decided so?! Madam President, this is indeed a precedent, I hope, not to respect requests, questions and not to comply with the law in the state. This is the one that we have accepted all of us, who says they are obliged to provide information and not to circumvent the law with different motives!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u112	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u113	You understand that tomorrow, no trading company, no state institution can be controlled, because my main duty, other than writing laws, is to exercise control over the executive power, the second, and for us, the first, as opposition. And you want this thing destroyed! Let's be as good as we are, to enforce the laws of the state, the Constitution and, within Monday, to receive all the framework agreements as I have asked them, not to read the commas in the demands! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u114	In addition to creating laws, we must also abide by them, Mr. Svilensky. And since the order of the lawyers of the Ministry is such.. I think they have not refused to give you access to information, but have invited you at a convenient time to get acquainted with this information! Thank you. [[National Representative Georgi Svilenski speaks away from the microphones.]] We control them. Thank you. All right, I'll check it out. We continue with a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova about the work of the companies employed to maintain the state roads in Smolyan region. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u115	Dear Madam President, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers! Dear Minister Avramova, my question is about the work of the companies employed to support the state roads in Smolyan region and in particular I have developed the question before you that please inform me which companies have been selected to maintain the public roads this winter, with what technique and with what human resources they have on the basis of the selection of public procurement or tenders and what is your assessment as Minister for their work? I'm asking this question because it has a great public interest. Madam Minister, every winter with heavy snow, we Rhodopeans are in a disaster that has not been. Parallel to this, these are state roads. Rhodope region, Smolyan region is only on wheels and here is the doubt and the question: the companies that appear are construction, yes. It's the construction process all year round. Whether the technique with which they appear before the API (Agency of the Road Infrastructure) or the auctions is not somewhere on the construction sites and in parallel to hiring subcontractors of one truck, one oar in front, and there is no normal technique to support the passages. Two weeks ago, there was no such miracle, in the last history of the Rhodopes there was no: the border closed, Rozhen is closed, the national resort Pamporovo itself is also. Did the management have to come? Should the API and the head of distresses and accidents come at every big snow and take over the case? This also raises other questions about the functioning of the area, and as the issue is of great public sound, please answer the way I have asked it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Road Infrastructure Agency has signed a contract from 1 December 2014 with Smolyan-south Smolyan, Sofia, to maintain preventive, ongoing, winter and repair works in emergency situations on Republican roads in the territory of Smolyan district. The company is part of the company "Trace Group Hold," Sofia. Sofia, Sofia, and Trace, road construction and universal use through the infusion of Rodopa Trace. The contract was concluded for a period of 48 months or four years from 1 December 2014 to 30 November 2018. Due to the expiry of the contract, a further agreement was concluded between the parties on 30 November 2018, whereby the period of execution of the contract activities was extended until the conclusion of a contract with a participant appointed as contractor following a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. This, in turn, means that during the winter period 2018 - 2019, the performer of the maintenance in Smolyan district is the same JDC Smolyan-south. According to the operating plan for winter maintenance, developed by the company contractor and established by the Agency of Road Infrastructure. The required number of machines and cars that serve Smolyan district is 114, located at 13 support points for winter maintenance. At the beginning of each month, an examination of the available quantities of aggregates, salt, sand and chemicals for the area shall be carried out. As of 8 January 2019, their quantity was: 12 tonnes of sand, 2 tonnes of salt, 8 tonnes of chemical substances. The materials are used continuously and are loaded continuously at the points. Regarding the assessment you want us to give to the road-support company, I would like to point out that the situation in Smolyan district at the end of January was extremely complicated due to prolonged and heavy snowfall and further difficulties as a result. By order of the regional governor of Smolyan district of 26 January 2019 a disaster situation was introduced on the ground of fallen many trees, interrupted power lines, stopped electricity. power supply, narrowed and reduced conduction of the Republican and municipal road network. The order was issued for the purpose of carrying out rescue and emergency recovery works, as well as the eradication of the effects of snowfall. In addition to the fallen trees that blocked the operation of the cleaning equipment, a serious difficulty in ensuring passability created unaltered parked road vehicles on the road lane of the Republican road III-864 Prospect "Pamporovo".Steps and road III-8641 Pamporovo.Smolyan, serving the resort complex Pamporovo, as well as unprepared for winter driving motor vehicles. The traffic for all vehicles through the Prevala Pass was limited and the passage through the Pamporovo Pass was carried out by regulating by the authorities of the Road Police. Part of the Republican road network in the area was open for passage, and some sections were closed for traffic such as Route III-861 and Road III-8631. In this exceptional environment for the whole area, the road-support company had mobilised over 50 snow-cleaning equipment, providing additional three numbers of rotor snowplows, two combined machines and an autogreader to serve critical points. Of the areas in which there was not such a heavy snowfall are directed ten additional units of specialized equipment in the sections leading to Rozhen and Pamporovo. On the very first day, the Head of the Road Infrastructure Agency arrived on site to personally coordinate the work of the teams. In order to overcome the distress situation Regional Road Management.. Smolyan, and the contractor company worked in continuous coordination, together with the other institutions, regional administration, Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, teams of the Regional Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Regardless of the above as circumstances, the following recommendations will be made to the road support company for a better organisation of work: the company's human resources must be increased because Smolyan is one of the most critical areas in the winter, and the posts are of great distance from each other; providing a technical manager for each company's support point is extremely important for the good organisation of winter maintenance activities; better coordination of the contractor with territorial structures in the field, with technical managers of the supporting posts and with the Management Board of the Agency in order to increase the efficiency of the work. And, thirdly, when preparing the operational plan for winter maintenance of Republican roads in the territory of Smolyan region for the next winter season, the requirements for the contractor will be increased to provide specialized equipment, rotors, graders and carlifter. In this way, we will be able to react more adequately and minimize traffic-blocking cases, as happened in the last situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u119	Mrs. Chairman! Minister Avramova, it was probably good that I asked you the question to draw attention to the conclusions that are particularly important, but do not do this for next year. When the Rhodopes and the three passes are cleaned, there must be at least two rotor machines. A national resort with added value with great anti-advertising! In this case, yes! The weathermen are warning, and that means maximum mobilization. I am convinced that I want to invite you and if we go with you today to Smolyan and you want to arrange the cars you apply to, you will not see these cars! For this reason, I would like to ask you if you would accept my proposal on the API website, on the website of the Regional Road Management site, to upload the numbers of all companies. Invent the cars to have stickers and the sticker to write: It's a little money, but then there'll be trust, civil control, people will see the machines, and you don't need the head of the API to clone it or send it on site. That means statehood has a problem, too. Once there's a yellow code that there's going to be a heavy snowfall, what do cars do on the way? Then that they were fined, that's post-factum. That is, my proposal to you is: you have drawn the conclusions, commented them, commented them interinstitutionally. Yesterday, I saw that the district governor may have been gathering the institutions and drawing conclusions. Tighten control, ask, insist not to be lied to! Ask for more publicity! This is useful for governance itself, for trusting institutions. I don't want to be one of the people who is destructive, but I want the country to have more trust and Rhodopeans to live more peacefully. That is why I draw your attention to me again. Let the Head of Road Management review if you need more money for the region, but now there are rotors, graders, so that the passageways can be cleaned and our economy there will be able to function in winter conditions as well. Moreover, there is an awful lot of forest equipment, and when there is one such disaster, disaster, these companies themselves can also be mobilized. Keep the institutions shorter and do not allow any price for them to lie to you because we do not burn people's trust. Again I turn to you: enter the publicity with the names, with the company numbers, with the machines numbers and stick stickers and people to control as road workers have a number on their back and the company, let the machine see this. This will be useful for civilian control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u120	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, I absolutely agree with the conclusions you have drawn with your recommendations and suggestions. I absolutely agree that the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Ministry are spending public funds and should have transparency and control over their use. I accept your proposal to have transparency in which road support companies have the appropriate machines and they are marked with stickers so that people can see and control themselves. Otherwise, three rotor snowplows are included in the operational plan. This is what should have been on-site in a single auto-greader, not to list them all machines and cars, a total of 114 units and 89 snow-cleaners, so thank you for your offer. It's constructive, and I accept it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u122	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last question to Minister Avramova is from the MP Kristina Sidorova about repairing the road in the area of quarry for inert materials near the village of Skalsko, Dryanovo municipality. Colleagues, just to let you know that parliamentary control will end with the participation of Minister Biser Petkov, to whom there are two questions, so that colleagues who are waiting for Minister Tsacheva and Minister Krasimir Valchev will not be able to answer their questions. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The road from the village of Skalsko, Dryanovo Municipality to Gabrovo is part of Republican road III-5002. The road passes by a quarry for inert materials, and its condition is more than bad. The pavement in places is completely destroyed, places are missing, limiting the visibility of shrubs and trees, lack of signaling. Going down this road is really an adventure, because it's very brave to say that it's actually a road. The area is part of the Natura 2000 site and is an active tourist route and the constant traffic of heavy goods vehicles that drive inert materials to the district centre or other settlements poses a serious danger to those who pass through. Despite the signatures of the residents of the nearby settlements a year and a half ago, which were introduced to the district manager The inhabitants of several villages travel each day along this road and face immense difficulties. Unfortunately, at the moment, a year and a half later after their protest, after their signatures and applications to the government, the road continues to be in a tragic state. In this regard, my question to you is: will the construction of the compromised precinct be carried out and when?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, in the form of a written answer to a question asked by you about the state of the roads from the Republican Road Network on the territory of Dryanovo Municipality, Gabrovo District, I was able to provide you with detailed information on all roads in the municipality, including for road III-5002 Dryanovo Not only does the road section mentioned in this questioning in the district of Gabrovo need repair. Unfortunately, about 8,000 km of third-class roads in the country are violated transport and service qualities as a result of long inter-repairing periods due to a limited budget of the repair programmes of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The length of road III-5002 in Gabrovo is 16 km and the section falling into Dryanovo municipality is 8.6 km. The road passes past Asfaltova base and career. More than 40 years ago, a landslide with a length of about 150 m was found in the area after the base. In the past geological studies were conducted and no solid soil was reached at great depth. In 2017, a review was made by representatives of the District Road Management.. Gabrovo, and District Management................................................................................................................................................................. The opinion of experts is that the main reason for the deterioration of the third-class road is the daily passing of heavy goods vehicles carrying materials from the quarry. The road was built a long time ago and is not sized for such a load, nor for the increasing intensity of movement over the years. On the other hand, along the Republican road in the range of the quarry itself dust is constantly lifted, stones and construction materials fall from the trucks and permanent damage is caused that violates the performance of the section. Most of the road is in poor condition Road III-5002 on the territory of Dryanovo municipality has one bridge facility at km 12+325, with faults on the pavement and low railings. Local repairs to damaged areas and deformities of the pavement were carried out in a small area in 2017. In 2018 on road III-5002 on the territory of Gabrovo, part of the activities of ongoing repair and maintenance, asphalt works, earth works and others have been carried out. The opinion of the experts from the Agency is that the methods of ongoing maintenance cannot achieve this lasting restoration of the technical characteristics of the third-class road that is necessary. We need to do reconstruction and rehabilitation on the road. At the moment, the 2019 Programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency is not available and is not fully prioritized and shaped, so I will give you personal information as to whether the road falls within the Design and Implementation Programme in 2019, but certainly the phase design needs to start actions so that we have a project that we can assign to complete road repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u126	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Sidorova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u127	Dear Madam President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Thanks for the answer. I hope the road falls, because going through it is more than a scary moon scenery. If the road does not happen to fall into the Design Program, let a partial repair be carried out, because there is one section of about 200 meters that is almost impenetrable. It is clear that one of the main reasons for the state of the road is heavy machinery and career, but in some way I believe that with dialogue with the owners of the career you will be able to come to a solution for the repair of this road, because people from neighboring villages daily signal how difficult it is to get there. I will monitor and wait for you to give me an answer as to whether the road falls within the Agency's Programme of Road Infrastructure and whether it will really be repaired in order to be able to pass through it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. There's not gonna be a duvet. We should thank Minister Avramova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. There is a question next to Mariana Nikolova, Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. The issue is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on media circulation requests from employers' organizations, which would practically take the rights and benefits of the employees in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madame Chairman, dear Madame Deputy Minister and Minister Gentlemen! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the media space has once again been opened up by employers' organizations for the withdrawal of rights and benefits of employees in Bulgaria. This happened under the pretext of launching a public debate on substantial changes to the Labour Code. The reasons are, I quote: "True legislation is outdated, overly demanding, contradictory and inadequate. The Labour Code in force in Bulgaria has been in force since 1987, has been adopted under the conditions of a command-plan economy under radically different public conditions. According to them, a new Labour Code should be drawn up and adopted. However, they miss the fact that the legislation related to labour and insurance has the most changes in the Labour Code since 2011 have been at least 37, including taking into account the proposals of employers' organisations. This should have made it adequate for the fundamentally different social conditions established after 1989. The current demands that I define as provocative, and they define as problematic, are: firstly, to extend employers' rights so that they unilaterally terminate employment contracts on their own initiative against possible compensation. Do not pay benefits upon termination of the employee's contract upon retirement. Restrictive changes in protection against dismissal of disabled people, recently adopted quotas for the appointment of workers and people with disabilities to change as well. Eliminate the protection from the conclusion of several consecutive term contracts, allowing for serial conclusion of such contracts, and for up to five years. Introduction of an hourly contract of the type of a zero-hour contract and to ease the conditions for the conclusion of contracts for home work and work at a distance, and for agricultural contracts not only to be day-to-day, but also to become part-time contracts. Eliminate the right to accumulate leave on leave, including maternity and child rearing. Drop the overtime ban. It is now allowed only exceptionally and the maximum number of hours of overtime within one calendar year to increase from 150 to 300 hours. More rights and opportunities to introduce part-time for economic reasons from three to six months. Last but not least, the insurance contributions currently divided by 60 to 40 for the employer and the worker respectively, to change the ratio of 50 to 50 and to replace the basic salary in the employment contracts by a clean or net salary, behind which is hidden the old request for dropping the class of hours served. I don't know if I'm running out of job demands, but I'm done. I strongly state that all that is being offered is not in the interests of employees, but is the withdrawal of those who have been won with the fight against social rights. I can explain what social rights earned take away each of these employers' demands, but within the framework of parliamentary control this is impossible. Therefore, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the question is: what will be the position you will take on these proposals, as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy and as Chairman of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mrs. Mariana Nikolova. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, on the occasion of your question about the requests of employers in the media area, which would practically take the rights and benefits of the employees in Bulgaria, I answer you the following: National representative employers' organizations are an equal partner in the trilateral dialogue at national level according to the Labour Code. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 of the Labour Code states that the State regulates employment and directly related relations, insurance relations and life-level issues after consultation and dialogue with employees, employers and their organisations in a spirit of cooperation, mutual concessions and respect for the interests of each Party. I would like to assure you that the state is making great efforts to create conditions for really equal participation of employers' organisations and employees' organisations in social dialogue, which is part of the European social model. I will refer briefly to the three requests of the employers' organisations mentioned by you. With regard to the request for a change in the ratio of insurance contributions between insurance and insurance, which concerns changes in insurance legislation, with the establishment of the compulsory social security code in 1999, which enters into force from 1 January 2000, the legislator has set steps in the change in the ratio of insurance contributions between the employer and the worker, according to which for 2007 and then the distribution is 50-50 between the two parties. In 2006, changes are being made that have taken effect since January 2007, and the ratio of 60 to 40 is recorded, which is still valid at the moment. There is obviously a need for a debate in society and between social partners and a corresponding consensus in order to bring about regulatory changes. The role of experts on both sides and the careful study of legislation in the European Union is important here. With regard to the proposal to drop the general ban on overtime, according to the Labour Code, there is an eligibility for exceptional work, where it is related to the defence of the country, the work of the Ministry of Interior employees, in case of disasters, in cases of urgent social needs, to complete the work undertaken which cannot be done during regular working hours. As we know, overtime is paid with an increased remuneration amounting to 50% to 100% of the remuneration determined by the employment contract. To negotiate another, as in the first case, is a matter of social dialogue, particularly bilateral between employers' organisations and employees' organisations. In relation to the third proposal, the time during which no work has been carried out shall not be taken into account when calculating the annual leave payable and the payment of compensation for termination of the employment relationship. Employers consider it wrong to consider parental leave as an actual period of work which gives the right to levy paid annual leave. There was recently a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg, which refers to periods not included in the calculation of the amount of annual leave paid in relation to Directive 2003/88/EC. However, the specific case relates to parental leave up to 2 years of age according to Romanian legislation. The Bulgarian legislation provides for more favourable provisions for employees from the minimum standards laid down in European Union legislation, while the time during which they enjoy leave due to pregnancy, childbirth and child rearing is taken into account when calculating the amount of annual leave paid. The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union may be an occasion for a new discussion of this matter in society and with the social partners. I should also inform you that until now, a formal request from national representative employers' organisations to include their proposals on the agenda of a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation has not been made. Following the philosophy of the Law on Social Dialogue, a working group was established in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which discusses proposals for changes in labour law and seeks the relevant consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u133	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister and Mr Minister, MPs! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, you are part of a right-wing cabinet that, as the practice shows, tends to curtsy towards the big business. The big question in this case is whether you, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the government will listen to these demands of employers, or will you take the side of justice, that is, workers and employees? Madam Minister, don't you feel that, under the pretext of updating the regulations, in the case of the Labour Code and possibly the Social Security Code, there are no other intentions, such as the provision of disproportionate rights to employers at the expense of employees' rights? Do you, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Government have a vision for the development of labour relations in Bulgaria or do what the employers ask of you because they are the strong ones of the day, if I may say so. You said you didn't have official demands from employers to do anything so far, and you're forming a working group to look at something they don't want from you. Most of the so-called demands of employers, such as zero contracts of employment, the removal of protection for dismissals, the ratio of insurance and so on, because they are in contradiction with the principle of 'acquired rights', is unacceptable even to be commented, and let alone to discuss in a working group for changes to the Labour Code or the Social Security Code and to enter into the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. If you now step down and agree to even one of these demands, and I believe that even their discussion will be a sign of support for the withdrawal of rights and will be the beginning of the removal of the last barriers in defence of the working Bulgarians. Instead of starting a dialogue on incomes, pay for labor, adequate and normal salaries, in order to keep the Bulgarians and Bulgarian labour in Bulgaria and even to return the one who is still willing to return to Bulgaria, do you not think that we will expel the few left here as qualified labour? Thank you for your reply, but I am extremely worried that you have not said anything about this. I would like to say to you on behalf of me and on behalf of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria very strongly that we will not support any proposal that takes away social rights or is to the detriment of the Bulgarian employer. By the way, the subject is extremely serious and large and does not fit within one issue in parliamentary control. We'll probably continue the debate on it. I hope you realize that this is an extremely serious step in the direction of withdrawal of rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u135	Dear Mr. Gokov, I want to assure you that the government is concerned about dialogue and it is not about the withdrawal of social rights at all. I would like to emphasise once again that there has been no proposal from employers to change the ratio of employer contributions to worker from 60 to 40, to 50 and 50, which is the main issue of this change, explicitly in the working group for changes in labour legislation, where they concern a complex of proposals that arise and are proposed for changes in the Labour Code and the regulatory framework. It concerns, again, the insurance legislation. There has also been no proposal from employers to waive the right of paid annual leave to be charged on parental leave. The proposal for changes in the permissible number of hours of overtime shall be discussed in the working group. It seems that consensus will be sought to increase the permissible number of hours of overtime through the mechanisms of collective bargaining. Any other information acquired from public space has the possibility of being inaccurate and incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Let us thank Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Minister Rumen Porozhanov " Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests." He will answer the first question by the National Representative Rumen Georgiev about the launch of a procedure - Development of services and other non-agricultural activities. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Mr. Minister! At the end of last year I was contacted by small farmers from Northwestern Bulgaria who will not quote the name in one of the specialized agrospores to not make an advertisement. The following information has been read: Doctors-Stomatologists and pharmacists will receive support under "6.4.1." Projects of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, as well as proposals related to social care for elderly people and young children in rural areas, will be supported when applying for funding under the procedure The total budget, which will finance projects for investments in non-farming activities, is 35 million. EUR 20 per cent of these funds are intended for the creation of social housing homes for elderly people and the opening of day care facilities for young children. The maximum amount of eligible expenditure per project is 600 thousand. Euros. I have spoken with my colleagues from the Committee on Health and Social Affairs. Unfortunately, some of them did not know about this support scheme. Dear Minister, on 7 December 2018 the admission of services and other non-farming activities under the sub-measure 6.4.1 of the State Fund is completed. In this regard, what is the socio-economic analysis of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the effectiveness of this support scheme prior to its launch? How many proposals have been made? What regions are they from and when will the evaluation and signing of the contracts with the approved candidates be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u138	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For an answer, Minister Rumen Porozhanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, an interesting preamble you have made to the question. First, a little information, then a comment on the extra stuff. The rural development programme for the current programming period has been drawn up on the basis of socio-economic and environmental analysis. It lays down the basic needs and lays down the objectives of the Programme and is an integral part of it. Sub-measure 6.4.1, namely The sub-measure focuses on investments related to facilitating the diversity of the economy, the creation and development of small enterprises, as well as the creation of jobs in rural areas. In relation to the priorities set in the Programme are the envisaged and relevant targets for the implementation period, namely the creation of 4270 jobs by supporting 1600 projects proposals, or on average 2.7 jobs per project. Three procedures for the selection of project proposals under sub-measure 6.4.1 took place in the period 5 September 7 December 2018, for which the Monitoring Committee of the Programme approved criteria for the evaluation of the proposed activities. A total of 826 project proposals, amounting to 456 million, were submitted in the context of the three procedures. lv. for three lots, as follows: On the first lot, investments aimed at development of crafts, 29 project proposals totaling 12 million. 200,000. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The most project proposals are submitted by companies on the territory of Blagoevgrad district and Sofia. In all other areas of the country, the proposals submitted vary between one and three pieces. According to the second Lot, the selection procedure, namely the development of services in all sectors and other non-farming activities, was issued at a total of 276 million project proposals. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. The most project proposals are submitted by companies in Blagoevgrad region 77; they follow Plovdiv 55; Sofia 42. At least project proposals are submitted by enterprises in the territory of the districts of Vidin and Targovishte by two; in the district of Razgrad 3 and so on. On the third lot of production of products that are not agricultural, we have 290 project proposals worth 168 million. lv. and a request for financial assistance is already the grant....................................................................................................... lv. The most project proposals are submitted by enterprises in the territory of Plovdiv District. 43; Blagoevgrad District 42. At least project proposals are submitted by enterprises in the districts of Razgrad, Silistra, Shumen and Yambol. The evaluation of project proposals shall be carried out in accordance with the order laid down by the Agricultural Assistance Act, the Management Act of the Funds of the European Structural Investment Funds and PMS No 162 of the Council of Ministers for the applicable European legislation. At present, by order of the Executive Director of the State Fund, an evaluation committee has been set up to carry out a preliminary evaluation of the submitted project proposals. Upon completion of the ex ante evaluation, the publication of the lists of the number of points received on each project under each criterion, applicants may submit objections to the Head of the Managing Authority within 14 days and the decision on complaints shall be within 60 days. The next stage of the assessment shall be the verification of administrative compliance and eligibility, and the project proposals successfully passed this stage shall be subject to technical and financial assessment. The duration of the examination is three months. The assessment shall end with the issue of an evaluation report which shall proceed to an invitation to conclude contracts with an administrative contract under the approved candidates. Within the scope of the approvals, the final distribution of a territorial principle will be seen. With regard to the impression of an agricultural magazine that such services are financed, yes, these are eligible services: opening of doctors' offices, including dentists' offices, as these are non-farm activities. There are dozens of other types of services that are eligible under both the Programme and the Regulation. As far as social institutions are concerned, we had an indicator. I would just like to point out to you that the subsidy on these projects is not more than 200,000. Euros. This program is similar to the old programs for non-farm activities under the old programming period, which then became famous for photovoltaics and guest houses. We are not currently open to tourism, as there are a lot of things that we need to clarify with the Commission. It's a much longer topic here to look at. That is why we have set a certain limit for social homes, because these homes can very quickly be transformed after the end of the monitoring period in other homes, not homes, but, for example, small hotels or something else. That's why there's got to be surveillance there. We purposely put a small budget on this sub-measure for social housing. It cannot be ignored at all and will be subject to further monitoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have interestingly started the question, as you say, because these small farmers from Northwestern Bulgaria are hardly being assisted and you know very well that for small farmers and producers of fruits and vegetables, there is little help. Next, you say, "These are non-farming activities." Yes, I know very well, but when I was in Vidin three months ago, there I saw three stadiums - I said that twice from this tribune - one in New Village, where people don't have a team, no children, and a stadium is built on non-farm activities. That is why I am asking the question, because I think there is no link between the different ministries and programmes. It was logical before starting this scheme, at least to require and see whether they corresponded to the Health Strategy, the Social Policy Strategy. We all know that health care in Vidin is the last place. The program should be so written that these doctors' and dentists' offices should be built in Northwestern Bulgaria, because in the project bonuses it is written that three points will receive projects implemented in the districts of Vidin, Lovech, Montana, Pleven, Razgrad and Silistra, two points for Vratsa, Veliko Tarnovo, Gabrovo and Ruse. We asked you a question: why are there two points in Vratsa and three points in Pleven? What is the difference since the economic indicators show that the indicators for the villages in Vratsa are worse. On what principle was this done? Then bonus points are given for green economy and innovation. What kind of green economy are we talking about in these activities, and what kind of innovations are we talking about? This is a loophole that the administration can use to assess the projects. I will just say that according to Eurostat Bulgaria is at the bottom of the European Union for personal doctors per capita. This perhaps should have been assessed in the application guidelines in order to be able to be with these funds, these millions are not few, to be built these doctors' offices, dentists' or mobile doctors' offices in Northwestern Bulgaria. $100,000. The residents are 64 general practitioners, with 253 in Portugal, 100 in one Macedonia, which is not a member of the European Union, 64 in Bulgaria. Next, I don't know if you know, but is there a link between the Cross-border Cooperation Programme? You know very well that Romania is allocated 1.5 million for mobile offices, ultrasound, digital X-rays. Is there a link between the two support schemes? This thing isn't reflected anywhere. And from what you quoted about support, it turns out that we approach purely administratively without having a political vision for rural development. Once again, there is no connection with the institutions. These programmes will make decisions.. purely administrative. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating and thank you for your time. Therefore, Mr Minister, I am finally addressing you: I hope that the National Strategic Plan will be dealt with in connection with the new common agricultural policy, precisely here in the National Assembly, so that we can make political decisions and not make such mistakes of a purely administrative nature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u142	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u143	Thanks for the opportunity. Dear Mr. Georgiev, you know very well that small businesses, agriculture, receive dozens of support schemes and that what I said at the beginning, not only is not so. I'm not talking about direct payments, I'm not talking about everything that comes out of these schemes. You are very well aware of what we are currently notifying and we have already started notifications for small slaughterhouses, for small dairy farmers, next week we will discuss for small organisations - fruit and vegetables producers - for refrigeration plants up to 200 thousand. lv. with 50% assistance for which we are already in communication with the Commission. There's a lot of things going on. With regard to these criteria, which you have quoted. Of course, I don't have them in front of me so I can debate them in detail. All these criteria correspond to the Programme and to the priorities set out in the Regulations, including in the Regulation in terms of promoting green factors in each investment. The Monitoring Committee, as well as the so-called Working Groups, which involve absolutely all stakeholders, including the beneficiaries of the aid, are inside, and, of course, the Monitoring Committee, all criteria go through discussion and are adopted on these monitoring committees. I want to tell you that in no way does the administration impose. Yes, we propose, but in the context of a debate one can always make one or another correction in one direction. For the points of Pleven and Vratsa I have to check. It really doesn't make sense that one of them is in 2 or the other at 3. Of course, I absolutely agree with you that there are things that we need to improve in the new programming period. You spent time on the medical part of these projects, in the part of the medical services. Here, however, we talk if anyone wants to, for example, in Karlovo, as there was a report the other day, a private practitioner to make an office or dentist. We do not invest in municipal or state health infrastructure. In this case, I do not think it is right to say: we allocate the budget for health services by districts, we distribute... This should, however, be done in the next programming period when we are doing infrastructure projects that are financed again under the Rural Development Programme, which will be part of the Strategic Plan and in which there should be symbiosis, there should be uniform governance and clear objectives and results in the context of what is financed under the Regional Development Programme, the projects that will pass through rural development, and indeed we should have a budget in areas as well. This is something I agree with, but rather in infrastructure projects, it is very difficult. The other thing is, if we make budgets in the Strategic Plan, I suggest that you consider doing it together, being livestock, fruit, vegetables, but we cannot say: fruit, vegetables in Vidin, fruits, vegetables in each field and thus sign them on targeted budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the second question to Minister Porozhanov, who is from the National Representative Christian Vigenin on measures of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency with regard to herds with a confirmed presence of seropositive animals for the plague on small ruminants. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the National Assembly, as many as you have left! On 25 October 2018, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency announced that in the 20km surveillance zones, around the outbreaks of small ruminants plague in June of July last year confirmed seropositive animals in 103 herds of 59 settlements. As a result of the confirmed samples, on 8 October 2018, the European Commission adopted a decision on new sanctions and extended the area under restrictions. "Instead of 7 border municipalities, the sanctions covered Burgaska, Yambolska and Haskovo districts, which include 29 municipalities. At the end of December 2018, the deadline for the implementation of the extended disease control measures expired and, as a result, according to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency at repeated meetings and discussions between the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the European Commission, it was decided to relieve restrictive measures, which took place by order of the Executive Director of 9 January 2019. In this regard, I would like to ask you what measures have been taken with regard to herds of seropositive animals announced in October 2018? Were new herds and settlements of seropositive animals established in the framework of the controls carried out in November and December, since no information was available? With what main arguments was the European Commission convinced to accept relief to the extent of almost complete withdrawal of restrictive measures for the districts of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u147	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, under the Animal Health Act, which is art. 117, para. 1, t. 7 measures have been taken not to allow animals that are serologically positive, namely those animals with antibodies, as you know, for the plague of small ruminants to leave the breeding sites of other establishments. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 11 of the same article of the Law has been made arrangements to remove such animals from the flocks by sanitary slaughter. Transport of these animals shall take place after examination and issue of the animal health certificate for movement. In the framework of the serological surveillance carried out during the period November and December 2018, six serological positive samples of small ruminants in five establishments were confirmed in five settlements, namely: in the municipality of Sredets of two sheep; in the municipality of Malko Tarnovo on one goat; municipality of Bolyarovo, district of Yambol on three sheep. Then I can tell you the villages. The measures imposed by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which comply with the standards of the OIE and European and Bulgarian legislation, as well as the strategy and results of supervision, are communicated regularly with the European Commission and the Member States within the framework of the monthly meetings of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed to the European Commission, as well as through official correspondence. As a result of the development of the situation in 2018, as you mentioned, of course, Commission Implementing Decisions 954 of 2018, 1499 of the same year for the establishment of certain protective measures, with a view to preventing the spread of small ruminants plague in Bulgaria, were voted on first in respect of the affected municipalities, then in respect of the three areas that you mentioned. The measures resulting from the Commission's decisions were within 28 December last year. 23 800 samples of small ruminants from the three districts were tested as a result of intensive surveillance during the period November-December. Following the expiry of the Commission Implementing Decision, the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed in January 2019 discussed the envisaged national measures, namely the measures in the order of 9 January this year of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. These measures will continue to be applied as a commitment of our country to the Commission and the other Member States to ensure animal health status, to limit the possible subsequent spread of the disease, and to early detection of new outbreaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Everything would be wonderful if, in the meantime, after I had asked that question, there was no new order from Mr. Damian Iliev. Sometimes I feel quite powerless here at parliamentary control, because in the end my questions are primarily about Damian Iliev. I understand that part of them you just can't answer. Damian Iliev was appointed by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. I cannot ask him because Mrs Karayancheva is returning the questions, perhaps understandable, because this is a very specific issue which probably does not concern the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u150	That's right, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u151	Yeah, but at the end of the day, what kind of control do I have? I ask Tomislav Donchev as Deputy Prime Minister, who is so far from this topic that there is no point in asking him. This is where we play questions and answers, and problems remain. What is the substance of this? And my supplementary question before I say the other things, Mr. Minister, is: why does another model of attitude apply to Annie Petrova's flock, rather than the one applied to the new positive samples, and the herds of positive samples that were established last year? What does Damian Iliev say in his order? ▪ To examine each animal in its flock. Those with positive samples, if any, shall be killed in a humane manner and all others slaughtered in a sanitary manner. That looks almost like Cato to me. All the time, Damian Iliev has decided to kill this herd, and whatever is going on, whatever is going on, this herd must die. Carthage must be destroyed. This is such absurd, and I cannot understand why you are putting up with this man's stubbornness to treat these people who after all 191 are sheep, now have 85 lambs, and now what, and we have to kill them the new lambs who are a month or two? I'd like to clarify two more things. First of all, the government says it triggered a plan to cut public administration. What Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev said, bring him into the necessary form, Boyko Borisov said at the first cabinet meeting. According to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, the reform will first affect government officials who have already exercised their pension rights but still work in the administration. Well, Mr. Iliev will be 70 next month. With what is it so valuable and why does it continue to be built on this position in the problems it presents to yourself? I would like to say one more quote from the GERB: To every single person we must be human. We every soul, every person must hear it and help it, because we have the resources to help it. There's a mistake somewhere, he's got to fix it right now. I'm gonna cry! However, how is this relevant and how much are these words worth in relation to Damian Iliev? I believe that this man must be released, I would say, you free yourself from him and us from this figure. I use this case to say that, in my opinion, I say it again from the stand, the Prosecutor General should take care of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. To check the entire saga of small ruminants plague, to check what's going on with the escargots, to check the question of disinfecting along the borders, to check where the money goes for vaccinations and a number of other issues that either have no desire to do, or to obviously have to enter a new person into this agency, dig around and rearrange things, because in the end you will force me to write to the European Commission and OLAF to see how long these outrage will be tolerated, and whether there is an organised corruption whose traces are going all the way to Brussels and Montpellier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Will you take the back? There will be no duplicate on the part of the Minister. We should thank Minister Porozhanov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The issue is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on jobs in the sector.................................................................................................... Mr. Iankov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u153	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, on the basis of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I have brought to you a question about jobs in the sector. In particular: for the jobs and the future of these jobs in a very large coal region of Mini Marishka Basin, where tens of thousands of Stara Zagorska, Haskovo, Slivenska and Yambol region are occupied. Madam Minister, what measures are being taken by the Ministry of Energy to ensure the preservation of thousands of jobs in the sector of the Mini Sea Basin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. For a response the Minister of Energy, Mrs. Petkova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, the question you are asking is extremely important and we all know this because the responsibility with regard to energy management is brought together by both the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, because it is Parliament that adopts the energy strategy developed by the government, and the government is working in the implementation of this energy strategy. I therefore believe that the issue is really extremely important and it is an issue on which we have repeatedly had the opportunity to have discussions, to have discussions and to achieve a union on certain topics of association, which, by the way, we managed to achieve precisely in Stara Zagora. If you remember, there were representatives from all parliamentary political parties represented in parliament, Prime Minister Borisov was there, Mr. Stanishev was there as Chairman of the PES. So we all agreed that we should work together to ensure, first of all, the country's energy security and, accordingly, the preservation, as you mentioned, of the thousands of jobs in this region. The Minister of Energy has a fundamental obligation by law and it is to guarantee the country's energy security. Undoubtedly, the Marishka pool is such a place in our country, which is the heart of Bulgarian energy. This part of Bulgaria is extremely important from an energy point of view to this because it gives us the opportunity, first of all, to have a local resource, namely lignite, which guarantees our energy security and is one of the largest diversification of one of the sources for electricity production. This resource that we own in the Marishka Basin is sufficient to ensure the production of electricity from coal for the next 60 years. The facilities located in the Marishka Basin are extremely important from the point of view of the country's energy security. I will allow myself to share with you just a few data. Forty-six percent of Bulgaria's electricity is produced by coal plants. In winter, this percentage reaches sixty. We all know what the European Union's long-term policy in this direction is - it is aimed at this with certain measures, with certain actions from the energy mix of the Member States to gradually come out of the mix precisely this type of electricity producers. This, of course, is a trend that represents a problem not only for Bulgaria, but also for other Member States, such as Poland, where 80% of electricity is produced from coal. And here we have, so to speak, a common goal, namely to ensure our energy security by maintaining this type of power plant, but at the same time we are also fulfilling our environmental commitments. The measures that the Bulgarian government has taken during these perhaps two years, related to the preservation of the Marishka Basin, related to ensuring energy security, are in several aspects. First, as soon as the European Commission adopted the Reference Document in April 2017. You know that the European Commission has adopted new much higher standards with regard to the requirements for this type of electricity producers, but the amendment to the Directive which the European Commission adopted provides for an opportunity to request a derogation from these increased standards if there are, if certain criteria are met. As soon as this document was adopted after June 2017, a coordination unit was established in the Ministry of Energy to assist each of the plants producing electricity from coal when developing those documents to be submitted for a derogation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Fortunately, this coordination unit is working extremely well. Each of the coal-fired plants developed their documents and their analyses, presented them to the Ministry of Environment and Water and a few weeks ago the Ministry of Environment and Water came up with a first decision regarding the granting of a derogation to the TPP. This decision is to grant an unlimited derogation to the TPP. Unfortunately, on the last day of the expiry of the appeal period, an appeal was brought to the Administrative Court and now this decision of the Ministry of Environment and Water is being appealed. But I am sure that all the motives that are set out in this decision are absolutely justified and the court will rule fairly and I hope that this issue will be resolved. On the other hand, the Ministry of Energy, together with BEH, has taken a series of measures related to the operation of the TPP -Maritsa-East 2 It also took place by December 21st, all emissions, which amounted to just over 360 million. lv. are purchased, so the operation of the plant is guaranteed. From now on, we are in communication with the European Commission, as we will now notify the European Commission with a request for an increase in the capital of TPP - Maritsa - East 2 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u157	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, do you think that's all people expect of you?! The facts you have set out, I guarantee you that those working and related to them know better than you do, as this concerns their future. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you won't be a minister, and the problem will remain. Following the negative environmental standards for coal plants, stress tests and increased carbon prices, the European Commission announced a study of the opportunities and challenges facing coal areas in the European Union. It provides information on the state of the coal sector, predicts the effects of the closure of mines and power plants and offers new options for the development of these coal areas. According to the authors by 2030 and not so far away, the Republic of Bulgaria will close nearly 4000 megawatts and after 2030. Another 670 megawatts, in two stages from 2020 to 2025, and from 2025 to 2030. In the study there are data on how many energyists will be left out of work. Yes, there are alternatives proposed, you must have met, we all know about them. We are all informed of these facts, but you are responsible for taking concrete action to prevent the destruction of the sector in Bulgaria and, of course, not just you, but the entire government, to ensure the safe future for the people employed in these energy companies. Your mandate is not long. Be nationally responsible! You started the answer with a common responsibility for the energy strategy. What exactly did you, the authors of this Energy Strategy, propose to change specifically for the rescue of this sector?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You say that you have as a commitment to guarantee energy security. We all know that nearly 50% of the electricity produced in Bulgaria is precisely from thermal plants. And I'm not just asking you about TPP Maritsa East 2nd, dear Minister, I'm asking you about all the energy companies! Do you know how many people employed in these energy companies worry and monitor your response? What did you tell them? You told them that you provided within two years... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, I'm going to ask you to be as tolerant with me in the line as you were with the Minister in response.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u158	I'm extremely tolerant, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u160	Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u161	Did you know that these people worry and don't know how to predict their future? And for two years you have provided a documentary submission of a request for derogation and now you have announced that on the last day a complaint was filed. The government has opportunities to engage the Foreign Ministry! That the presence of the President of the Party of European Socialists in the discussion in Stara Zagora is a fact, it must tell you that you are part of a governance by a large political family, which is a majority and makes decisions about such directives. Are you aware of that?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u162	Thank you, Mr. Iankov. For the coat, Mrs. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Yankov, I'm impressed with the duck you're talking to.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u164	People will talk to you more patheticly...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u165	I understand, but at the same time, Mr. Yankov, I want to reassure you because the government has done its job. I do not know if you are familiar with the European Union governance regulation, which provides for by the end of 2018. [[(a line from the National Representative Krasimir ……]] to develop a draft National Integrated Plan You must be familiar with this document. You must be aware of it. In the implementation of this document we have developed an Integrated Plan "Climate" which includes the work not only of the Ministry of Energy, but also of all ministries that have a bearing on such a process - environment, regional development, economy and so on. This document is located on the website of the Ministry of Energy, sent to the European Commission. If you bother to see what it says, you'll see what we're betting on coal plants. We have discussed this document with colleagues from the mine unions, with colleagues who work there. So we've told people very clearly what our vision is. Our vision is that these plants must have them and will have them. By 2030 Bulgaria has put in this plan the work of these plants at their full power and subsequently by 2050, because this plan has such a forecast, with such a horizon. By 2050, it is seen what happens to the sector. These plants will remain until 2050 because Bulgaria has no other base power to guarantee its operation of the electricity system. Do you think the government does not know exactly what is happening and we will wait for the opposition to remind us of our commitments and what is important to do for Bulgaria?! Don't accuse us of things we didn't do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u166	Inaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u167	There's no inactivity. On the contrary, the government has not stopped working and colleagues in the Marishka pool know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u168	It's bordering on criminal inaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u169	Mr. Yankov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u170	I don't know if you know this, but my colleagues do. So we've done what we need to do. Moreover, the government adopted a position that we gave the President, who led the Bulgarian delegation to Katowice to defend our position, to defend the position of the government and the interests of the Bulgarian coal mining. So the government is in its place. We have fulfilled our commitments, people know that and are calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u171	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Petkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to Minister Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. The first question is from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva on actions in the competence of the Ministry of Tourism in relation to signals of violations on the Black Sea coast. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Recently, media reports of violations on our Black Sea coast related to construction activities along the beach, as well as destruction of natural landmarks have increased. Among them are the equalization of dunes in the camping of Smokinja, signals of construction actions in Alephu locality, near Sozopol, in Shkorpilovtsi near Varna, as well as at the camping camping of Gradina and the last case of Corala. I want to distinguish these cases from the point of view that the alignment of the dune of the camping area is an absolute criminal act. This situation is now in court. I hope that there will be the imposition of the Law in all its rigour, in order to be a kind of preventive measure for such violations subsequently. The other signals are construction. This is a very sensitive subject for our entire society. My question to you is in this regard to indicate what actions have been taken by the Ministry of Tourism on these signals? What checks have been carried out? What are the results of these? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For an answer the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u174	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mrs. Vasileva, dear Mr. Boychev, dear Mrs. Sawateva! The sustainable development of tourism is a priority in the Government Management Program, with the main step in this direction being set during the mandate of the Cabinet Borisov 2 with a decision to structuring an independent ministry. I am convinced that this sustainable development is achieved through compliance with environmental legislation in the context of the country's natural resources's role in optimal recovery of the tourist potential of the destination. In this regard, I assure you that we are reacting immediately to every single signal, respecting the powers of the legislation in force, namely, under the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, the Minister of Tourism has powers limited within the territory of the sea beaches related to the establishment of acts establishing violations in respect of relations of limiting free and free access to the sea beach, limiting the area of active beach area for free deployment of beach accessories, exceeding the eligible area of moving objects or additional commercial area, the extraction of sand from sea beaches and sand dunes, and the prohibited activities on the territory of sea beaches for environmentally friendly tourism. The structure of the Black Sea coast is carried out on the basis of the concepts and spatial development schemes under the Law on Regional Development, the general planning plans and the detailed planning plans of the municipalities for existing urbanised territories, new urbanised territories provided for under the relevant general planning plan, including areas of areas A and B. The above plans comply with the rules and regulations of the Law on the construction of the territory. The approval of the general and detailed design plans shall be carried out following the environmental assessment procedures under the Environmental Protection Act. In this regard, given the legal framework of the Law on Construction of the Area and the Law on Protection of the Environment, the Minister of Tourism is outside the composition of the authorities controlling the structure and construction of the territories. I am taking this opportunity to inform you once again that the Ministry of Tourism is carrying out constant checks through mobile teams, as well as to appeal to citizens and local authorities to send signals in any suspected violation in order to react preventively. With regard to the specific signals in view of the specifics of each of them, I inform you as follows: as regards the signal for equalisation of sand dune in the territory of Camping The measurement carried out shows that the total area of the affected area is 1295 square meters, of which 1205 dunes of a different type, with 133 square meters of the dunes' area on the seaside beach.Smokini.Northern, subject to a concession from which the rest falls into private properties. The law is adamant that dunes should be protected regardless of the ownership of the property in which they are located. Following the immediate reaction of the institutions and the coordinated one in the face not only of the Ministry of Tourism, but also of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspections, the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office, and following the operational and search actions carried out, two persons have been charged with destroying an illegal natural landmark. The law provides for a penalty of one to three years in prison and a fine of 2 to 10 thousand. lv. to each of the defendants. With regard to the signal about the beach, it was verified that an establishment near the coast was being built. It was found that the site was relocated and complies with the system approved by the department for the management of the strip. The concessionaire of the strip has submitted to the Ministry of Tourism a permit for placing the site, issued by Dolni Chiflik municipality. In the approved concession scheme there are points for the deployment of moving objects. That's one of them. About the camping signal, Gradina. The check on the signal for construction activities to the beach of camping "Gradina" shows that excavation works are involved in private property. The construction works have been terminated. The competence of the National Construction Control Directorate is the announced, ongoing verification of the overall documentation of the building permit and the results thereof. Regarding the construction activities carried out in the Aleppu area, near Sozopol. Once again, after verification by the competent authority, the DNCS and according to the results of that verification, an order for termination of construction activities has been issued because of the stage of implementation of the investment project. The property itself falls into private property, urbanized territory, outside the sea beach. I can assure you that when we have doubts as to whether a construction falls within or outside the sea beach, we are carrying out coordinated actions with all departments which, within the framework of their jurisdiction under the Law, can be affected in any way immediately. I believe that we will continue in this way so that we can as far as possible prevent such constructions that we have doubts that they are not carried out according to the requirements of the Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u176	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I thank you for your detailed answer. We are aware of my colleagues that competence under the Black Sea Coast Construction Act belongs to several ministries. Given your authority, you've done your job. This is indeed a very important topic. My colleagues and I have asked similar questions to the other ministries of the environment, respectively to the Ministry of Regional Development, about this situation, because, as I said, this is a very sensitive topic for society. We need to enforce the law to see what the situation is. I know that this is also a legacy vice with these detailed planning plans, which were adopted 2005, 2006 and 2007, before the Act on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast and the corresponding building permits were implemented. Again, a very sensitive subject for society. We must do everything possible to limit these situations in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Boychev, Mrs. Vassileva, Mrs. Sawateva! Thanks really for the comment. I can assure you that once again, coordinated with all my colleagues, who, according to the competences of law, are related to this, as I have said, to the maximum extent to prevent such violations, we will act and we are in place to do so immediately. Therefore, once again, I appeal to anyone who has any signal or suspicion of violations to make them so that the competent authorities, all of us, are coordinated to respond on the spot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. The second question is from the MP Dora Yankova about the activities of the national winter resorts this winter. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u180	Dear Madam President, dear Madame and Mr Minister, honourable Members of the Bulgarian Parliament! My question is about, Madam Minister of Tourism, the activities of the national winter resorts this winter. Three weeks ago, it wasn't good news for Pamporovo and Bansko. Since a large part of one percent, not small, of economic development and added value in both the national economy and for Smolyan region specifically, where I am from, comes really from tourism, winter resorts are now up to date, and the public discussion around them is seriously active. You know that national resorts are a principal. The principle is the Ministry of Regional Development as urban planning, and in the work of the Council of Ministers you bring out this policy. For this reason, it is extremely interesting as Minister of Tourism what measures have been taken by the Ministry of Tourism and personally you to ensure a successful winter season in national resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u181	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. For an answer, the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u182	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Yankova! The guarantee of the successful course of each tourist season is a complex task of a horizontal nature which could not be accomplished without the integrated efforts and commitment of the state. It was precisely for the purpose of maximum level of coordination and strict implementation of the legally changed powers of each involved country in the period of pre-season training that the Ministry of Tourism held a number of coordination meetings with the control authorities and tourism business, municipal authorities and regional governments, stakeholders to discuss the readiness of the season on the territory of the national winter resorts on 19 November in Borovets, on 23 November in Bansko, 26 in Chepelare. At the working meetings were discussed the readiness of the winter season, of the competent authorities "Consumer Protection Commission, Regional Health Inspections," Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, Directorate General In order to ensure the safety of tourists visiting the resort complexes in the country, an annual plan for the activities of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection, crime prevention and fire safety in the tourist complexes is prepared and validated. Following the reasoned proposals by the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, an organisation is established for the secondment of civil servants with police powers from other bodies of the office. Regional disaster and disaster protection plans have been reported to ensure the security of tourists. According to the current legislation, the Commission for Consumer Protection is the quality of the tourist product in relation to the presence of the categorisation of the sites and the compliance of the services provided therein with the category in question. We are informed that colleagues regularly carry out the necessary checks at accommodations and entertainment establishments located on the territory of our winter resorts, as well as monitoring the compliance of the advertisements and offers of tour operators. The Ministry of Tourism reacts immediately to any signal submitted within its powers, despite the lack of a tourist inspectorate, we carry out constant checks, trying to engage our colleagues from the Commission for Consumer Protection with the key priority for guaranteeing the quality of the tourist product. We're also doing joint checks. The Agency for Food Safety and Regional Health Inspections are extremely active, showing the efforts for responsible and self-disciplined work by the industry, which is a prerequisite for increased quality of the final product. In order to confirm the achieved record results of 2018 over 9 million 200,000 foreign tourists, which is an increase of 4.4%, and revenues of more than 7.2 billion. BGN, or an increase of 6.6%, and their transformation into a sustainable upward trend as a long-term strategic goal in the development of the industry, the Ministry of Tourism is making huge efforts for optimal market positioning of Bulgaria on our main target, generating and promising markets. In 2018, integrated communication campaigns on 16 targeted and prospective markets have been launched and will continue in 2019...................................... Germany, UK, France, Greece, Serbia, Macedonia, Romania, Turkey, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. They will reach nearly 50 million people through digital channels and nearly 80 million people through external advertising and over 5 million people through printed advertising. They are aimed at all our national resorts, both winter and summer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u184	Dear President, honourable gentlemen and ministers, Minister Angelkova! Yeah, and the old tradition, and the image of the national resorts and sure what you're doing, there's a lot of tourists this year. There is good snow, but there is a poor organization of state institutions to operate resorts. I'm beginning to tell you since you didn't share. There hasn't been a pump Mug generator for three years to be able to pass water for Pamporovo. In heavy snow it stops the water and imagine how tourists feel? Should you and someone have discussed this and told you? You don't know? In parallel to this, the Interior Minister is here, the post-factum director of the Directorate has fined... On a public road stand the cars, that is, after you and the regional minister communicate, give next year or now you start thinking that hotel owners will be able to pick up all the cars. If you have to rent a car if you have to move the tourists to the slopes. Pamporovo was blocked and was a guilty car that drove gas or was responsible for the cars. Did you know Pamporovo doesn't have rotors and graders? I won't. Look, institutionally you were standing on Pamporovo, you were debating and the mayors were bragging about you, and the other colleagues interinstitutional were talking, but I have no idea how the health inspection feels now, when all these problems came and there was nowhere to go. My insistence as a member of parliament from this region is: look at all these things on the functioning of the state and statehood there. Since these are not settlements, especially Pamporovo is in two settlements, come Bansko has at least a mayor, the governor of the district to step under you after you do this review, or any authorized person! It's worth a deputy minister to command, but to be empowered, not to mumble! I want and insist that you see all these problems in a complex, so that you can really. bread, livelihood, added value to the economy and tourism, not make a bad image, but on the contrary that tourists come more and more every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u185	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jankova, I assure you that I am familiar with the problem in the "Mugla" and as soon as this happens, we have also been in constant contact with representatives from the resort "Pamporovo" AD and the district manager and we have signaled the regional structures of the water and EVN so that a solution can be found for the construction of this 6-km cable, especially for this case. Apart from that, with the changes in the Tourism Act, which we are about to enter into the National Assembly, we have provided for a special status of the national resorts, precisely for what you are saying that the national resorts should be brought forward because they form the image of Bulgarian tourism. There we have proposed different mechanisms related to the organisation of the movement, including the creation of buffer parking lots, including, if necessary, the summer with golf carts to move only on the territory of the resort, and to park on the side, and when a disaster is expected, to have the opportunity where to withdraw and to make an organization of the movement. All this we have thought coordinated with colleagues from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. As soon as we submit the Bill there, a chapter is related to the status of national resorts, and I hope with your support we will agree on texts that will really benefit the functioning of the resorts, increase the country's image and attract more foreign tourists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Mrs. Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next, there is a question to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov from the National Representative Georgi Gokov concerning tensions around actions of employees of the SDVR in a citizens' initiative held in and before the Embassy of the Bolivar Republic of Venezuela. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Mr. Minister, yes, that is my question, I have quite detailedly described it, I do not know if I will fit in time, but I will say basically what it is about. On January 27, 2019, Sunday, at 13.30 p.m., civil organisations via Facebook are challenging a visit to the Embassy of the Bolivar Republic of Venezuela to support newly elected President Nicholas Maduro Moros. According to the organizers, they informed the embassy over the phone. On January 27th, at 13:30 p.m., about 30 people gather outside the embassy and express their support for the President of Venezuela. Ambassador Her Excellency Orieta Capone has accepted her written letter of support and about 2:00 p.m. the appearance is over. Meanwhile, a patrol has arrived at this hour, possibly from the SDVR. The police take the identity card of one of the organizers and state that they will write a protocol warning him not to commit crimes of a general nature, to comply with the laws and public order. This action makes the participants stay on the street for nearly half an hour and the questions on what basis such action is being taken are answered that they have the right to collect ID cards of all participants. As a result of these actions, everyone stays on the street, the place and tension rises. As long as this happens on the boulevard itself. Patriarch Evtimiy, where the police car is parked, conditions for an accident and disorder of public order are created. The event instead of half an hour is extended for more than an hour. Fortunately, there is no record of any real disturbance in public order, people being hurt or an embassy response on any occasion, but this could have happened. In this regard, Minister, I ask for your answer to the question and regarding the following: on what basis and for what purpose is a warning protocol drawn up for one of the organizers of the visit to the Embassy of Venezuela? What are the instructions for the police's actions in similar cases and whether the Ministry's authorities have made contact with the Venezuelan Embassy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Marinov, Minister of Interior, for an answer. Here you are, Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, on 27 January 2019, around 14.05 p.m., a unit of specialized police forces for the protection and restoration of public order at the Sofia Directorate of Interior, appointed on the task force to secure the security of diplomatic sites on the territory of the capital, while visiting the Embassy of the Bolivar Republic of Venezuela, located in Sofia, Patriarh Evtimiy Blvd., No 27, employees notice a group of about 10 people, according to their report. After a conversation with them, one of the persons is presented as the organizer of the protest event related to events in the Republic of Venezuela and reported that the event was not declared and agreed in Sofia Municipality. On the basis of art. 65 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior the police officers have drawn up a draft warning to the organizer declared, such as their practice and obligation in such cases, in relation to non-compliance with the order for notification of Sofia Municipality, according to art. 8, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manifestations. An oral police order has been issued and the event has been suspended and administrative criminal measures have not been taken. The very gathering of the people, without being informed of the Sofia Municipality, is a violation of public order. Police patrols have applied standard procedure to detect such violations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u191	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear Minister of the Interior, I will tell you why I am asking this question. I am Vice-President of the Friendship Group with the Bolivar Republic of Venezuela, and as far as there is no President of the Group right now, people have turned to me. Because they're looking at this case, maybe the cops were doing their job, if that's really what you're saying this was a tour of the area, and they accidentally stumbled into the gathering of so many people. They weren't much, they were 30 to 50 people tops. If it was an accident, I totally understand it. But if a patrol car was sent there on purpose in the context of what is happening in Venezuela and internationally, including the decision of the Bulgarian government, I am very worried about it. I will accept your claim that this is an accident and I will only pay attention to something which, according to the organizers, is a fact. They informed the Venezuelan Embassy and decided that they could afford to accept such support from a Bulgarian civil organisation or from spontaneously gathered people on Facebook. In addition, they claim to have requested and informed the Municipality of Sofia on 25 January 2019, Friday, after lunch, but the municipality's administration refused to accept the notification due to the late hours at 17.10 p.m. Maybe this does not happen on the phone, it may only be written. But the very fact that there is such a notification can easily be verified whether there is such a call from a mobile or from a phone that is requested and shows the good will of these people to be all right. Also, perhaps you should consider the issue of the Sofia Municipality's notifications, when one is protesting, or such demonstrations in support of someone, are organised on Facebook, how to make these notifications to the Sofia Municipality. Thank you for your reply and I will repeat once again that I very much hope that I repeat this because I do not want to politicize things and turn them in the direction of.............. the government's position on this issue..........I.....I.............I hope this was an accident and they did their job professionally, as the Ministry of Interior has written in the books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Will there be a hole, Minister? Here's your douche bag!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u194	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gökov, I will specify that it is not by chance that the patrol is there, but due to the performance of the duties scheduled on schedule, and they have exactly such a task to guard the territory where embassies and residences are located. This is exactly how they come across, and not for the first time, cases that are not regulated in Sofia Municipality, but happen on the territory and in front of embassies. So colleagues absolutely professionally and, of course, within their duties and powers have taken these actions. With regard to cases where events are organised on Facebook, they are daily. You can see that more and more often it is believed that when the event is organized on Facebook, it is under the law. You know that the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manifestations clearly signed the procedures, so it is also in this direction that police officers first take action to warn. In itself, this protocol does not have legal consequences if it does not subsequently violate public order. They issue oral orders and, in this case, citizens have taken this order into account and this has not resulted in administrative criminal sanctions and the case has been closed under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. Let us thank the Interior Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. We're moving on to the last two questions. They belong to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. First is the asking by Violeta Jeleva and Nadia Klisurska about the vision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding changes in labour legislation. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u196	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Minister! At the end of last year, when commenting on an increase in the night work supplement during a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, you committed yourself to initiating a public dialogue on reforming labour law and this issue was to come into this discussion, although the Regulation which regulates night work does not concern the Labour Code. In essence, rather a loophole is opened for employers' proposals, which are aimed at liberalising the labour market or more insecurity for workers. In September 2018, the Bulgarian Industrial Association announced that it began writing a new Labour Code because it is archaic and does not correspond to the current economic realities. The employers' organizations have expressed their intention to discuss a comprehensive new project to impose more flexible forms of employment. I will share some of the demands in order to understand further in our questioning what it is about: requests to introduce new employment models and increase the flexibility of the labour law on overtime and to change it from 150 hours to 300 hours per year; revising existing restrictions on flexible forms of employment to provide as a separate contract the hourly so-called labour contract with zero hours; increasing from three to six months of the period during which the employer can introduce part-time for economic reasons within the calendar year; to specify maternity leave and parental leave for child rearing. And another series of changes, veiled as a flexible labour market or rather, we let the spirit out of the bottle and we will introduce perhaps questionable but supposedly good intentions. The Labour Code is a fundamental legal act in labour law and in labour law and in practice affects directly significant social groups and fundamental parts of society. The upcoming changes are important for citizens and that is why we ask and ask you in the hopes of answering the question: What is the vision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and is it planning a large-scale reform of labour law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Petkov, for an answer, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, first of all, I would like to point out that Bulgarian labour law, including the Labour Code, respects the fundamental social rights laid down in the European Social Charter and in the Community Charter on the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers. Our legislation is brought into line with European legislation in the field of labour and the conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Its regular updating is dictated by needs outlined in practice and by changes in international law in the field of labour. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy established a working group with the participation of representatives of all recognised social partners at national level, which develops changes in the Labour Code. The changes were initiated by the Ministry in order to implement the priorities set out in the Government's Management Programme, as well as commitments related to a decision of the Council of Ministers, and also in order to answer questions raised in the practice of implementing the Labour Code. During the two meetings held with the management of employers' organizations on this topic in January, other issues were also discussed. In addition to the changes initiated by the Ministry of Labour, the social partners are discussed with a large volume and of a different nature their proposals. The aim that we have set is to identify mutually acceptable solutions which, if agreed, should be included in the mandate of the working group. That's why there's a meeting coming up next week. The main proposals of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for amendments to the Labour Code, which are put to the attention of the working group, are aimed at: 1. improvement of social dialogue; 2. guaranteeing the right of workers in employment in the public administration of representative clothing; 3. improving the regulation of the aggregated calculation of working hours; 4. Regulation of the possibility for social partners to negotiate a longer duration of overtime up to 300 hours within one calendar year, while maintaining the overall applicable and up to 150 hours per year. The general prohibition on overtime shall also be maintained; 5. Regulation of a time period for storing documents in the employment record of employees; 6. improvement of administrative criminal provisions in the field of labour law on the basis of previous analysis. Since you are asking me about the vision of the Ministry for changes in the Labour Code, what I have listed so far is rather the short-term changes that are on the agenda, but to look further, I would like to inform you that within the framework of the future of the work under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is preparing an analysis of the compliance of the regulations with the needs of changes in the organization of labour, which will be the basis for legislative changes, ensuring an adequate business environment and protecting the fundamental rights of employees in regulating the new forms of labour. In addition, work is to be done on transposing two new directives in the field of labour law: the directive on the balance between the professional and private life of parents and carers and the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions. To be quite precise, these are still draft directives that are at the final stage of discussion within the framework of closing trialogs. This, in our view, is the adoption of these directives, will impose a new debate and a change of legislation in order to address all new issues, including parental leave, flexible forms of work, changes in working conditions, etc., but this is something imminent, with a horizon for the next or the next year. To conclude, it is important to note that the discussions currently taking place on changes in legislation do not foresee the development of a new Labour Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u199	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u200	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I'm listening and I can't believe my ears! I don't understand why you, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, are allowing for a cardinal revision of the Labour Code? Listening rather to the employers at the moment who have to give in order to obtain this, we see it from the exits of the terminals hundreds of young people of working age, I believe that you are the responsible person who should seek ways to protect, to ensure that, for the sustainability of the labour rights of Bulgarian workers through Bulgarian legislation and through your policies. There is no way to turn a blind eye to the screaming low incomes of a large percentage of the Bulgarian population, we cannot ignore the sustainable percentage of people who are permanently unemployed, economically inactive, the large number of unemployed who are not entitled to benefits, the escalating labour deficit for high and medium-sized personnel. At the moment, there are definitely texts in the Labour Code that are discriminatory and disagree with the European directives, which you must submit as Minister tomorrow. Unfortunately, however, with what you pointed out as an answer to our question in its first part, and the letter you sent to the national representative organisations remains a number of questions and they speak precisely the opposite. What do I mean? You do not offer the necessary changes to limit the use of night labor and higher time rates. Since 2007, the rate for night work has not been revised. We have made such proposals for amendments to the Labour Code, but this does not come into the vision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding night work. You are only talking about the possibility of using free food, which is regulated at the moment. We have long been in breach of the European legislation of Directive 2003/87, in which the deadline for the aggregated calculation of working time is four months. In our Labour Code is six months, and in your letter you refer to the possibility of an extension to 12 months, which is one of the employers' demands. You are also talking about preserving the time of overtime for up to 150 hours in one year, but the possibility of a longer duration of 300 hours through collective bargaining rather than talking about reduction. Dear Minister, my two additional questions are: why have these discriminatory proposals not been tabled so far, and why is the discussion you are having at the moment not at a higher expert level, not including in the working group of MPs and other experts that I think will better complement what you want to do as a revision of labour law? The other is related to the first part of the question by colleague Jeleva, who commented on the employers' proposals...................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u201	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, the questions you have asked me give me the opportunity to address our proposals more thoroughly. Of course, at the same time try to answer the questions asked. Regarding your question of night labor. Here I would like to specify that the additional remuneration for night work is defined in the Regulation on the structure and organisation of the salary. We are looking at changes to the Labour Code. So there is no way we can make a proposal to increase the additional remuneration when we talk about changes to the Labour Code. It's about the night's work. On the part of the social partners, one of the trade unions, there is a proposal regarding the length of the night work, which, as I told you, all proposals will be discussed and if there is agreement on them, we will therefore recognise them and the working group will include them in its mandate. With regard to the reference period for the aggregated calculation of working hours. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has proposed that the time limit be from one to four months in accordance with the Directive. I strongly emphasise this, as we have so far benefited from a period which has been given by the directive for a longer period in legislation. Now our proposal is to make this reference period from one to four hours, but again in accordance with the Working Time Aspects Directive, we have proposed in order to extend the field of collective bargaining if agreed between the social partners, the reference period can be up to 12 hours. It's the same with regard to overtime. Its duration, respectively, preserving all the prohibitions and limits in the Labour Code, again the proposal is that its maximum annual duration may be extended only through a collective employment contract again with the participation of the social partners. These are the proposals, once again, which are in line with the intention of developing labour legislation in our management programme in the direction of strengthening social dialogue, its promotion, there are also such proposed texts in what is discussed by the working group, while at the same time improving the working time arrangements, breaks and holidays. I think I answered your first question, adding what has been brought to the attention of the working group, which includes representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the requested participants from the national representative organisations of employees and employers. So the working group is an expert, three-party format, and its mandate is determined by meetings and discussions held between the management of national representative organisations and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Two such meetings were held, next in the day after tomorrow. I think that at this stage, when there is one expert work, there is no need to include other participants in the working group. Of course, we are as transparent as possible in what is being discussed, which is being discussed in the working group. The social partners are represented by the experts they have proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u203	Thank you, dear Minister. For your treatment please, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, first of all, I will start with the comment that you have made on our first question about night labor. Regarding the night's work, we also asked such a question to you. You replied in writing by saying that it is good for the night work supplement to be regulated in labour law, this is from your written answer, and then we had a legislative initiative when considering the state budget. We had a proposal to do exactly as you said in your written reply. Therefore, I cannot agree here that you are now avoiding this answer and are not definitely answering whether there will be a change. I hope, further in consideration in the working groups, that the problem will find an answer. I will then comment on your proposals because you replied that at this stage the proposals are only to amend the Labour Code and they will be made by 31 March. The undisputed are those related to the benefits for civil servants for free food during night shifts, for representative clothing, for drinks and for food, but it is not acceptable for the social minister to stand by the idea of employers and to accept the idea of increasing the possibility of overtime from 150 to 300 hours, so even, as you say, only in the case of collective bargaining. Because I think this is still an opportunity to avoid this option, to avoid this collective bargaining and to have cases where, without the consent, I can say because they will be forced, but it will not be official, for workers to work more extra hours of overtime. And the other thing that is not acceptable is the possibility of increasing the total working hours to 12 months. I think that you should not be allowed to stand by these ideas, I say again, and this is the application of our parliamentary group from the stands - controversial things - which we will insist on not being adopted in such a discussion bill to amend the Labour Code. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So the subject is important and you'll let me, you'll add me another minute or two. You mentioned the Future of Work. It has been concluded February 2018 and ends 2020 and, as you mentioned it, I would like to quote from it only one sentence: The Employment Models have changed significantly over the past decade and jobs based on stable employment will represent an increasing proportion of the total number of jobs in the coming years. Here, in this project, the Ministry accepts the claim that sustainable employment will decrease completely. This is from the analysis and from the project's activities. Such new forms of work, defined according to the requirement of Eurofound, are the sharing of employees and temporary management contracts.............................................................................................. You said there would be consensus, but perhaps this consensus already exists in advance, judging from what has been stated in this euro project worth 1 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u205	Get it over with, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u206	I don't want to think that because of one project, and because of the resources that would be absorbed, we will open the door to proposals that will damage most of the workers. Here I want to end with one: we will observe this in the changes to the bill you are proposing, in fact, the amendment of the Labour Code, because we are witnessing how, between first and second readings, questionable proposals are being proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u207	Finish up, Mrs. Jeleva. Two minutes on top of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u208	I doubt how much a Labour Code written by employers will protect workers' rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u209	Thank you very much. The next question is the last for today's parliamentary control and the last for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. It is a question from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova on the National Strategy for the Child 2019 " 2030." Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, The National Strategy for the Child 2019 project has been published for public discussion on the website of the State Agency for Child Protection. The interest in this document is great and that is quite understandable. We all have a responsibility to future generations to prepare them for the challenges of life, to grow in a safe and healthy environment, to be educated and responsible, to continuously develop their skills and knowledge, to acquire competence for full inclusion in society. The creation of the new strategic document is a complex process, and in this regard my question to you is: how is the work on its preparation organised, are the opinions of the parents, experts from the practice and academic circles taken into account, and most importantly, what will this document contribute to the development and future of our children, what is its vision and mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u211	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, the National Strategy for the Child is a framework political document that reflects the overall vision of the Bulgarian state and civil society for the development of the next generations of citizens of the country. The approach to the development of this strategic document follows the international commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria in the area of the rights of the child by implementing the national priorities for overcoming the demographic crisis and social fragmentation by guaranteeing the rights of the child and by improving its quality of life. The vision of the new strategic document is expressed by every child in Bulgaria, at every stage of his childhood, to live and develop his potential in an integrated, healthy, secure and encouraging environment that guarantees his rights and well-being, providing support to parents and professionals who take care of children. The strategy's mission is to mobilise, finance, integrate and direct the efforts of state institutions and civil society towards improving the environment, to increase the life prospects of each child to realise its capabilities. After a series of consultations with representatives of the academic circles, specialists from the child protection system and experts from different spheres, an approach was chosen for planning activities and measures that follows the life cycle of the child from 0 to 18 years. This approach allows state support to be directed towards children and families at the exact moment when they need it, in accordance with the age characteristics of the child. In this way, it responds more adequately to its needs during the different periods of childhood. The formation of the main areas of impact is the result of a broad advisory process with all stakeholders and intensive work of the interdepartmental working group of the National Council for Child Protection in the period May-December of last year, and based on the conclusions of the ex-post evaluation of the previous National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018. The new strategy has been developed through the implementation of a comprehensive approach in accordance with good administrative practices for the preparation of national strategic documents, preliminary advisory process with professional organisations, academics, parental organizations, NGOs and children. For this purpose, a working group was established at the National Council for Child Protection, which includes representatives of state institutions and 12 non-profit legal entities for child protection activities. The planned measures are included in five key key areas of impact, namely: health and healthy lifestyles; family environment, alternative care and standard of living; quality education for all children; secure environment and access to justice; and the last sphere of recreation and leisure, i.e. children's everyday life. They are defined as a result of the proposals received by stakeholders and of an in-depth analysis of national priorities and areas of impact and of the commitments arising from international documents. The strategy is based on the child-centred approach that puts the child and his best interests at the heart of policies, programmes and services for children and families. This approach considers the child to be a holder of rights rather than a passive object of adult influence. One of the main starting points is the understanding that development and support to children should be aimed at developing the competences needed for life in the 21st century. The key for the development of the child is the development of skills for learning, for correct expression in Bulgarian language, for communication in foreign languages, for expression through creativity, for development of initiative and entrepreneurship, natural sciences, mathematics and information technologies, social and civic competences. Their development is also associated with supporting sustainable development, a healthy lifestyle and sport. I believe that the process of creating the document was transparent, with the desire to take into account the views of as many interested parties as possible. I would like to stress that the opinion of the children was also heard in this process by including the Council of Children with the State Agency for Child Protection and by taking into account the results of the sociological studies carried out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u213	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I asked this question because during the last week in the public domain, I noticed that certain parent associations opposed and disagreed with some of the activities envisaged in the document. How do you explain this reaction and what message would you send to these parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u215	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, we treat all opinions with consideration and respect and all proposals received within the framework of the current public discussion of the draft strategy. Of course, after the deadline has expired, all proposals received, opinions on the Draft Strategy will be considered accordingly. Indeed, the Project Strategy has sparked great public interest, a large number of opinions have been received, and I explain this with a public understanding that the child is a high value in society and it is normal when we draw a strategy for policies towards the child in a horizon of 13 years to have an interest in this document. However, at the same time, I would like to emphasise that we are not uncritical about many statements regarding the Draft Document, some of which I believe are arbitrary and manipulative. In this regard, what I would like to emphasise is that the strategy does not in any way oppose the child and the family and the strategy cannot take away parental rights. On the contrary, it aims to assist parents in raising children by developing their own parental competence. The strategy sees the child's well-being as inextricably related to the well-being of the family and with support for the parents. I am convinced that the discussion on this document will continue and before the next stages in its development it is normal to cause interest. We are open to taking into account all the opinions and opinions that come out in the context of the public discussion, and I would like to stress once again that in the preparation of the draft document, which lasted more than half a year, the aim was to attract all interested parties to present their vision of how parents, the state and the non-governmental sector will join efforts for a better future for children in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-08.u217	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question for Minister Petkov. Let us thank the Minister for participating in today's parliamentary control. Due to the exhaustion of parliamentary control, I am closing today's session. The next regular plenary session is on February 13th, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m.
