ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. We begin with the first item of today's agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT PERSONAL DATA FOR 2018 The opinion will introduce us to Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u2	Madam President, before I begin with the Report, I would like, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the plenary hall of Ventsislav Karadzhov, Chairman of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, Tsanko Tslov, Member of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, and Desislava Toshkova, Secretary General of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Voting 137 MPs: 132, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u4	"COMMODITY" on the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2018, No 920-00-2, submitted by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data on 28 January 2018. At its regular meeting on 27 February 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2018, No 920-00-2, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 28 January 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Commission for Personal Data Protection: Tsanko Tsolov, member of the KZLD, and Mrs. Desislava Toshkova, Secretary-General. The report was presented by Tsanko Tsolov, who noted that 2018 is characterised by two significant challenges to the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the start of the practical implementation of the new legal framework in the field of personal data protection, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016. (Regulation). In order to raise public awareness of key issues of the General Data Protection Regulation on the institution's website, a specific section has been set up dedicated to the Regulation, which publishes explanatory materials and recommendations on its implementation, including guidance from the CDC, the European Commission and the European Data Protection Committee. In addition, two information brochures aimed at clarifying key issues to support the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation have been prepared. In the reporting period the CDC together with the Ministry of Interior started the process of public consultation of the draft law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Act (ZIZZLD) in order to introduce measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the transposition of Directive 2016/680 into the Bulgarian legislation. With the application of the Regulation, the basis for registration of personal data controllers (ALDs) is removed. In this respect, with effect from 25 May 2018, the CDC has ceased all proceedings under Chapter 3 of the CDC. During the reporting period, the Commission has received more than 784 complaints, with the highest share of complaints related to telecommunications - 135 complaints following requests for video surveillance, banks and credit institutions, executive, media and others. The amount of property penalties and fines imposed during the accounting year is 246 thousand. 500 leva. The number of consultations of citizens for the previous year has been increased, taking into account that they are becoming increasingly active in the search for assistance and clarification on the implementation of the new legal framework introduced by the General Data Protection Regulation, and for the period after 25 May the requests made to the CDC are over 2000 pieces. During the reporting period, a number of questions regarding the provision of personal data (personal card) and whether it constitutes processing of personal data have also been raised before the CDC. The Commission's principle answers are that, under the provisions of the Regulation, the processing of personal data is lawful where necessary to comply with the legal obligation applied to controllers of personal data. As a result of the Commission's control activities, 239 valid acts, 4 mandatory regulations and 7 acts for the establishment of administrative infringements are drawn up. The amount of penalties imposed by the CDC and administrative acts issued by it for 2018 amounts to 365 thousand. 300 leva. The amounts collected in 2018 in respect of CDC decisions amounted to 165 thousand. 200 BGN, as 74 500 BGN. of which were collected by the National Revenue Agency in force. In carrying out its obligations under the Law on Electronic Communications (ECA), the Commission shall maintain a register of data destruction protocols received by undertakings with a view to carrying out effective current and subsequent controls such as the number of undertakings which fulfil their obligation to provide monthly LEC protocols for the destroyed data during the accounting year is on average 66 per month. The total number of requests for access to traffic data submitted to the Commission as a supervisory authority amounts to 65 420, which is comparable to that for the previous year. In short, the objectives and priorities of the CDC for 2019 related to securing the Commission's activities with the necessary human and technical resources, the adoption of the regulations on personal data protection, the promotion of the activities of the European Data Protection Committee, as well as the continuation of efforts in the area of personal data protection for Schengen accession and the Visa Information System of the European Union, and others were presented. The Commission has also envisaged strengthening international cooperation in relation to the requirements of the General Regulation on data protection for the one-stop shop. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the European Parliament, without a vote against the European Parliament and abstention, supported the submitted Annual Report on the Commission's activities for the protection of personal data for 2018, No 920"2 submitted by the Commission for the protection of personal data on 28 January 2018 and proposed to the National Assembly the following draft decision: Project! DECISION: adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2018. The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 28 February 2019 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Colleagues, until Mr. Karadzhov arrives to make an exhibition, I would like to inform you that from 10:00 to 10.40 am I will give my rest on the occasion of Krasimir Uzunov's death. Worship will begin at 10:00 a.m. at the Military Club, so all colleagues who want to pay their respects to Mr. Uzunov will be able to go to this period. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, 2018 was quite charged to the Commission for the protection of personal data, if I may say so, because apart from the Bulgarian Presidency, in which the Commission actively participates, the change in the legislative framework was to take place, namely the entry into force of Regulation No 679 for the protection of personal data, the so-called General Regulation, which had to be implemented in all 28 Member States and practically required serious legislative and organisational preparation by the Commission for the protection of personal data. As you know, before the closure of the Register of Administrators, in Bulgaria there were over 350 thousand to 400 thousand administrators who are natural and legal persons and process personal data for business purposes. This requirement of the Registration Regulation required a complete adjustment of the personal data processing system in Bulgaria, including a very serious explanatory campaign what companies and individuals registered in Bulgaria should do so as to meet the new increased requirements of the Regulation. The regulation, by the way, did confer many powers on individuals to seek their rights when their personal data was processed by companies for specific business purposes and provision of services. Public authorities, including local authorities and local self-government, have been involved since 2002 as administrators. There also arose a very serious issue which needs to be discussed and resolved through a serious professional debate, namely the extent to which municipal councils are administrators, the extent to which municipalities carry out this activity at the expense of the municipal council. Since you know that municipal councils have their own activities and powers, in carrying out these activities and powers they process and personal data. I will briefly address the main challenges that were before the Commission in 2018, namely the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the practical implementation of the new legal framework in the area of personal data protection. Within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency, the Personal Data Protection Commission took over the DAPIX Working Group, i.e. the group dealing with the protection of personal data and the exchange of information in the European Union. The main challenge was to respond to the politically suspended regulation on the processing of personal data in the European institutions, which was to enter into force at the same time as the general regulation, namely on 25 May 2018. In the framework of the Estonian Presidency, however, this regulation was blocked because of the disagreement of Member States such as Germany, France with the proposals of the European Parliament, namely the creation of an additional chapter in it concerning the processing of personal data for operational purposes, i.e. for the purposes of the authorities of the interior ministries, defence, including for the purposes of Europol, Frontex, Eurojust, which is why Bulgaria had to present an adequate strategy within these six months in order for this political-legal problem which had arisen to find its solution. As you know, on 23 May 2018, within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency, the European Parliament and the Council reached an agreement on issues on which there was not even political understanding before. This was indeed a result that enabled the Ministry of Justice to conclude the Eurojust Regulation, including to propose changes concerning Europol and Frontex in the area of personal data processing and thus to create legal clarity in Europe as to how data should be collected, processed and stored not only for business purposes and institutional purposes, but also for the purposes of the investigation, including in the case of cross-border terrorist activities. With regard to the implementation of the new legal framework, you know that the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data together with the Ministry of Interior has been working for more than one year on the establishment of a Draft Law amending the Personal Data Protection Act. The main objective of this bill was to bring together Directive 680, which concerns the processing of personal data for the purposes of justice and law enforcement, together with the General Regulation 679, which lays down the rules for the processing of personal data by businesses and public institutions in relation to the protection of individuals. These two documents, which the European Parliament and the Council adopted, had to be united in one law for the sake of clarity and harmonisation of the internal legal framework in Bulgaria. For the Personal Data Protection Commission, together with the Ministry, it was a real challenge. The working group we created included the authorities of the Ministry of Defence, of the DANS, also of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to clarify the need for harmonisation of the framework in its overall change. In the last few months, you have also witnessed that we have been very successful in building up existing legislation since 2002. I can tell you that this law, which has been made, is indeed between some of the best laws for the protection of individuals, including the way in which businesses and public institutions should process personal data. This law was able to upgrade not only the basic legislative framework, but also the practice of the Bulgarian courts, international courts and the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. I would say that in this way our law actually meets the current requirements for processing personal data and the protection of the privacy of Bulgarian citizens. Another thing that really deserves your attention is the organization of the International Conference of Data Protection and Privacy Authorities. This is the largest conference that gathers all the supervisory authorities around the world, including business, in one place, so that the next five years can be strategically clarified what are the expectations of the business, respectively by the supervisory authorities, in applying the new norms and legislation. This conference in Bulgaria has not yet been organized. We made it together with the European Data Protection Supervisor. This is the body that monitors the European institutions' processing of data by all European institutions, including European Union services such as Europol, Eurojust. For Bulgaria, I think it was a really great honour that the European overseer agreed to organise this big forum with us, because in this way we received not only a chance to see Bulgaria's and the Commission's personal data protection capabilities, but also to influence these processes, which were new to Europe. I would say that they also refer to the overall processing of personal data on this scale. More than 250 professionals participated in Bulgaria within three days from over 45 countries. More than 50 international lecturers participated in the debate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u8	It was a good initiative that achieved its goal. As regards the handling of complaints by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, it has already been mentioned that last year's complaints have been increased by more than a third. Unlike last year, when they were 480, this year they are already 784, i.e. 800 complaints that the Commission has dealt with. Here we should add that, in addition to complaints, the Commission also examines signals. They're in the order of about 2,000 last year. These are the signals that citizens send to the Commission to verify unlawful action. The Commission shall rule in another order and not by decision on these complaints. Natural persons and their rights are guaranteed precisely by this activity of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. We have a serious increase in the activity of Bulgarian citizens in search of funds to protect their rights. I believe that part of this new process is precisely the activity of the Commission for the protection of personal data by clarifying the new rules. They were quite complex and, as the Regulation requires, they had to be explained so that they could be understood by both the business and the Bulgarian citizens. As far as business is concerned, over 6,000 administrators from the public and private sectors participated in the Commission's explanatory campaign, which lasted within four months last year, starting as early as February and ending the month of September 2018. In general, the Commission considers that this explanatory campaign must become a permanent clarification tool. We will focus on sectoral associations, i.e. sectoral business representatives, in order to be able to reach a larger range of private legal entities, i.e. a range of companies that process personal data, as we understand that 6000 participants, although not much compared to 400 thousand who process personal data, they cover a sufficiently wide range of this business. However, it needs to be reached both the small and the medium business and to clarify the new requirements for the processing of personal data. In this aspect of my speech, I would like to emphasise that the Commission has undertaken a very active activity, encouraging sectoral associations to develop codes of conduct for members of their associations, namely to produce, in accordance with the specifics of their business, the specific rules to be complied with by the general regulation. The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, no matter how many good experts there are in this area, cannot know the specifics of, for example, the transport business or the telecommunications business. There's really a lot of problems there. I'll point them out later. In the transport business a serious problem appears with the video surveillance, namely the so-called video registrars, which are required to be placed on the cars. These video recorders film unlimitedly without any prior attitude of the individuals, anyone who is in front of the video recorder himself. Transport business wants clear rules to be made here so that they can collect these data, to whom to provide them and in what volumes. Speaking of the types of complaints that have been submitted to the Commission, I must tell you that the most there are in the telecommunications sector, they are about 140 last year. Second, the complaints about the video surveillance are immediately followed. There, complaints have reached almost 100 and have repeatedly exceeded the number of complaints received last year. Complaints against banks and credit institutions shall also be raised. There are also a lot of complaints against the authorities of the public authority (about 50), and last year there were complaints against labour insurance services, education, judiciary and media. I will not dwell on the amount of sanctions imposed. The President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Tsvetanov has already mentioned the size of the sanctions imposed and collected by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. I would just like to stress that, indeed, in the area of telecommunications and video surveillance next year, the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data will make more efforts for a public debate to clarify the processing of personal data, as it turned out that video surveillance now covers absolutely all sectors of life not only of business. Through the digitalization of the services offered by telecommunications, they actually process an extremely large volume of personal data, including metadata concerning the location of the physical person, who he has spoken to, in what time zones operators want to process further for their own purposes, in order to offer the so-called personalised service to individuals and companies. Last year, new requirements were introduced for personal data controllers, namely to inform the supervisory authorities about any personal data breach. It's a new obligation. It is usually carried out by submitting information within 72 hours of the occurrence of the infringement. I have to tell you that before there was no such obligation to administrators and we were quite unpleasantly surprised that the violations actually happen on a daily basis. All the supervisory authorities in Europe, we have done a survey on such requests for a security breach, there are 45 thousand. In total, complaints filed across the European Union against controllers and processors of personal data exceed 900 thousand. The next step that the Commission will have to take, perhaps this is where we should include the e-government agency, is to prepare specific rules for the public sector. We also need to discuss the issue of security in the processing of personal data, especially in the electronic management and digitalisation of services. [[Reply from DPS.]] Okay, I'll, uh...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u9	No, continue your statement. Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u10	I will conclude with what concerns the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2019. The Commission's efforts will be aimed at securing the activities of the body with the necessary human and technical resources in the area of personal data protection, which concerns the new obligation of the Commission for the protection of personal data to carry out certified training of data protection officers and, in general, personal data controllers, which is indeed a very good opportunity to increase professional capacity in the area of personal data protection in the private and public sectors. Also with us, after the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act, there will be adoption and discussion of the legislation in the area of personal data protection. The main challenge for us will be the new focus of the control activities that the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data will have to carry out. The General Regulation already requires that, in cross-border cases of processing of personal data, the processing of more than one Member State, where an administrator offers goods and services and processes personal data to different citizens of the European Union, joint checks are carried out in the event of an infringement, as it may already designate a leading authority. That is, if he has designated a leading authority in Austria and the infringement has been committed in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian supervisory authority will join this infringement and may participate in the on-the-spot verification, for example in Austria, to check what technical and organisational measures have been taken by the company administrator for processing personal data. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm available for questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you are, Mr. Nunev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Karadjov, from your presentation and from the report it became clear that the complaints that have been made to the Commission have increased by one third, i.e. over 700. I was impressed that the increase is mostly in the telecommunications and video surveillance sector. The second is a particularly sensitive topic. If possible, say in greater detail: what are the reasons for the increase of this type of complaints that have been identified during the reporting period?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Mr. Nunev's lines? I can't see. Let's wait if there are any other questions. Colleagues, any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Manev. Mr. Karadjov, if you'd like to sit in the back, and then you can come in, because there might be a few more questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u14	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Karadjov, from the report you introduced us to, and it has become clear from your statement that you have other problems. In relation to these problems, which I think are deeply related to the lack of good experts and good specialists at the moment in the labour market, if we can say so, which ensure the need for experts in the protection of personal data, are you prepared to answer my question: how does the Commission intend to work on the topic of training such personnel? I believe that the training of specialists and personal data protection experts is the road that can solve both the leak of trained specialists from the Commission itself and find a way to deal with the recent issue of, I will use quotes, market trainers, who have no idea what trainings they are leading, but collect huge fees from businesses for teaching them in things that they themselves do not understand. In this regard, I ask you very much, if you have the opportunity, introduce the MPs, and through them and the society, how do you plan to work in this direction, will the Commission itself do the training, will these trainings be for experts who are on the market, i.e. on the ground, or will we be looking for the option for which we have commented to train trainers, in general? That's my question to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Any other questions or speeches? I can't see. Mr. Karadjov, please respond to Mr. Nunev and Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nunev, Mr. Manev, regarding video surveillance and telecommunications, the problems are in the area of personal data processing when mobile operators start collecting their obligations for the services provided and when they conclude initial contracts with individuals. The requirement of the Regulation is when mobile operators transfer personal data for subsequent processing and not to collect those obligations themselves. They have to ask for the consent of the individuals. In addition, when carrying out additional advertising of their activities, it must be against voluntary consent of the natural person and not against coercion or against the application of additional bonuses by the mobile operator. Now let me focus on the telecommunications problem. The main number of complaints is related precisely to the recovery of claims, and to the old claims that mobile operators inherited from companies that most likely purchased them, merged with them. However, they do not have contracts for the provision of these services and have only information in their books that these persons have ever paid their services. In these cases, mobile operators pressured by their shareholders begin to collect the obligations of individuals who happened 20 years ago and cannot prove the reason on which they process personal data except that 10 years ago this person was their client. This problem also benefits companies to collect claims, as they buy debts at very low prices and start to bother individuals with their repayment. Natural persons seek their protection and find it in the Commission for the protection of personal data by filing complaints, as the procedure before the Commission is free and can rely on us as an administrative body to collect all the necessary facts and clarify the circumstances concerning the processing of personal data. Another major problem with mobile operators is non-compliance with the obligations to identify persons who purchase prepaid cards. You know, in fact, these prepaid cards, when purchased by individuals to a large extent, are then used by so-called phone cheaters. We have such cases identified by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in Petrich, in Ruse, in Svishtov, in Silistra, where it is clearly shown that the person against whom the execution is directed and looking for account payment obligations has not actually signed such contracts. In this situation, there is no way for the operator to have reason to process his personal data and to seek payment from the person when he has not even taken care to determine who exactly signed the contract. As far as video surveillance is concerned, the subject is quite large-scale. You know, and in my main statement, I stressed that video surveillance is no longer used only in business, but is also used by individuals in order to protect their privacy, property and family. Here, individuals are already, because of not so high prices of these video surveillance devices, en masse installing cameras. However, the cameras film public places, properties of other private persons, and hence there is a very serious problem, especially in the buildings that are floor property, when the floor property has not decided at all to carry out video surveillance for the purpose of protecting the properties in it. The other problem is when private individuals place cameras on their private houses, which, however, film a serious part of the property of the neighbors, streets, public places, and claim to do so for the purpose of guarding their own cars or other movable property parked outside the property itself. However, the Law says that they can be used to protect individuals and their families, not real estate, which is in front of the property itself. That's where the problems come from. However, problems arise also from the point of view of the fact that the business mass wants to use video surveillance in the offices is widely used video surveillance. Some places do not even comply with the requirement that there is no video surveillance in the rest rooms or, for example, in the sanitary premises. These are basic principles that say that personal data should be processed at its minimum, according to the purpose they want to achieve. The goal is a normal working process and to end the thefts, not to monitor whether the person is in the toilet, or what he does during his rest time. This is his personal space and time. Other problems are precisely with video recorders in the transport sector. Indeed, there must be a solution, as well as public filming in municipalities. We understand that there is a public interest and there is prevention of crime, but there must also be a clear order which is not currently signed. There must be a public debate and a clear national decision on how this video surveillance is made, what can be collected, which authorities can be provided with this information, as we have also had complaints when video surveillance is being carried out and because of a scratched car someone gives away the information from this video surveillance and it is not known how it was used and in what volumes this information is available. The second question: how does the Commission intend to address the problem of lack of personnel in the private sector as regards the protection of personal data? This is really a very serious question. We have repeatedly proposed a solution for it, as from the moment it was realized that there would be a new law that would be able and empowering the Commission to impose sanctions up to 40 million. BGN, firstly, there was some panic mainly in the private sector, and, secondly, they took advantage, as well as the fellow MP Manev said, a training was started, I would say a kilo. The training of people who would like to learn about personal data protection has reached their average price of 165 BGN. an hour. Keep in mind that the level of professional expertise and knowledge was not extremely high and there is no way that a person who has spent his whole life dealing with human resources and has now appointed him to be a personal data protection officer for three hours at 165 BGN, to become an expert in the field of personal data protection, as the data protection officer. It must be able to give an opinion and advise the Head of State concerned what he must do in order for the personal data to be legally processed and for these large sanctions that we are talking about to prevent them from happening. We believe that both forms of training should be applied, namely: direct training of experts, as well as training of trainers. I am extremely grateful to the decision adopted by the National Assembly and has enabled the Commission for Personal Data Protection to carry out certified training. It will most likely be three months with several tests and a final test to determine whether the person has actually acquired the necessary professional knowledge and skills for these three months so as to advise decision makers, namely their direct managers, when they undertake certain business activities related to processing personal data. The Commission has already developed a strategy on this new obligation and is working on the technical parameters of an online training system for these persons, as they are many. Before that, according to the old law, we had calculated it at 45,000, but now under the new rules, their number is likely to fall by half. Nevertheless, they are a significant number of experts, both the public and the private sector need. At the moment we do not see serious training and at all serious attention on building the expertise of these data protection officers. The other thing that is important here is that the Commission received such a building as a training centre, but at this stage, due to the late adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act, this activity is underfunded. Of course, after the entry into force of the Personal Data Protection Act and the adoption of the obligation for certified training, we will do things to the Ministry of Finance precisely in order for this building to become an active training centre and to be able to fulfil these expected obligations with the adoption of the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u17	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Are there any other Members of Parliament who would like to take part in the report under consideration? If there aren't any, let's move on to the vote. I recall the text of the decision: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Activity Report of the Personal Data Protection Commission for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Activity Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2018 Please vote! Vote 97 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 5. The proposal has been adopted and with this the proposed solution for consideration. Dear Members of Parliament, we interrupt until 10.40 for the reasons announced by the Chairman of the Assembly. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u18	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get back to work. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mareshki. You have the floor, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u19	Madam President, Mr President, honourable Members! We aren't jealous. We're even happy. [[Elevator bell dings]] When we launch a useful idea for people and some opponent immediately stands out and starts bragging: "How long have I been saying this, how long have I written it, and so on. Something similar is happening these days on the occasion of our proposal for financial incentives for children of educated and adult parents. It's about fighting illiterate and underage births. I will remind you that this is enshrined in our management programme, and as soon as we enter Parliament in the autumn of 2017, we have introduced this measure for discussion. The so-called Patriots jumped that it was discrimination, that there was no money, and so this otherwise good idea of ours wasn't accepted. Do we need to remind you that the OP has a deputy prime minister in the demographic crisis? In two years, we didn't see any activity in that direction. The answer to: Have they done anything in these two years? And now, all of a sudden, they wake up. Shortly before the election date, IMRO instructed its municipal councillors in some cities to submit such proposals, but with offensively low amounts, for example 200 BGN. for the first child of a parent with secondary education. IMRO MP, who is normally on duty to monitor my and the Volya appearances and to react, if we mention the name Karakachanov or their party, yesterday he started explaining that, you see, he from the distant... be very careful from the distant 1999, since the end of the last century, is working on the demographic problem. Twenty years this man has been doing hard work to solve the problems with the demographic crisis in Bulgaria and it is only deepening. I wish he hadn't worked. But now, even more carefully, let's see how it worked. He organized ten conferences for 20 years and published five books. It's a hell of a job. The young families must have felt the great benefit of the hard work for the 20 years that this IMRO MP did, and their entire party. People with several mandates, as we have said since 1999, and since before that, come out to explain to us how much they have done. On behalf of the Bulgarian people, who very well know what the situation is right now and the fact that you yourself say that you will continue to work to do something, we say to you: you have done nothing and that is the truth! With nothing to say and naked promises, there are no results. The result of this hard work of writing books and making conferences is that in 2050 Bulgaria will be a demographic desert, there will be no one to live in our otherwise wonderful homeland. Dear colleagues, when I and my business decided to help people in two of the toughest sectors, I did neither conferences nor publishing books, I acted every day and achieved real results for people, which every Bulgarian feels in his pocket. This is the meaning of all management proposals that the Volya gives a quick and effective result in improving the life of the Bulgarians. So those pushes of IMRO by municipalities to lie to people with these funny words about children is the same lie as their promise of 300 leva. minimum pension for a police officer in every village. At the moment, four pensioners stopped me from asking me: what about the supply of medicine in the villages, what about the increase in pensions? Come out, they're outside by the booth, have a conversation, if you're not ashamed. With what eyes these people offer 200 leva. for a Bulgarian child and voted billions for redundant planes? With this they gave a clear sign to the people what is more valuable to them the children of Bulgaria or American airplanes? Let me remind you: 200 BGN. for a Bulgarian child lv. for an American plane?! Let the Bulgarian citizens conclude well who cares and how much for their well-being, and how they appreciate the life, health, well-being and education of Bulgarian children. To remind you, colleagues, for two years your party is ruling. Not another, but your leader Karakachanov says that two years you have done nothing and it is high time you started working, not just fighting. This is perhaps the only right thing we have heard from Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov as a speech and as an assessment of your activity. So watch out for what you've done in your chest, how long you've been in politics, so it doesn't sound hollow. IMRO Municipal Advisor [[PEOPLE SPEAKING]] These days he says that this is how they benefit from the services of the monkey's personal physician at the zoo. I guess that's not enough. Perhaps you should use the services and a toxicologist to solve the problems and use the dusty, more of the abuse of the dusty. But that's the less trouble, because it's personal to you how you take care of your life and your health. He will most likely have to be appointed, we all, the Bulgarians, to appoint you a personal prosecutor, who will deal with the transactions related to the sectors that manage the VMRO. The deal with the sale of low prices of gold property in Kranevo by the Regional Governor of IMRO to the Municipal Advisor of IMRO, where countless outrage has been done, its entry into the deal between Christmas and New Year and a bunch of other things. [[Reply by National Representative Hamid Hamid: "Mafia! "]] The outrage associated with the passports is still rotting in the arrest. We hope that he will also sing, as the former Vice-President of IMRO sang and described Karakachanov as the organizer of this criminal group and inventer of this concept for selling Bulgarian citizenship. Already people laugh that we do not actually have refugees because, when they go through the hole of the fence, Karakachanov waits for them with the passport and makes them Bulgarian citizens. [[Radio.]] Dear colleagues, it is not pleasant at all, but the so-called Voivods, unfortunately more like the most ordinary iduans. So take action. I hope that at least the remaining part of the mandate will be used for something good for the Bulgarian people and not just for personal benefit. Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Here you are on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u21	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We heard on behalf of a group a statement from a person who claims that he can speak as the most moral studio in the Republic of Bulgaria. A man who's been stripped of immunity for racketeering, extortion, beatings and all kinds of things. A person who, by bypassing the law, does business in Bulgaria. A person who at the back of the Bulgarian people also earns money and claims that he helped the Bulgarian people. We at IMRO don't run a billion-dollar business like him. He does. So when he talks about moral values, about moral things in politics and mentions IMRO, he should first look at himself. And by looking at himself, he'll notice that he was once a liberal and his party was liberal. He didn't realize at all that he could be a patriot when he was a politician in Varna. Suddenly, entering parliament, he became a patriot. Suddenly, entering the parliament, he changed his political programme, which he had presented to all Bulgarian citizens, where it was clearly written: for the re-arming of the three kind of troops, this is in the program of the Volya. Maybe that's what we stole from them. As for demographics, IMRO has indeed since 1999 made dozens of proposals and initiatives to improve the demographic picture in Bulgaria, but we have not participated in the management of the state. This is the first term in which IMRO participates in the management of the state. The things we've talked about, we've advocated in the program today's coalition, today's majority. Slowly but surely they will happen and that is what all Bulgarian citizens see. It is also seen by Bulgarians abroad, because in recent years there is a tendency to return to Bulgaria more than 20 thousand Bulgarians from abroad permanently, which is a statistical fact that everyone can check it out. So the measures that are being taken, both by increasing the incomes of the population, both in the third age and in the education sector, and in the security sector, including in the police and the army, which had never happened before, have stood behind this programme and these things are happening. But it is obvious that the party Volya does not like that the state is moving forward, that the Bulgarians will eventually succeed in their own country, because the facts are such that the business is developing, economic growth, increase in incomes. It's a fact! There's no way to avoid it. But coming out and spitting all the time, every day IMRO is clearly the purpose of Mr. Mareshki's life. Maybe it's his main goal because, seeing what public opinion polls are like, showing that for the Euro Party, the Vol is almost zero. [[shows a sheet of paper with a print out of it..0.]] He's trying to double their result for the euro. He wants to double that zero. We know that mathematics doesn't normally double zero, but we at IMRO were able to double it. And that will be their election result.. two zeros! [[Showed a sheet with two zeros.]] Anyone can conclude what they are. And another thing I want to tell them. They recently changed their name, including the parliamentary group, but they should have done it more precisely............................. the party of Bulgarian patriots.............the party of Bulgarian patriots........................................just named the party..................... So I propose to them that they can change the name of the parliamentary group and that it is called Pinocchio. Thank you. [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. In the manner of conduct please, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u23	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! I have taken the floor in the manner of conduct because, in principle, the statement on behalf of a group is the strongest weapon for a parliamentary group, and I believe that such statements should be made for important, strategic issues relating to the state. Personal attacks on both sides, as we have seen them, only undermine our role of parliament. Personal attacks actually lead to the opposite effect. I just want to remind you that once upon a time, a great speaker, Denostene, gave over 100 speeches against Philip II of Macedonia, entered history as the so-called Filipinos. The result, you know? The capture of all Greece by Philip II of Macedonia. Thank you. [[Single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You're welcome, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the National Assembly's Work Programme with regard to point?? Projects of decisions to amend and supplement the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which was adopted as point three on Thursday. I propose that it be postponed for a moment when we will be ready with the report on the draft decisions. We are preparing the report in a second-reading format, but you know that the Rules are adopted at one reading, so we need more technical time to prepare the report for the needs of this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I don't see a reverse opinion. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next point of the adopted work programme: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE RESPONSE OF EARTHS IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2020 Dear Mrs. Taneva, are you presenting the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please, first of all, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be voted on access to the meeting of the National Assembly of Mr. Nikolay Marinov, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Regional Policy, Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u28	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 85 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u29	Report on the agricultural census bill in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, No 902-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019, adopted on the first vote on 13 February 2019. Project for a second vote. The Agricultural Census in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020 The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u30	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u31	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u32	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u33	Under art. 1 of the importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) The law shall regulate the preparation, organisation and conduct of the census of agricultural holdings in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, hereinafter referred to as the census. (2) The count shall be performed for the purpose of: 1. preparation of integrated statistics for the establishment of the structure of agricultural holdings in the country, production methods, measures and sub-measures for rural development and agri-environment indicators; 2. ensuring harmonised, comparable and coherent statistics using standard classifications and common definitions of the variables studied for all Member States of the European Union; 3. providing up-to-date data on improving state agriculture policy and additional statistical information on the development of agri-environment policy; 4. updating the farm statistical register with the necessary information as a basis for the production of official statistics; 5. introduction of a farm identifier in the statistical register of agricultural holdings; (3) During the census, the basic data referred to in Annex No 1 (variables) shall be collected for: 1. the farm; 2. the farmer and the manager of the farm; 3. the land used; 4. farmed animals; 5. the agricultural equipment used; 6. the workforce and other profitable activities on the holding; 7. support for measures and sub-measures of the Rural Development Programme; 8. used buildings for animals; 9. management of manure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u34	Statements? You have the floor, dear Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor in relation to the proposal made by Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs to the indicators on which the farm data are collected, which are grouped and listed in the Annex, namely: to include further research on the availability of agricultural equipment available on the farm. I would like to point out that, even at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the MPs of all political forces, we have agreed that it is necessary to make a proposal between the first and second votes of the Bill, with which agricultural equipment is also an indicator to be included for research, as this is an essential part of the identification of these holdings. During the first vote on the bill, there were several speeches in plenary in this sense. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the technique used by farmers must also be examined, as the availability of these data across the country will allow a detailed analysis to be carried out which will show its distribution by sector. Only in this way will a more complete idea of the degree of mechanization of agriculture in the country be obtained. The information to be collected under this indicator could also serve as an important element in making certain management decisions in the future, including the sectors in which additional support is needed in the next programming period for the purchase of such equipment. In this way, we could stimulate some less developed sectors for which, as a country, we consider it necessary to develop. However, all this is a matter of politics. It could be assessed to support small family farms, for example, in order to develop traditional sectors for our country, or to develop less developed sectors without particularly high returns, but to be important in their part in ensuring people's livelihood. Colleagues, this is why I propose that we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for art. 1. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u37	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The count shall include: 1. Preparation: (a) drawing up a list of farms to be surveyed; b) development of tools, organization of trainings, printing of materials, promotion and others; c) carrying out a trial census under art. 20; 2. an inquiry.. collecting information on site or online for each farm on the list under point 2. Point 1 (a) (i) of Annex No 1 by filling in a statistical questionnaire including the main data (variables) referred to in Annex No 1; 3. processing, comparison of data provided from administrative sources, control, aggregation and dissemination of results.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u38	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 2. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u39	Under art. 3 of the importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. (1) The survey of farms shall begin in 8,00 hours on 1 September 2020 and ends at 20,00 hours on 18 December 2020; (2) From 8,00 hours on 1 September to 24,00 hours on 18 September 2020, the inquiry shall be carried out online by providing individual data by the farmer, the farm manager or by persons authorised by them by means of a web-based application and completing an electronic farm statistical questionnaire. (3) From 8 p.m. on 19 September to 20,00 p.m. on 18 December 2020, the inquiry shall be conducted by an interviewer through an interview with the farmer, the manager of the holding or with persons authorised by them and filling out a statistical questionnaire in paper form or by means of an online introduction using a portable electronic device. (4) Where, for objective reasons, the inquiry cannot be completed within the period under para. 1, the same can be extended by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry by no more than two months. (5) The control of the completeness of the information collected and the accuracy of the completion of the data in the statistical questionnaire shall begin on 2 September 2020 and shall end three months after the end of the inquiry under para. 1 under para 1 respectively. 4. (6) Information on the main data (variables) set out in Annex 1 shall be collected: 1. 3.. 10, 12 and 14.. 16.. for the period 12 months ending on 31 August 2020; 2 times ct. 11 on 31 August 2020; 3 times c. 13 for a period of three years ending on 31 December 2020. (7) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry provides a single entry point for data entry. Data collected with a paper statistical questionnaire shall be entered by operators.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u40	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 3. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u41	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall take the necessary measures to ensure the quality of the data and metadata transmitted under art. 11 paragraphs 1 and 2 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on integrated farm statistics and repealing Regulations (EC) No 1166/2008 and (EU) No 1337/2011 (OB, L 200/1 of 7 August 2018)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2018/1091
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u42	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 4. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u43	"Chapter 2" - Object of observation. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u44	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the name of the division. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u45	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. A census survey shall be carried out by farms meeting at least one of the criteria set out in Annex 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u46	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 5. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u47	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. (1) The Statistical Authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall draw up the list of agricultural holdings under art. 2, p. 1 letter.............................................................................. (2) In order to identify agricultural holdings and to conduct the census, the National Statistical Institute shall provide to the authority under para. 1 information from the Register of Statistical Units for the economic operators engaged in the agricultural activity: 1. a single identification code under the Commercial Register Act and the register of non-profit legal entities; 2. name of the entity; 3. main economic activity; 4. contact information.. e-mail address, website, telephone number, postal address and others that will be used. (3) Upon request of the authority under para. 1 The administrative units and structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, state bodies and bodies of local self-government shall be obliged in accordance with art. 20, para. 6 of the Statistics Act to provide free information and/or data, including personal data, from registers and databases that support no later than two months before the census. (4) The main sources of administrative data for the census shall be: 1. the integrated administration and control system (IAC), established by Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing rules for direct payments to farmers under support schemes under the common agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 637/2008 and Council Regulation (EC) No 73/2009 (OB, L 347/688 of 20 December 2013.) 2. the system for the identification and registration of bovine animals established by Regulation (EC) No) 3. the system for the identification and registration of ovine and caprine animals established by Council Regulation (EC) No 21/2004 of 17 December 2003 establishing a system for the identification and registration of ovine and caprine animals and amending Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 and Directives 92/102/EEC and 64/432/EEC (OB, L 5/8 of 9 January 2004).) 4. the vineyard register established in accordance with art. 145 of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 922/72, (EEC) No 234/79, (EC) No 1037/2001 and (EC) No 1234/2007 (OB, L 347/671 of 20 December 2013.) 5. the organic farming register established by Council Regulation (EC) No 834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 (OB, L 189/1 of 20 July 2007).) 6. administrative sources related to specific measures and sub-measures of the Rural Development Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. [[Radio.]] Dear Members of the House, please remain calm! I'm not calling an interruption at work. Please don't leave the Chamber! You have a say in this? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 6. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u49	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u50	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division, supported by the Commission as well. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u51	Under art. 7 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u52	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 7, supported by the Commission. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u53	Under art. There are no offers received from an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u54	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 8 supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u55	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry: 1. approves the Farm Counting Programme in 2020, hereinafter referred to as the Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census Census; 2. approves the statistical questionnaire under art. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. guide and ensure the popularization of the goals and tasks of the census among the population; 4. determine by order: (a) the order, manner and rules for determining the participants in the census; b) the order, manner and rules for conducting the trainings; (c) the persons who train the participants in the census; 5. provide the European Commission with information according to art. 5 paragraph 3 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 for variables with low or zero presence in the country; 6. submit to the Council of Ministers a report on the completion of the census and its main results by 30 June 2022.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u56	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. Nine by importer. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u57	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. Statistical authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: 1. coordinate and methodically direct the preparation and conduct of the census throughout the country; 2. develop a program of the census in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation and the law of the European Union; 3. develop the statistical tools for carrying out the census; 4. provide the template of the statistical questionnaire for validation by the President of the National Statistical Institute on the basis of art. 20, para. 5 of the Statistics Act; 5. draw up a list of agricultural holdings under art. 2, p. 1 letter (s) for the holding of the census; 6. prepare methodical guidelines and assist in the zoning of the country of counting sections and control areas; 7. organise and manage the training of experts, respondents, operators, controllers, escorts and other participants in the census; 8. determine the agricultural holdings where the information collected is controlled; 9. draw up the report under art. 9, p. 6; 10. process and distribute the results of the census; 11. draw up and make available to Eurostat the data under art. Article 5 (1) and Article 5 (1) 7 (1) as well as a quality report under art. 11 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u58	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 10. Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u59	Under art. 11 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The district departments of the Ministry of Agriculture shall: 1. implement a general methodological guide of the census in the territory of the administrative area concerned; 2. through the municipal agriculture services participate in all counting activities on the territory of the municipality concerned; 3. together with the district census committees update the list under art. 2, p. point (a) is replaced by the following: 4. in agreement with the Statistical Authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the respective area of counting sections and control areas shall be districtd; 5. distribute according to municipal services of agriculture and settlements the materials needed for the census; 6. organize together with the district census committees and with the local self-government authorities a explanatory campaign among the population for the purposes and manner of conducting the census; 7. together with the Statistical Authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry organize and conduct the training of the participants in the census in the district, municipalities and settlements according to the orders of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests under art. 9, p. 4; 8. check the work of the participants in the census and carry out checks of the determined according to the order of art. 10, t. 8 farms; 9. accept and verify the statistical questionnaires collected and accepted by the controllers; 10. organize and control the introduction into the web-based application of the individual data collected with a paper statistical questionnaire. (2) The Director of the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture shall appoint by order the specific participants in the census according to the requirements of art. 9, p. 4 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u60	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 11. Vote 68 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u61	Under art. 12 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The Central Census Commission shall be a temporary body consisting of a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Vice-President of the National Statistical Institute, Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and members representing the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Directorate General of Civic Registration and Administrative Service of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, non-governmental organisations in agriculture and representative organizations of employers and employees at national level. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on a proposal from the heads of departments and organizations under para. 1 shall determine by order the designation of the Central Census Commission. (3) The work of the committee shall be led by its Chair. (4) The Central Commission of the Census: 1. discuss and give opinions on the census programme and other documents on the preparation, organisation and conduct of the census; 2. discuss and propose measures to address gaps and errors in the work of the authorities carrying out the census; 3. adopt and evaluate the results of the activities of the district census committees and disclose its completion; 4. by the end of 2021, prepare and submit to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and to the President of the National Statistical Institute a report on the census carried out and on the main results thereof, ending its activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u62	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the text of Article 2. 12. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u63	Under art. 13 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) Within one month of the issue of the order under art. 12, para. 2 The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on a proposal from the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Forestry, issued an order for designation of the name composition of the district census committees for each district. (2) In the composition of the committees under para. 1 shall be included representatives of the districts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (3) The heads of departments and organizations under para. 2 propose members of the district census commission. (4) The district census commission shall be a temporary body and shall consist of a chairman, secretary and from 7 to 9 members. (5) The Head of the Regional Census Commission shall be the Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Secretary of Agriculture and Agrostatistics Expert from the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture. (6) The activity of the district census commission shall be led by its chairman. (7) The District Census Commission: 1. shall assist in updating the list referred to in Article 1. 2, p. point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. monitor the conduct of the census in the field in accordance with the census programme and in compliance with the methodological guidelines; 3. on a proposal from the Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Rural Development shall designate settlements, areas or districts with special local conditions for respondents to attend with chaperones; 4. take measures to address gaps and errors in the work of the participants in the census in the field; 5. inform the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry of the preparation and conduct of the census in the district; 6. by 30 June 2021, prepare and submit to the Central Commission on the census report on the census carried out on the territory of the district and on the main results thereof, with which the Commission shall conclude its work.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u64	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 13. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u65	Under art. 14 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. In order to conduct the census, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or a person authorised by him, as well as the Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of Agriculture, shall enter into contracts with natural persons for carrying out the activities of the census.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u66	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 14. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u67	Under art. 15 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The surveyor shall collect individual farm data and shall, where technically possible, enter them online in the web-based application under art. 11, para. 1, t. 10 or record them in the paper statistical questionnaire. In the course of the inquiry, the surveyer shall be guided by the methodological guidelines for completing the statistical questionnaire, as well as by the direction of the controller and the responsible expert in agrostatistics from the relevant Regional Directorate of....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) If necessary in settlements, districts or neighborhoods under art. 13, para. 7, p. 3 respondents visit farms together with chaperones. (3) The accompaniers shall assist the respondents and shall follow their instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u68	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 15. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u69	Under art. 16 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. (1) The controller shall direct, control and assist the respondents from the relevant control area. It shall be responsible for the completeness and quality of the data collected and entered. (2) In its activity, the controller shall be guided by the methodological instructions for completing the statistical questionnaires and, where necessary, shall seek assistance in: 1. organizational issues by the President of the District Census Commission; 2. Methodical questions by the responsible expert on agrostatistics in the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture. (3) The controller shall check the individual data entered by the respondents and on a timetable drawn up by the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Agriculture shall submit to the responsible expert on agrostatistics by the relevant Regional Directorate of
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u70	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 16. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u71	Under art. 17 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17 according to his editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u72	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 17, supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u73	"Chapter 4" is the sum of the sum of the amounts reported in column 010 of the statement of profit and loss, i.e. the sum of the amounts The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u74	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u75	Under art. 18 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u76	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 18, which the Commission supports. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u77	The order and method of holding the census. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u78	Statements by name? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u79	Under art. 19 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. (1) When drawing up the list under art. 2, p. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry statistics authority shall use all available administrative sources. The list shall be made available to the Regional. (2) The Regional Directorates of Agriculture shall, with the assistance of the local self-government bodies, the Regional Directorates of Food Safety and the Regional Directorates of the State Fund of Agriculture, check the completeness of the list under para. 1, update it and, where necessary, complement it with agricultural holdings not included. The update of the list may be carried out after an on-the-spot check. The heads of the relevant departments shall designate by order experts involved in on-the-spot checks. (3) The Regional Directorates of Agriculture shall train the persons who will participate in the on-the-spot inspection. (4) During the on-the-spot verification, agricultural holdings shall be visited for which a questionnaire is completed to specify their activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u80	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 19 on the Commission report. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u81	Under art. 20 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry with the assistance of the district governors and mayors of municipalities shall organise a sample census of agricultural holdings. The purpose of the trial census is to check in real terms the organization, the holding, the toolkit of the census and the online introduction of the individual data. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by order, designate the settlements where the census is conducted, in consultation with the authorities of the local self-government. (3) The sample census shall be conducted from 1 September 2019 to 11 October 2019, by: 1. from 1 September to 10 September 2019 the data shall be entered online by farmers; 2. From 11 September to 11 October 2019 the data shall be collected through respondents and controlled by experts in agrostatistics from the districts................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (4) The results and conclusions of the trial census shall be taken into account in the organisation, implementation and development of the counting toolbox.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u82	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 20 on the Commission report. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u83	Under art. 21 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) In the course of the census, respondents alone or with escorts shall visit farms in their calendar day from 8,00 to 20,00 hours each calendar day. The requested farmer may request the visit to be carried out at other hours, indicating the reasons for it. (2) Farmers and farm managers shall be obliged to provide participants in the census with access to the office and/or business buildings over time under para. 1. (3) In accordance with art. 20, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 21 of the Statistics Act, farmers and farm managers are required to provide reliable data, including personal data referred to in Annex No 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u84	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 21 on the Commission report. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u85	Under art. 22 No proposals have been received. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. The inspectors and controllers shall receive data on agricultural holdings from the farmer, the manager of the holding or from persons authorised by them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u86	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 22 on the Commission report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u87	Under art. 23 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) An official card shall be issued to each surveyor, controller and chaperone containing the three names, photo, number and period of validity. The model of the service card shall be made public by means of the mass media. (2) The persons under para. 1 are required in their visits to agricultural holdings to be legitimised with their official card. (3) Upon completion of the census, the working cards under para. 1 shall be returned to the district offices of.............................. with the census materials.........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u88	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 23 on the Commission report. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u89	Under art. 24 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The farm data referred to in Annex 1 may be provided online within the period referred to in Article 1. 3, para. 2 by means of a single entry point for entering data from the farmer, from the manager of the holding or from persons authorised by them. (2) Individual data collected in paper form shall be entered by operators online in the web-based application under art. 11, para. 1, t. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u90	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 24 on the Commission report. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u91	Under art. 25 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. In carrying out control visits, questionnaire cards shall be used to verify: 1. the completeness of the list of agricultural holdings under art. 2, p. point (a) is replaced by the following: 2. the accuracy of the data recorded.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u92	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 25 on the Commission report. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u93	Under art. No suggestions have been made to an importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. Upon completion of the census, the Statistical Authority of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall summarize the individual data entered in the web-based application under art. 11, para. 1, t. 10, draw up and submit to Eurostat the validated data under art. Article 5 (1) and Article 5 (1) 7 (1) as well as a quality report under art. Article 11 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 within the time limits laid down in Article 11 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u94	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 26. 70 MPs voted: 69 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u95	Under art. 27 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. The results of the census shall be published in special editions and on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, in the statistical yearbook of the National Statistical Institute or shall be published in another appropriate way.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u96	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. Twenty-seven on the report. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u97	"Chapter 6" - Privacy of the data and protection of the mystery. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u98	Are there any statements on the name of the division? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u99	Under art. 28 of the importer has not received any proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28 by the editor of the importer. Under art. 29 No proposals were received. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29 by version of the importer. Under art. 30 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30 by the importer's editor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u100	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 28, the text of the importer for art. 29 and the text of the importer for art. 30. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u101	Under art. 31 of the importer no proposals have been received. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall determine the necessary organisational and technical measures for the protection of statistical secrecy, including the requirement to deal with the data to allow only persons who have signed the declarations of secrecy. (2) The inspectors, operators, controllers and escorts shall sign the affidavits under para. 1 upon receipt of his official cards under art. 23, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u102	Are there any statements under art. 31? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's version of the Commission's Report on art. 31. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u103	Under art. 32 of the importer has not received any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: Art. 32. The provisions of art. 15, 16, 18 and 21 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (OB, L 119/1 of 4 May 2016)) (hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU)'s Regulation (EU) It shall not apply to the entity whose personal data are collected and processed in the census on the basis of art. 89 of Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u104	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 32. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the Commission's version has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u105	Under art. There are no offers received from an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u106	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's text for art. 33. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u107	..criminal administrative provisions.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u108	Are there any statements on the name of the division? There's no wish to make a statement. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u109	Under art. 34 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) Physical person who does not provide the data under art. 1, para. 3 or provide false data, is punished with a fine of 1000 to 2000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 3000 to 6000 BGN is imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u110	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 34. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u111	Under art. 35 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. A surveyor, operator, controller or other participant in the census who fails to fulfil his obligations under this law shall be punished with a fine of 500 to 1000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u112	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 35. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u113	Under art. There are no offers received from an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36 in the version of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u114	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 36. [[National Representative Daniela Daritkova wants the floor for procedure.]] Do you want the procedure now, Dr. Daritkova? After the vote is closed. Abort the vote and announce the result. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I would like to ask you to vote on one last text to conclude the division, and then I will give you the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u115	Under art. 37 of the importer did not submit any proposals. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: Art. 37. (1) The violations of the law shall be established by acts drawn up by officials appointed by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on a proposal from the directors of the Regional............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (2) On the basis of the acts drawn up, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry or an official authorised by him shall issue criminal decrees. (3) The composition of the acts, the issuance, appeal and execution of the criminal decrees shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u116	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 37. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. I give the floor for a procedural proposal to Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u117	Dear Madam President, please, on behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group for a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u118	A 20-minute break follows, and then we will continue to work on the Bill. Thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u119	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing to examine the bill. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u120	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u121	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the name of the division "Additional provisions." Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u122	According to § 1 of the importer there is a proposal received by the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. A single entry point for input data is a web-based application for input of data in the census of agricultural holdings. 2. "Animal unit" is a standard unit of measurement within the meaning of art. 2 point (d) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. 3. The agricultural holding is a natural or legal person on behalf of which and/or on behalf of which the agricultural holding carries out its activities and which bears the legal and economic responsibility for the activities of the holding and assumes the business risk. 4. The agricultural holding is a separate unit, both technically and economically, which has a single management and which produces agricultural production or maintains in good agricultural and environmental condition agricultural land which is no longer used for production purposes and other activities within the meaning of art. 2 point (d) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. 5. "Identifier" is the individual number of each holding where ECATTE is included at the locality, in whose territory the holding is. 6. The area used shall be the area within the meaning of art. 2 point (e) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. 7. The data for each statistical unit, including personal data, shall be available for each individual statistical unit. 8. It is a collection of all the documents and technical resources necessary for the preparation, organisation and conduct of the census. 9. "Personal data" is data within the meaning of art. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act and of art. 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 10. It is a characteristic within the meaning of art. 2 point (d) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. 11. The results of the census are the aggregated information from the processed farm data and the analyses carried out on the basis of them. 12. "Family garden" is an area within the meaning of art. Point (j) of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1091. 13. The management of the agricultural holding is a natural person carrying out the direct day-to-day management of the agricultural holding.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u123	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I would like to take account of the proposal made by Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which they have tabled between the first and second votes of the Law on the census of agricultural holdings in 2020, related to the definition of the agricultural sector. This was the other main element around which we united during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, namely to specify the definition of a farmer within the meaning of this law. All political forces are joining and supporting this position because, even in the discussions and comments held at the meeting, there is comment that there is some misunderstanding of the concept. Concerns have been raised that, by formulating it in this way, it will cause a number of problems related to filling the questionnaire cards that you were familiar with. Questions that may arise during the inquiry may also relate to who exactly is the subject of a study, which, in turn, may lead to an inconsistent understanding of the purpose of the census activity. Therefore, my fellow Members, I propose that we support the proposed version of the Commission. By clearing and clarifying this text, the possibility of a vague interpretation of the concept will be excluded. Once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in general, during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the bill was supported by all the political forces, both first and second votes in the Commission. And this is because it will regulate in detail the counting activities related to both preparation, performance of the trial and the actual census. The implementation of all these activities will provide summary and comprehensive information on the state of agricultural holdings in the country. I therefore propose once again that we support the proposed version of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Other speeches on the proposal under discussion for § 1. I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the text of the importer supported by the Commission in the version proposed by the Commission for § 1. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u126	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... This law establishes conditions for implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/1091 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on integrated farm statistics and repealing Regulations (EC) No 1166/2008 and (EU) No 1337/2011.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u127	Are there any speeches? There are no people who are willing to speak on the discussion § 2. We move on to the vote on the paragraph in an version proposed by the Commission and in support of the text of the importer. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u128	The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes that § 3 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in art. 9, p. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u129	Is there any comments on the Commission's proposal § 3 to be rejected? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 3 to be rejected because it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 9, p. 5. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u130	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the name of the subdivision: 'Concluding provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u131	Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposal on the name of the subdivision? There are no requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the name of the section "Concluding provisions." Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the name of the division has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u132	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue the order under art. 12, para. 2 within three months of the entry into force of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u133	Are there any statements on the reported § 4, which becomes § 3? There are no requests for speeches. We are voting for the generally supported version of an importer in an version proposed by the Commission for § 4, which becomes § 3. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u134	No proposals have been received under § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u135	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the last paragraph of the draft law under consideration, which becomes § 4 of the Commission Report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u136	According to Annex 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 1: Annex 1 to art. 2, p. 2 List of key data (variable) to be observed during the census of agricultural holdings in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020. 1. Administrative and geographical data on the farm: (a) geographical location of the holding on the grid of the statistical units INSPIRE for common European use; (b) address of contact and address of the establishment of the holding, e-mail address and telephone number; (c) a single civil number/personal number of a foreigner (GNN/LCH) of natural persons or a single identification code (LEI) under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities (d) the name of the holding of legal persons and sole traders and the three names of the holder for natural persons; (e) legal status of the holding; (f) method of accounting recording; (g) registration number of the holding for registration in administrative sources. 2. Details of the farm manager: (a) year of birth and sex; (b) agricultural qualification and vocational training; (c) year of classification as manager. 3. Use of (managed) agricultural area type of ownership and way of holding. 4. Biological 5. Purpose of the farm's production. 6. Distribution of areas by crop: (a) cereals; (b) cereals and protein crops; (c) technical crops supplied, fibre, medical and aromatic crops, spices and other technical crops; (d) trench feed crops; (e) feed crops; (f) potatoes; (g) fresh vegetables, watermelons, melons and strawberries; (h) flowers and ornamental plants; (i) seeds and seedlings; (k) burnings; (l) permanent grassland, including kept in good agricultural and environmental condition; (m) permanent crops by species; n) family gardens; (o) total area of agricultural use outdoors. 7. Agricultural area used under glass or high accessible cover: (a) vegetables, including watermelons, melons and strawberries; (b) flowers and ornamental plants; (c) permanent crops; (d) others. 8. Unused agricultural land, forest land and other areas. 9. Areas for cultivation of cultivated mushrooms. 10. Polar areas. 11. Agricultural animals and birds on the holding by category: (a) bovine animals; (b) buffaloes; (c) equidae; (d) sheep; (e) goats; (f) pigs; (g) birds (broilers, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese, ostriches and others); (h) rabbits; (i) bees; (k) bugs; (l) animals kept for skin; m) others. 12. Used agricultural equipment by species. 13. Contribution to rural development: holdings which have benefited from the types of measures and sub-measures for rural development. 14. Animal buildings and manure management: (a) animal grazing; (b) buildings for animals; (c) manure management; (d) manure storage and treatment facilities; (e) Tormented IPCC. 15. Work force and other profitable activities: (a) permanent employed workers. (a) family and non-family labour force by gender; (b) workers who are temporarily employed by sex; (c) contractors under contracts; (d) measures for the safety of the agricultural holding; (e) other profitable activities directly related to the agricultural holding; (f) other profitable activities unrelated directly to the agricultural holding. 16. Insurance and innovations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u137	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor to explain to you the proposal made by Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which they have tabled between the first and second votes of the Law on the census of agricultural holdings in 2020, for editing in the Annex. This proposal is again related to the inclusion of agricultural equipment in the scope of the indicators examined in the census. As I have already explained on the occasion of the previous proposal under art. 1, all colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture and Food have united and supported the idea of including agricultural equipment as an element to be monitored and for which information to be collected by farmers during the census. You all supported the proposal made to include the agricultural equipment used in the indicators. This is because we are all convinced that, for the purposes of agrostatistics, it is important to have the information available on agricultural equipment. Since we have already voted and supported Professor Bachvarova's proposal under art. 1 For the addition of this indicator to the study, I suggest that we also support this proposal for its specific indication in the statistical questionnaire, as the Commission version has been made and the text for Annex No 1 is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches to be made. We are going to vote on the text of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission, which is in line with Professor Bachvarova's proposal, which asked us to support the national representative Mrs. Dimova. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on the Annex No 1. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u140	Annex 2 to art. 5 of the importer, which is also the last text of the Bill, there are no proposals received. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 2 to art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u141	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on Importation for Annex 2 to art. Five on the bill. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted, and with that in the second vote the Law on the Counting of Farms in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2020, an importer is the Council of Ministers on 31 January 2019, adopted on the first vote on 13 February 2019. Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Dear Members of Parliament, we must move to the next point, which will take longer than the time remaining until the end of the sitting, but it is not wise to divide the reading of the reports from the discussion. [[Noise and lines.]] I will now introduce you to parliamentary control reports for 1 March 2019, Friday: 1. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer six questions from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; Stefan Apostolov and Daniela Saveklieva; Venka Stoyanova; Alexander Alexandrov; Hristo Grudev; and Daniela Daritkova. 2. The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer a question from the MP Ivan Valkov. 3. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer six questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov; Hristo Grudev; Dimitar Alexandrov; Valentin Milushev and Radoslava Chekanska; Daniela Dimitrova; and Alexander Alexandrov. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Claudia Gancheva; and Dimitar Gechev. 5. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Anna Alexandrova; Iglika Sabeva; and Maria Ilieva. 6. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Vassil Tsvetkov; and Asya Peeva. 7. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Radostin Tanev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question written by the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the MPs Diana Savateva; and Krasimir Yankov to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the lack of the country. Due to participation in an international meeting in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the daily programme, I am closing the plenary session.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-28.u142	The next meeting is on 1 March 2019, Friday, at 9.00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
