ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for November 6, 2019. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups to include new points in the Programme. "1." Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics is the importer. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Nuclear Energy Safe Use Act Importer is the Council of Ministers' first item for Thursday, 7 November 2019. 4. Second vote on the Bill amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 19 September 2019 in the first vote. Point 2 for Thursday, 7 November 2019 5. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie on the Functioning of the Francophonian Institute of Administration and Management (FIAU) in Sofia, signed on 28 August 2002. 6. Parliamentary control after the end of the legislative part for Friday, 8 November 2019 Please vote. They voted 182 MPs: 144, none, abstention 38. The offer is accepted. I'll introduce you to two decisions of the Central Election Commission. ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1599-NS 30 October 2019 on the announcement of Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev as MP in the Third Election Region of Varna in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-19 of 30 October 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 30 October 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Lilyana Pavlova Pavlova as MP from the Third Election Region of Varna, raised by GERB party in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Lilyana Pavlova. After a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated election districts it was found that the next candidate on the list of party GERB is Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev with EGN... as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of GERB party from the Third Election Region of Varna. Next: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1600-NS 30 October 2019 on the announcement of Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova as MP in the Thirty-First Election Region of Yambolski in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-19 of 30 October 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 30 October 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are terminated the powers of Volen Nikolov Siderov as MP from the Thirty-First Election Region The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of the powers of Volen Nikolov Siderov. Following a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated electoral districts, it was found that the next candidate on the list of Coalition "Coalition" PATROTI "NFSB," "ATAKA" and "VMRO" is Maria Yordanova Tsvetkova. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Maria Yordanova with EGN... as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of coalitions Please invite the newly elected MPs to the House. Colleagues, please stand up for swearing. [[Everyone gets up.]] Please repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause. The newly elected MPs receive congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u3	I will introduce you to the following drafts and resolutions for the period 30 October: Bill on the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport, the Committee on Education, the Committee on the Environment and Water, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Commission on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Security Services, the implementation and use of Special Intelligence Funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, the Committee on Bulgarians in Foreign Foreign Affairs, the Committee on the Committee on Revenue Agencies and Countering Agencies and Trafficking. Draft budget bill for the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Health. Draft budget bill for state social security for 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill to supplement the Climate Change Restriction Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Budget and Finance. Next communication: The Programme format of the Budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2020, the parameters of which correspond to the Bill of State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020 and the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2020 - 2022, has been entered in the National Assembly. The material is provided to all Standing Committees and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, they were received: Opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2020, updated short-term forecast for 2020 and Opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Draft Law on the Budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2020. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were sent to all Standing Committees and are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The opinions are also published on the website of the Fiscal Council. On 29 October 2019 the National Assembly was given the developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council Opinion on the theme "The challenges to labor in the context of economic exploitation." By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was submitted to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Last message. The National Statistical Institute has received: Information on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 4 October 2019; R &amp; D indexes in the Section............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We move to the first point of the accepted Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND FOR PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES AND THE SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENTATION OF CORRUPTION AND TO TAKE OFF OF INDEPENDENCE OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLEMENT. The Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics is the importer. To present the Report to the Commission, please, Dear Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at its meeting held on 10 October 2019 discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure on the basis of art. 93 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. On the basis of art. 11, para. 5 in relation to Art. 9 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly elects a President of the Commission on a proposal from the Members of the National Assembly. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 9 in connection with Art. 35 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the National Assembly should confirm, together with the procedural rules and the corresponding declarations: Annex No 1 "Written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property; Annex No 2........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army; Annex No 3............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Attitudes on the procedural rules took the following MPs: Boris Yachev, Spas Gurnevski, Milko Nedyalkov, Kristina Sidorova, Ivan Valkov, Slavi Netzov and Simeon Naydenov. Following the debates, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee, with 6 votes for abstention, with no objection, proposed to the National Assembly to consider and adopt the following: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 11, para. Article 5 in conjunction with Article 5 9 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I. Proposal of candidates and submission of documents to candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property 1. Proposals for candidates for President of the Commission for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property shall be made by Members of the National Assembly. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the National Assembly's case-law to the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics within 14 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the candidates. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: - the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template "Annex 1 to the decision'; - written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex No 2" to the Decision; - detailed professional CV; - a copy of documents for completed higher legal education, as well as a certificate of legal capacity; - evidence of criminality; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 3. Within 7 days of the publication of the applications, each candidate shall submit to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics: - a written concept of his work as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in paper and electronic media; - declaration of incompatibility according to template - Statement of property and interests according to a model approved by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property) - Annex No 4. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The proposals together with the documents referred to in Section I shall be published within two working days of receipt of them on the website of the National Assembly. The name and the reasons of the Member of the National Assembly who has raised the application shall be published. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organisations may present to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics opinions on the candidate, including issues to be put to him. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar I: No 1, the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, or by e-mail: anticorruption@parliament.bg no later than seven days before the hearing of the candidates. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. Opinions and questions shall be published within three days of their receipt on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of admission of applicants to a hearing 1. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at a separate meeting prior to the hearing shall verify whether all necessary documents have been presented and whether the proposed candidates are eligible for the post of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 2. Where the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission finds that the applicant has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform it that it may present them within 5 days of notification. 3. No applicants who have not submitted the documents under Section I or who do not meet the requirements of art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 4. Following the verification, the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics shall, by its decision, draw up a list of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property admitted to hearing. The list shall be drawn up in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates admitted for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property 1. The hearing is held at an open meeting of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, which is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee only listens to the candidates admitted on their order on the list. 3. An importer of the proposal shall present the applicant at an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. The applicant is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in an exhibition within 15 minutes for each candidate. 5. Members of the National Assembly, members of the Commission, may ask questions to the applicant, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, universities and scientific organisations. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 6. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after asking a question to him. The answer time for each question is up to 2 minutes. 7. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall submit to the National Assembly a detailed and reasoned report from the hearing, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report also includes draft decisions on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. VI. Election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the candidates admitted may attend the meeting. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall present a report on the hearing held. 3. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal on their order as defined in the list of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes during the re-vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. The Annexes from No 1 to No 24 are part of the proposed procedural rules. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Vote 153 MPs: 150, none, abstention 3. The decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property has been adopted. A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, you have the floor, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to show you an icon. [[Shows the icon.]] What's the big deal? We know Mareshki is a believer, loves icons, has acquired another one. I'll take this opportunity to tell you how I got this icon. A long time ago I should not define days or weeks in a municipality, which is from the many municipalities in which for 30 years democracy has committed genocide against the Bulgarian people, there was no access and there was still no access to medicines and many other things needed for the Bulgarians, even in the big cities in the night hours. This icon is a gift from a community, for we have solved this problem, which everyone who has managed over the past thirty years has not solved. On the one hand, I am proud and, naturally, happy for the gratitude of the Bulgarian people for seeing what is being done. On the other hand, however, I am ashamed that 30 years in which we give billions in healthcare, we give billions for unnecessary toys, unnecessary iron, in many municipalities and villages the Bulgarian people have no access to health care, no access to medicine supply and is left on God's will. Another election campaign has passed, and everyone has been practicing in all sorts of modern things - dirty air, traffic jams and all sorts of topics that don't bring them into conflict with people with great power, behind-the-scenes puppeteers, cartels in different areas. I did not hear any candidate in any municipality mention a word about robbing the Bulgarian people, about the continuing plundering of the Bulgarian people by the cartels in fuel. I didn't hear a word about dealing with the problem of lack of medication. I didn't hear a word that there wasn't a 24-hour pharmacy or maybe there was an exception, but I don't believe there is. Even if there is a 24-hour pharmacy, it works illegally because the rules created by this National Assembly do not give business the right to work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. However, no one is talking about this because it is very convenient for cartels and medicines and hospitals to receive personal sponsorships or party ones. Ladies and gentlemen winners in the next elections, winners and in the next ones, I invite you to start thinking at least a little bit in this National Assembly - 10% if we set aside for the interests of the Bulgarian people, I am convinced that Bulgaria will be a completely different country, our cities will be completely different, and people will give us icons for gratitude that we have thought of them and not as a thank you to a separate person, for having partially solved the problem of a community. My request is once again: Land! Let us do something useful for the Bulgarian people. This term is coming to an end, and we are continuing to chew pensions, domestic crime, gypsy, illiterate vote, bought vote as if it were a problem from yesterday and that day that it was not a problem for 30 years. Who is responsible for these things? Now there's a party TV outside asking me, "Isn't that a shame to all of you?" No, it's not a shame to all of us! It is a shame to all of you, because we have not participated anywhere in the government and we have no responsibility for all the outrage that people are currently murmuring against. The low turnout is not directed at us, the low turnout, as the question has been asked, by the way, by the way, by the party TV, is to you, because now this question is being asked. Fifteen years ago, I said that Varna was managed by 15 thousand votes of BSP over several mandates. Yes, now you do not like that GERB rules with 600 000 s. 700 000 votes. Then you ruled Varna with 15 000 votes. Isn't that a shame? It's embarrassing! What do we do to make people trust politicians? I believe that this is our main obligation.. and I fit in, I join, I cannot, we are present, we bring part of the shame.... is to work in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and not party citizens. Thank you. God save Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-CROATATION. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure to allow Mrs. Rositsa Velkova to be admitted to the Chamber "Deputy Minister of Finance," and Mrs. Lyudmila Petkova "Director of Tax Policy" at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u9	I shall put to the vote the proposed admission to this House. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u10	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 902-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2019. At a regular meeting held on 10 October 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. The meeting was attended by Ms. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mina Yankova, Natalia Cherneva and Petya Kocheva, Head of Departments of the Department of the Department of the Directorate of Tax Policy and by the National Revenue Agency present Plamen Dimitrov, Deputy Executive Director and Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of the Administration of the Administration of Customs and Methodology. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. The Bill proposes the introduction of tax rules in accordance with the provisions laid down in Directive (EU) 2016/1164 and Directive (EU) 2017/952 limiting the possibilities for aggressive tax planning and avoidance from taxation; it provides for taxation in the cases of transfer of assets from the Republic of Bulgaria to another part of the same enterprise outside the country and the introduction of specific tax regulation to neutralise the cases of hybrid discrepancies and non-compliance with a taxable person resident for tax purposes of more than one jurisdiction; changes relating to the clarification of provisions of the Law and facilitating its practical application are also proposed. The Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law propose amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on the National Revenue Agency, the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses as follows: In the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the proposed changes are related to easing the administrative burden and facilitating the use of tax benefits for persons with reduced working capacity, for children with disabilities and for personal contributions for retirement insurance, dropping the obligation to apply a copy of a valid decision of TelK/NELK and copies of documents certifying the contributions made under art. 9a of the Social Security Code. The provisions relating to the hidden distribution of profits are synchronised with those in the Corporate Income Tax Act; they are proposed to be abolished on the obligation of undertakings and self-insured persons to include in the statement of income paid under art. 73, para. 1 of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals Awards in the form of an additional game and subject profits with a negligible value of up to 100 BGN, which are non-taxable; the definitions of a liquidation share shall be changed and the prizes shall be aligned with the same terms in the Law on Corporate Income Tax; a comparison of the income of athletes and coaches in contracts with sports clubs of income from employment is proposed. The Local Taxes and Fees Act proposes changes relating to the reduction of the administrative burden by dropping the obligation for the owner to submit to the municipality a document by a competent authority upon termination of the registration of the vehicle; it provides for a change in the method of determining the tourist tax for the calendar month, which will be based on the number of nights provided in the calendar month contained in the Single Tourist Information System; it is proposed that natural persons, including sole traders, who are mandatoryly registered in the case of supplies of services, and the tax payable by the recipient under the Value Added Tax Act, in the course of carrying out patent activities under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, be subject to patent tax; it is proposed that municipal employees determine a tax assessment of the real estate of enterprises in cases of intentionally lowering their reporting values for the purpose of reducing or avoiding payment of tax on them. The Value Added Tax Act proposes changes relating to the introduction of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/1910 of the Council of 4 December 2018 amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards the harmonisation and simplification of certain rules of the value added tax system for the taxation of trade between Member States; it introduces a procedure for the storage of goods until a request is made to facilitate and simplify the rules in force for intra-Community trade of goods between persons from different Member States of the European Union where the transfer of the order of goods as the owner occurs after their arrival in another Member State at a later time; a rule is introduced on the basis of which, in the case of a chain of successive supplies of goods subject to a single intra-Community transport between two Member States made by or for the account of an intermediate supplier in the chain, is to determine the transport to which of supply is concerned for the purpose of the application of the exemption with a zero VAT rate provided for intra-Community supplies; In light of the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union laid down in Case C-366/11 and C-308/16, it is proposed that the scope of the concept of "new buildings' is extended; changes relating to the registration and reporting of sales in the absence of payments with a debit or credit card are proposed; the circle of persons obliged to submit to the National Agency for Revenues data on supplies and movements of quantities of liquid fuels supplied or received, as well as for the change in them. In order to reduce the costs for the tax administration and the administrative burden for citizens and businesses, it is proposed that the requested e-mail addresses for correspondence should be considered as an e-mail address for receiving messages, according to art. 28, para. 2 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code; an additional provision defining the supply of goods within the meaning of the Value Added Tax Act is proposed, which achieves more complete compliance with art. 14 of Directive 2016/112/EC; it is proposed not to be regarded as an independent economic activity within the meaning of the Value Added Tax Act the activity carried out by a natural person in any other relationship which creates relationships similar to those of an employer and employee in relation to the working conditions, remuneration and liability of the employer; rules are introduced for the levying of tax on the introduction and supply of goods which are intended for the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone in which the State exercises sovereign rights, jurisdiction and control, in accordance with art. 42 and/or art. 47 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is envisaged that, in the case of a consistent operation of a uniform activity in the same establishment/units of two or more connected persons or persons acting in concert with the taxable turnover of each subsequent person, the turnover realised by all persons who carried out the activity in the object (s) prior to it shall be included for a period not exceeding the last 12 consecutive months prior to the current month. Act on the National Revenue Agency Regarding the proposals for non-existent payments, the Law on Value Added Tax proposes a change in the Law on the National Revenue Agency, which provides for the obligation to periodically provide information by payment service providers for the number and value of transactions on a payment account carried out through a virtual POS terminal. Law on excise duties and tax warehouses (TAD) Amendments are also proposed to the provisions of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses relating to the application of the order for the refund of excise duties on goods with paid excise duty which are intended for use by the armed forces of any other State which is party to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The provisions concerning the date on which the pre-execution of the acts issued by the Director of the Customs Agency takes effect shall be reviewed. The provision of art. 25 of the Law in accordance with the settled caselaw relating to the annulment of audit acts with findings of missing excise goods, as a result of the non-application of Decree No 13a-0403 on the limits of natural furry, marriage and missing of commodity-material values in their storage and transport. A change is proposed by which all drivers of means of transport carrying excise goods under duty suspension or sent to excise-free end-users will have to deliver the goods to the place of destination specified in the electronic administrative document or the place of direct delivery. An administrative penalty shall be introduced for natural persons who send or transport excise goods of a commercial nature to another Member State in quantities exceeding those regulated for personal use. Accounting Law Changes are proposed to refine, correct and supplement certain provisions in order to better implement them in practice. Single traders who have not been active shall be exempt from the obligation to declare that fact in the Trade Register. A relief is introduced for enterprises that do not operate and this circumstance is intended to be declared once and not as it has been so far annually. After the presentation and discussion of the draft was held a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 902-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Dear Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 902-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers At an extraordinary meeting held on 30 October 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 902-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2019. The Commission's meeting was attended by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance and experts from the Ministry of Finance. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Petrova and, in view of the Commission's functional competence, focus was placed on the changes proposed in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. In relation to automated data exchange between the Register of Road Vehicles maintained by the Ministry of Interior and the municipality concerned, it is proposed to waive the obligation for the owner to submit a document by a competent authority in the municipality upon termination of the registration of the vehicle. With regard to the start of the actual functioning of the Single Tourism Information System, a change in the method of determining the tourist tax for the calendar month is envisaged and this is proposed on the basis of the data on the number of accommodations provided during the calendar month contained in the Single Tourism Information System. In order to be precise and to cover all cases where it is impossible to determine the tax on the acquisition of property, it is proposed to recover previous provisions under which, in the event of a free acquisition of property other than real estate, limited property rights on real estate and motor vehicles, a tax return is to be filed. It is envisaged that, in the case of reasons for the use of tax relief, the owners of buses carrying out public transport of passengers on regular bus lines in the cities and in the poorly populated mountain and border regions which are subsidized by the municipalities should notify the municipality by submitting a tax return within two months of the occurrence of the circumstances. It is proposed that natural persons, including sole traders, who are mandatoryly registered in the case of supply of services, and the tax for which the recipient is required under the Value Added Tax Act, in carrying out patent activities under the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, be subject to patent tax. It is proposed that municipal employees determine a tax assessment for real estates of enterprises in cases of established intentional lowering of their reporting values in order to reduce or avoid payment of the tax for them. The proposed increase the powers of municipal employees to determine the tax assessment of real estate to businesses. Another proposal relates to the acquisition of a vehicle by inheritance, where the declaration of a vehicle in possession is not submitted within the legal six months period, an employee of the municipal administration shall form a service account for the vehicle on the basis of the data available in the municipality and in the register of the population. It is also envisaged that a provision on the provision by municipalities of daily information by electronic means to the Ministry of Finance for measures to secure and recover claims under the Local Taxes and Fees Act will be dropped. The suspension is proposed as at present the provision is not effectively applied. On the one hand, public municipal claims are made for forced collection by public contractors under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code or by judicial contractors under the Civil Procedure Code, and therefore the interim measures are imposed by them and, on the other hand, the nature of the information on measures to secure and collect claims at present does not allow it to be sent in a structured form so that its provision is carried out on a daily basis and automated basis. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes,............................................................................................ and 6 votes.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u13	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, you know that lawmaking is one of the main functions of the National Assembly, from which, unfortunately, you are obviously fleeing. Proof of this is the absolutely ridiculous way in which you are trying to pass the entire revenue portion of the budget, namely tax laws. I repeat in plural terms the laws, not the law! In one law, however, in one debate, in one reading, in one report, you make a change in the entire revenue part of the budget "The Act on Accounting, the VAT Act, the Act on the National Revenue Agency, the Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and so on, not to list everyone. Obviously, you have not learned a lesson from last year from the Budget Act, which, you know, has a period of validity of a year during which you reorganized almost all the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the Election Code. I think you had put the Youth and Sports Act there and other laws that didn't have cashiership to the Budget Act. Dear citizens of business Bulgarians, if I paraphrase in other words, the rulers are again trying to make the entire revenue part of the state in a single report, in a single reading here, now, in the Chamber, instead of all other laws, as is the law on the regulations governing this matter. Another way of putting it, it is literally dark and in the transmission sense that decide how many skins to remove from the back of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? No. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Some important remarks on the proposed amendments to the Law that we are discussing in plenary. Firstly, it seems that there is no discussion on these important changes in corporate income taxation. Dear colleagues, if you go on the Internet now, you will see that under this law, apart from the fact that the Law has been published with the motives of the government, there is no opinion of any business organizations regarding the changes of the Law in corporate income taxation. Until three o'clock this morning, only the report of the second committee was published. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Take a look if you read the report, it gives the statement of the representative of the Ministry of Finance. There is not a single statement, there is no discussion, the reasons are read, the hands are raised and the Committee on Regional Development reports to you that the Law is okay and we have to vote on it. In the Budget Committee, the report showed up this morning, I don't know what time. Changes to the Corporate Income Tax Act are being adopted in the Republic of Bulgaria. The main Budget Commission does not have a report to some extent this morning! If you open the Report of our Budget Committee, you will see that there is no discussion there. Again, the government's motives, in fact the Chairman of the Budget Committee, read Mrs. Stoyanova, repeated the government's motives in 24 pages. No opinions, no last-minute discussions. The amendments to this law that must be made... Yes, as a Member State of the European Union, we are obliged and must fulfil our commitments on harmonisation of legislation and embodiment, so to speak, of the European Union directives in our legislation. In this there is no dispute, only that the way it is being done and the attempts at these amendments relating to the directives to push through and other interests is something that we cannot accept. Secondly, honourable Members, we will not be tired, but I do not know what to say anymore. A hundred times in the Budget Committee, we warned colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, where qualified specialists should and work not to pretend to be the Institute of Literature, not to offer us essays. Open up, fellow Members, 24 pages of government's motives there is not a single number in them! Of the changes we are making, it is not clear what the effects on budget revenue are, what the effects on budget expenditure are! Not a single number from the Ministry of Finance! That's why it's not in the budget committee protocol. I told them: Dear colleagues, I know that you can do it at least until the Law enters at first reading, give the MPs at least one tab of the effects. There's no tablet like that! For us it is extremely impertinent to make changes concerning the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria and the revenues without any estimates! There is no parliament in the world that would start discussing such changes. We also give a very unpleasant sign to both our and foreign investors. Ladies and gentlemen, from 2010 until now there have been 40 publications in the Official Journal of the European Union on amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act and others. Forty! The law is made of Swiss cheese. Tell me which Bulgarian or foreign company can do business planning, can rely on its income and expenses, can rely on investment policy? After all, the changes proposed take place a few weeks before the deadline expires. The directives are from 2016 - 2017 The Bulgarian Government - GERB and their allies - what have you been doing since 2016? Three or four weeks before the deadline expires, we make changes without reports, without estimates, without opinions, without any discussions! A few positives and other things that worry us. Firstly, the directive on the solution of the issue of differences between the accounting and market valuation of assets and liabilities of companies operating in Bulgaria is correctly introduced............................................................................................ The idea related to the so-called hybrid discrepancies is to be addressed and this is very good, the attempts of certain companies to avoid paying taxes in Bulgaria and in other countries of the European Union. That's good, and it has to be done. But, honourable Members, you do realize that these amendments to the directives are because foreign companies operating in Bulgaria should become so that they do not pay taxes in Bulgaria, which are lower than other countries of the European Union, by 10%, and leading European economies to collect the majority of the income generated in the Republic of Bulgaria. That is why I said that there are no estimates because the estimates, which is why they do not give them, will show that these changes will thus result in a reduction in tax revenues from corporate taxation. It is good that it reduces the administrative burden in some cases, as is the case, of course, with the need so far for the people who had to enjoy social advantages before the tax authorities to submit certificates from TelK. This is the success of the electronicisation of the Bulgarian government " 2019" after we have spent 2 billion. lv. and leaked the data of 5 million Bulgarians and 800,000 companies from the NRA that now several hundred people will not have to carry a note from TELK. It's good, it's commendable, only it's a drop in the sea. A change in the definition and determination of the difference between a liquidation share and a tax credit is good in order to clarify the exact payments to be made by natural persons who hold or receive such liquidation shares. But, honourable Members, you are solving the issue of taxation and now you will be taxing doctors who specialize in public hospitals. Have these people not thought that this was the moment when doctors we want to stimulate to specialize in, receive specializations in Bulgarian health institutions and treat us Bulgarian citizens, didn't they come to mind in the Ministry of Finance that this is a good reason instead of regulating their income tax from specialization, releasing them or paying reduced tax to stimulate the specialization of our medical staff. Next, you introduce patent tax for individuals, small, mostly small and medium-sized companies, but mainly small companies and the positive you say is that this patent tax will be paid in the municipality. Very well, however, here you see that this patent tax is therefore patented because it will not depend on the turnover of companies. In other words, this is the introduction of a tax under the decent pretext that it will be in favour of companies, only this will be a hit on small companies in municipalities, because regardless of their turnover they will pay the same tax. Well, imagine the supply of goods and services from a small company in Svilengrad, say, or in Sofia. What patent tax?! He will have one turnover in Sofia, in Harmanli, in Svilengrad or in the village of Ljulyache, there will be another turnover, but he will pay the same patent tax to the municipality. In addition, note that it is also suggested that a good-looking step is proposed for municipal employees to determine the tax assessment in terms of the difference between the accounting data on the value of the company's assets and liabilities and their market value. So what happens now? We will give great authority to the municipalities to determine this tax. That is, if a company, either ours or foreign, has valued an accounting asset of 500 thousand. BGN, here you say, the municipality can come and tell them it's not 500 thousand. BGN, well 500 million. First question. Who in the city is doing this assessment? Is it not known to importers that these assessments are made by competent persons of the court when it comes to court, and otherwise the Privatisation Agency has licensed asset valuers? Municipalities don't have that capacity. Secondly, this is a truly brilliant source of corruption. Imagine, this is a horror not only for Bulgarian but also for foreign companies. We give the right to the two employees Penka and Ivan from their so-called municipality to come and say: "Good afternoon, you are a company of your own. Let's see how much your assets are accounted for. One million o'clock, no, they're about 130 million..... what we do according to our assessment, so instead of solving the issue of non-payment of taxes here, potential conditions are being created for the expansion of corruption. In addition, pay attention, there is a proposal here that Bulgarian companies intermediaries providing supplies of goods and services across the territory of Bulgaria should not be registered under VAT and not pay VAT, the rate should be zero as they simply transit the goods. Good afternoon! What about these transit companies? How many taxes will be concealed when they don't register? What is the guarantee that these goods will reach from point A to point B, since customs and other state institutions cannot handle this issue under current law? And now, attention! In ninth place, a zero rate is offered. Zero rate is offered, more precisely zero excise duty for the goods and services that we will deliver to the armed forces of NATO member states, on the territory of Bulgaria. I don't know if you've noticed it's very interesting! Dear colleagues, Bulgarian hospitals are offered here by buying certain goods with excise duty, such as fuels, they will pay the excise duty, but if, for example, the bases of the United States in Bulgaria, because other armed forces here do not come here constantly, right, if they buy goods in Bulgarian territory, they will not pay excise duty. Good afternoon! It's very interesting again! Explain to the Bulgarian hospitals how this works! Furthermore, it was said in the Report, but it was not clarified that already because they had measuring equipment our beautiful and beautiful oil bases will release them from administrative burdens and they will not report to the NRA what is going on. Ladies and gentlemen, the big oil bases, these people, these multimillionaires, because it's a million-dollar business, how we're gonna lighten them with an administrative burden, not to worry if they love the National Revenue Agency, to lighten them up so they can handle themselves and order their millions, because they're very busy people. In conclusion, you here in this law have not thought at all, by changing corporate taxation the Ministry of Finance to have thought that we have companies that do social services and deliver goods and services to Bulgarian health institutions, companies that provide services to Bulgarian education and Bulgarian culture, but otherwise the foreign armed forces will not pay excise! Praise such changes! We will not support them and we will oppose them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not going to support the tax laws package. First of all, because it is not a package again, and in one law, everything is accumulated without having the opportunity to discuss separately the changes in each bill. Well then let's make a tax code and not have a corporate income tax law, a tax law on individuals, excise duties and so on. How many times do we have to talk about this practice being, first, absolutely wrong, and, second, absolutely unnecessary. What are we saving, who are we saving? Thus, you deprive the parliamentary groups to support one law or to reject another law. It is enough to have principled disagreements with some of the texts and to reject the entire tax package. Apart from that, it is absolutely pointless to dwell on the individual texts of increasing tax burden and insurance for farmers, and so on and so forth. We just don't even need to argue our position. You reduce the parliamentary debate to saying from the stand we support or do not support. The arguments are completely unnecessary for you, so we won't give them to you. Our parliamentary group will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Any other speeches? Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u20	My fellow Members, you understand yourself, you suspect rather that we are firmly not going to support this proposed law. I would start with a quote of a very respectable woman, this is the former Minister of Finance Hristina Vucheva, not once repeating it that the last years have happened so that: yes, she says, she has the right to her own opinion, but no one has the right to own facts. The last few years, we've been dealing with the government's own facts. Today's case is typical because I don't remember how many years ago this practice was introduced, but in one law, making changes in six or seven laws I think this is unacceptable. The debates on tax laws have always been more interesting than the debates on the budget, because in the end they form the budget, they make its revenue part. And as it comes to this again, that these four, five, six laws that we are changing them at once, by the way, I do not expect there to be any serious debates today, we have come to the point that a few years ago I do not remember which one of the Presidents of Parliament has reached the point that there have been absolutely no debates. He found himself, hit the hammer and shut himself down. God forbid it is today, because we would very much like to have a debate on these few laws, because they always define the business environment and the business climate. I would like to refer to only a few figures that concern the budget, but we will be looking at it as a result, as far as I know, next Tuesday and Wednesday, which is largely the result of what we are going to vote on today and accept. That is, we will not vote on it, we will vote against it. First, a few words on the topic gross domestic product and how it is obtained, on what it depends and why it is. At first glance, these 3.3.5%, which we will most likely vote next week, are good. But at the same time, I want to remind you of another figure of the numbers given by the National Bank, confirmed by the World Bank. Annually in Bulgaria, between 5 and 5.5 billion. lv. from the Bulgarians we expelled and the Bulgarians who work abroad. It's purely tax-cleaned money, consumption money. And when we brag that a 3% growth in about 120 billion gross domestic product is a magnificent indicator, you understand that only what comes from abroad covers it. The second thing I would like to comment on once again is the so-called Ginny Index from 2018, and the index is an indication of the extent to which there are deviations from imaginary and theoretical rights of full equality. Why am I focusing on this indicator? Because all of what we're accepting today is putting us back in the spiral of increasing inequality. If in Bulgaria in 2008 it was 35%, last year it was 40%. On average, for the European Union it is about 30%. You understand that even in one Turkey there is no such division in society as is here. Another indicator is again on the issue of dissociation in society, which to a large extent today we have to comment on because what the Council of Ministers proposes with changes in laws has a direct correlation to everything. At the moment, we have the largest division in society in the European Union.8.2 times we have a difference between the 20 richest high income groups with 20% lower income. Again, a few words on the topic of economics, because the modern one, as one of your ministers quoted, is the modern one to pay good wages, it is not fashionable to pay low wages. The Bulgarian business, I think, already understood that cutting the branch on which it stands, is stupid. The increase in wages is going at a normal rate. But there are topics that we have been commenting on for years and which, once again, find no reflection in these proposed laws. I think it's time again the Ministry of Finance and we all forced him to look at the accelerated depreciation of software in computer technology. I mean, 100% amortization. I would also like to ask that we look again at the so-called accelerated depreciation of property tax. Times have changed. Understand, 4% depreciation, 25 years depreciation of property tax is a lot. I fully understand the Finances, because in one of my inquiries as President of the Commission to the Minister of Finance, he replied that this has a direct correlation to fiscal and corporate tax. Yeah, that's true, but let's see different versions of the 25 to 20-year-olds, 15-year-olds. How's that gonna affect you? Modern construction technologies suggest otherwise. You can't wait 30 years, 50 years to amortize a building. I want to tell you that with the big noise that raised the Ministry of Finance and Government on the introduction of a weekend tax, we drove the Bulgarian business crazy. Crazy we made them transfer cars, write traffic sheets, keep notebooks all kinds of things. I can inform you of the final result of 12 million. lv. A year, a million a month. I would also like to draw attention to what we do with a garbage charge. For several years now, the government has promised that we are firmly introducing new rules to the waste charge. Year after year we postpone it. We put it off after the mayor's election. What do we do now, GERB? You have won more districts and municipalities, are you going to postpone it again for a few years to wait for the next elections? I think we should put less politics in these things, more reason, not emotions. It's the letter of recommendation. We keep saying the same thing over and over again. You understand that the Ministry of Finance itself creates a gray sector. Who can make it abroad with 35 euros? I refer to these details because by the laws themselves.. Rumen Gechev said it, we between first and second reading have a lot of amendments that we will introduce, but there are conceptual issues, after all we have to ease the business and stop dealing with nonsense. The rate differentiald in VAT. What's so complicated? There was no possibility that the Bulgarian administration could administer it?! Well, the Greeks have the opportunity, the Romanians have the opportunity. In the European Union, the only country without a differentiated rate is Bulgaria. Of course, we've got one for so-called accommodations, tourism events. Are we so stupid and so lost that we can't introduce this, that we have to for certain goods and groups? A few words on the subject of dividends. This sick subject is about what huge dividends business earns and how it steals! I must tell you that individuals distributed 7 billion last year. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, but they've distributed it to 224 thousand people, an average of What's more interesting is for the micro Firms.. 152 thousand companies have distributed 500 million. BGN, an average of about 3 thousand. lv. of a company. We're talking about micro companies! You know these are companies up to nine people. Another interesting subject. We are all crying right now about the free speech index and Bulgaria is very bad, it's closed, there's no freedom, the drama is complete. We're out there, as far as I know, after 115th place. I have to tell you that by what Simeon Djankov once organized and wrote, the so-called Doing Business classification of the World Bank, Bulgaria is in 158th place. Go join someone without having to bribe and wait 180 days! It's the same with the construction permits being pulled in the 140th place. I would like to say two more words to you because the topics of business climate, business conditions are extremely important to us. We, in order to be able to comment on the budget in order to be able to comment on what we are adopting today, at some point we need to focus on these issues. We've been commenting on them for the last time! I am ending as, as far as I can see, time is running out, there are probably other speeches. I once commented on it...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u21	You have plenty of time, go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u22	There's time, then I have no intention of finishing. I'm gonna finish something I told you once 10 years ago. There's a story about the fish and the aquarium. It's been proven that the fish's memory is six seconds. A fish swam in an aquarium, walked around it, and every seventh second the world was new, she saw everything again and everything began to appeal to her and comment on it. I have a feeling that in many cases we, the people in this room, are in the situation of the fish, we have been repeating it for years and years and so far. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u24	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u25	In the manner of conduct and speech? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, it is no accident that I address you, and otherwise the line is in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. It is not normal when tax laws are seen, when they are at the heart of a budget, to keep the government silent. You want us to have a constructive dialogue, we want to take care of the rating of the National Assembly, because for several weeks this has been happening to us constantly, and at the same time to speak only and only the opposition and you to remain silent?! After all, it is quite normal for you to come out and protect these laws! After all, you are not enough to violate the Rules of Procedure by putting them into "Transitional and final provisions" but at the same time you do not go out and defend them! Are you ashamed, don't you approve of them or whatever...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u27	Will you say something to me, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u28	...vote mechanically, but this is not parliamentaryism!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u29	Mr. Stoynev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u30	The most normal thing is for someone to come out... I understand, Mr. Chairman, it is to you, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u31	I'll summon them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u32	...at least someone should say their opinion, it might be different from what was tabled, but at least there could be some debate. Again, it is not normal for a Member of the European Union in a parliamentary state to speak only the opposition. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor with regard to the bill under consideration, first of all, with one objection. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u35	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u36	Yeah, I asked for a time extension. It was appropriate for the Council of Ministers to amend and supplement the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Because, see, for the first time it focuses on this bill and on the reasons, Rumen Gechev said it, an accent that is important to the municipalities, but it is not a topic and they do not have the capacity to solve it. That means there's obviously a problem, and we're just marking it, sweeping it, and we're gonna leave it unsolved. What do I mean? The reasons state that municipal employees are proposed to determine the tax valuation of real estate of the enterprises in the event of a deliberate reduction of their reporting values in order to reduce and avoid payment of the tax for them. And with the proposed increase the powers of municipal employees to determine the tax assessment of the real estate of the enterprises. Now, there is one such question here, which is further back it is described that the municipality can take wealthy persons and go into revision proceedings. Here, a large part of us have been municipal councilors, others in your life have been engaged in entrepreneurship and business, others have been mayors many and different are the cases of how they focus and how reporting values are reported. Personally, I can share that at Smolyan City Hall there is a building that has been acquired with a purchase of 8,000. £900. by accounting value, and it is much more expensive as status and building. Next to it is a building acquired in another way, 200,000 in the same perimeter, and another new building built for a million and 500. How are we going to get the municipal administration to be an arbiter which building costs what and the accounting value is fair or not? Yes, there is a game when certain accountants play with the accounting values because of depreciation, but here are different and many cases and there is no way for the municipal administration to go, to take all these processes to pay for wealthy persons, to go into revision, and after a year or two to get a little more taxes. There's a similar case of this kind in Devon. Yes, more money has come, but will this wishful thinking at the moment enable us to do a justice that is necessary? Secondly, I would like to share this: isn't it necessary at the moment, because with another law and with another legal act, this injustice has been created and why we again the hot potato to give it to the municipalities? I believe that if we had time for a meaningful debate, this issue could be resolved with municipalities, with the Ministry of Finance, with business. I would like to say to you, honourable Members, to make an informed decision, not to vote like this, strongly, as the Council of Ministers is offering it, the mayors of municipalities will enter into some contradictions with the business, and everyone in the campaign has sworn how they will create a good business environment. And since there is injustice, let us not throw them to bring about this injustice! Another is the law, otherwise it can be decided. Finally, I believe that for such activities the municipalities do not have capacity, because the local taxes and fees units do not have opportunities and have no political will to decide how to solve this issue. So here is a rough introduction of municipalities in contradiction with business and therefore creating some conditions that are not good for the environment: attitude of the municipality business. This is not the main problem, however. Since we are looking at the tax law package, the government had to submit the Local Taxes and Fees Act separately, discuss it thoroughly, leave some time with the new authorities that are now elected, and see how these issues can be resolved, including here in this case, and the business is a partner. Otherwise, we will create conditions for witch hunting, which I do not wish for any community, as it will not end its effect. Therefore, dear colleagues, in this part you cannot separate it. We will reject the Law categorically, but we will not have time and opportunity to make a fair proposal, because it is a question of a longer debate. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? Here you go. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u38	Thanks for the applause, fellows on the left! Mrs. Yankova, you're wrong. You are right in this part of your speech, in which you said there was a problem and really used accounting tricks and violations of accounting legislation to have different estimates, tax, in this case accounting, which are declared for companies' properties. However, what is being done at the moment is just an addition to the current article. 21, para. 4 which has given and so far given the opportunity to municipal employees, in the absence of data, when they in one way or another do not receive data from the company about the reporting value of the site, to determine one by means of property, and respectively revision, because this is the way under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for which they are entitled. This is now simply extended for cases where the reporting value is determined in violation of the accounting legislation You know that municipal employees have rights under DODK entirely, like all other audit and control bodies, there are mechanisms in DODC for how, when there are violations of accounting legislation, the true value can be determined. That's what you're doing right now. Therefore, what you are saying that municipalities do not have such capacity, perhaps you have reason, maybe not all municipalities, but smaller municipalities, but I do not know how it could be decided. Perhaps you suggest we return local taxes and fees to the NRA? Because years ago it was precisely at the insistence of the municipalities, and I very much doubt that they would agree with this, local taxes and fees passed not only on administration, but also on control of the respective municipalities. I think it's more right because they know the region, they know their subjects and they could do this control better. So I don't see any drama in this text. If, in your opinion, it creates a requirement for municipalities that they cannot cope with their capacity, there is a way to learn and implement the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there another line? I can't see. Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! I am not suggesting that we return to the NRA the collection of local taxes and fees, but you know that in a large city, a large municipality is the owners who have assets of industrial enterprises, or in other words, and they have their own accounting value. How and who will this person be who will find that there, see, there is doubt? For example! Either intrigue, or framing, or smashing, or something else! If, for example, we give a deadline, let's review everything in the enterprises, make an analysis. This very few municipalities can do it and the capacity will not, and my doubt is yes, there is a problem, but my doubt is that we will create conditions for witch hunting. And in the end, perhaps business and municipalities in the next period will have to go in their relations. One possibility is, but there is no capacity and the effect that is marked as a problem will not be achieved. We give an instrument to the municipalities, if they don't like it somewhere, to push and push and thus create a condition for corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is indeed quite disturbing that the adoption of tax laws, which are the basis of the next year's budget to be adopted, passes without any major debate and as proposals are presented to the National Assembly at the last possible moment. Colleagues talked about some of the problems that do not justify supporting this bill. I'll add a few more examples to them. The transitional provisions, as you have understood, make many changes to other laws, including § 17, amend the Law on Value Added Tax, in which, notice, there is essentially the introduction of value added tax on the transfer of shares or shares which give their holders legal or factual property rights on a new real estate or part of it. In a word, as a result of this change, it is envisaged the VAT on the transfer of company shares. It makes sense to look for optimization and the introduction of this type of restrictions because it is a fact that there is a circumvention by the taxable persons for payment of VAT, trying to transfer company shares or shares with which they essentially transfer the order to immovable property. But so made this change, without any prior discussion, at the last moment gives an extremely unpleasant signal to the entire business environment in Bulgaria, gives an unpleasant signal to Bulgarian and foreign investors and allows the Administration of Revenue at its sole discretion to cause certain revisions, the possibility of requiring and charging VAT in such normal transactions as the transfer of shares, of company shares between companies or individuals. I believe that with this type of significant legislative change the business environment cannot be taxed so without taking the relevant arguments, discussions and debates at that and without having a very clear effect on the entire business climate of the country. The colleagues said a few words about the changes made in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Indeed, and there it is intended to correct the vicious practices by reducing the reporting value of real assets in enterprises and circumvention to the full amount of local taxes and fees, but we believe that the appropriate way has not been found again. If there is such a problem, and there is, there should be a change in the norms leading to the creation of these prerequisites and not a transfer of such powers to municipalities, which they will very hardly fulfil. In essence, you do not say anything about the changes you propose in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, you say nothing about the upcoming criminal procedure on Bulgaria about the way the charge is determined and the waste charge is determined, and you know that there we are in serious violation and once again we will postpone the introduction of the principle............................ and thus we threaten the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian citizens from the relevant criminal sanctions that the European Commission may impose on us. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u44	My fellow Members, I will speak very briefly. Firstly, this bill and the amending and supplemental bills, which are in the Transitional and Final Regulations, are in 90% of their volume transposing directives. Apart from the texts transposing the new things in the directives, there are several provisions that concern reducing the administrative burden of taxpayers, which everyone in this House should naturally support, as well as the transposition of the directives, and several provisions that make an adjustment in order to prevent the possibility of avoiding tax payments. These provisions are mainly in the Value Added Tax Act, perhaps also that provision that Mrs. Yankova talked about in the Local Taxes and Fees Act. I want to say two things here, from this tribune. Firstly, I do not agree with the fact that there was not enough time to discuss that there was not enough time to take different opinions. The law was seen in the Committee on Budget and Finance on 9 October 2019. Today we are 6 November 2019. It's a month later. I think anyone who wanted to seek different opinions and discussions of the texts could have done so. But here, from this tribune, we have not heard any concrete things that colleagues disagree with or have different opinions or different proposals. Secondly, I would like to say that the bill is not just a bill and reasons for it. There are two other important parts. The first of them is the impact assessment, where the numbers in question are located, the figures a colleague on the left was talking about, which show exactly what we expect as an impact on business and on the budget. But even more important is a large, thick table, in which is the whole public discussion that has happened in every single text. There are the opinions and opinions of both businesses, various NGOs, individuals who have decided to take the attitude and the response of the administration to them. So by no means do I agree that there was no discussion. In this sense, I believe that there was no debate here because there was nothing to debate. Once again, six European directives for which the entire House must agree that they must be transposed, several provisions that concern a reduction in administrative burden. I hope that we will have a common agreement on this and several provisions that you may not support, but their aim is only to avoid the possibility on the part of taxpayers to hide the taxes, which seems to me that all of us here, too, in this House, must support. Because you're talking about a gray economy, and its manifestation is in tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! Firstly, I want it to be very clear, College Stoyanova, that our parliamentary group is not against the directives of the European Union and we have made it very clear. However, we are opposed to pushing other texts into a series of laws - seven others in practice, which have a serious impact on the country's budget revenues. And, secondly, will affect the fate of a number of Bulgarian companies. So we have to divide these things. Thirdly, we cannot agree, Mrs. Stoyanova, that by entering the website of our Budget Committee and Parliament, there are no opinions. It is not acceptable for the government and the relevant committee in which the majority have the government to edit their opinions, to make some nice tables and to give them to us who wants to walk in the tables edited by the government. No, there's the title of "Stunovosts" there, Mrs. Stoyanova, and these opinions must have been uploaded there, but they haven't. Finally, the most important thing is that you know it, please put pressure on the Minister of Finance if necessary. Otherwise, by not presenting any estimates, Mrs. Stoyanova, we will propose that we rename the Ministry of Finance as a example of............. the Ministry of Finance.......................... they write essays and literature.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u48	If they like, bring numbers! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u49	Thank you. Another line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u50	I don't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-11-06.u51	Colleagues, any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 902-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 188 MPs: 104, against 81, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, in the Northern foyer will be opened the exhibition "The Hungarian Parliament" dedicated to friendship between the Bulgarian and Hungarian Parliament, the long-term relations between the two peoples. The exhibition shows the history of the Hungarian Parliament from its design and construction to this day. All MPs are invited! Next regular plenary session on 7 November 2019 at 9.00 p.m., according to the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
