ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with the first item for today: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTERY OF THE TURISM OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE WORLD ORGANIZATION IN TOURISM TO THE UN ON THE COST OF THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSION OF THE WORLD CIVILISATION AND THE EARTHAL MARSHRUTS OF SOT. To inform you that parliamentary control will begin immediately after the adoption of this point. Colleagues, let me read you a message. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for participation in a multinational exercise for the period from 28 June to 13 July 2019 by its order he has authorised the dispatch of military personnel from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to the territory of the Republic of Ukraine with equipment, ammunition and equipment. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 27 June 2019. No 903-09-33 and granted to the Defence Committee. For the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report Mr. Kanev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u2	Colleagues, first clearance in the hall. On the basis of art. 49 of our Rules of Procedure please support the admission in the hall of Lyuben Kanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u3	Please vote on the procedure for admission to the hall. Vote 155 MPs: 153, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. There's a procedure by Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President! Honourable Members of the National Assembly, right here yesterday, from the parliamentary tribune, our parliamentary group for Bulgaria (BSP) wished and invited through the President of the National Assembly the Minister of Health to come to parliament in connection with his statement on restructuring or, in other words, to close wards in hospitals in the districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. Today we invite the Minister to come here again. It concerns an entire region in Bulgaria, the whole of Northwestern Bulgaria, where people will practically not have access to health care as either quality or timely. This is a very serious and serious problem. It does not concern one or two districts, but the whole of Northwestern Bulgaria. Please, Madam President, again invite the Minister of Health to come and explain what he meant and what we will do with the hospitals in Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. They're state hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Yesterday the minister was engaged. I'll look for him again today and let you know. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u6	♪ I can't believe under a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism at the UN on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at a meeting held on 19 June 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organization of the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Tourism Mrs. Irena Georgieva, who presented the bill. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to establish a legal basis for the implementation of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the historical routes of the World Tourism Organisation in Sofia from 14 to 16 November 2018. In 2016, Bulgaria hosted the first edition of the convention, with a huge success and attracted more than 800 participants from over 40 countries. The second International Congress considered possible ways in which traditions related to ancient civilizations and tourism could resume. Congress analyzes the role of tourism and ancient routes in creating new socio-economic opportunities for local development, promoting material and intangible ancient heritage. The agreement that was signed between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism of the United Nations (UNT) is a document signed by the organisation with each of the parties in the organization of joint events. The signing of such an agreement is due to the requirements and measures imposed by the UN in organising events by its specialised agencies. The Annexes to the Agreement describe in detail the commitments on the conduct of the Second International Congress of the Ministry of Tourism and the World Tourism Organisation. The World Tourism Organisation itself is a specialized UN agency and a leading public international organisation in the field of tourism with membership covering 158 countries and territories and more than 500 partner members representing the private sector, educational institutions, tourism associations and local tourist authorities. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1 points 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism of the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the World Tourism Organisation should be ratified by a law of the National Assembly. After a vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism to the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the World Tourism Organisation, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. They won't let you out of the stands. They'll take you out on an encore.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u8	Colleagues, there will be an encore because we will vote on two readings today. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u9	For the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please come in, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism of the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. At its meeting on 19 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organization of the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Georgieva, who pointed out that the draft proposed to ratify the Agreement on the Implementation of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the World Organisation for Tourism to the United Nations, signed on 8 October 2018 in Madrid. The Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism and the World Tourism Organisation lays down the conditions for holding the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and Historical Routes, which took place in the period 14 November 2018 in Sofia. The Congress explores the possibilities for the renewal of traditions related to ancient civilizations and tourism, and analyzes the role of tourism and ancient routes in creating socio-economic opportunities for local development. Ms. Georgieva added that the Republic of Bulgaria has been a member of the UN World Tourism Organisation since 1979, with the Ministry of Tourism actively participating in all events of the Organization. The Deputy Minister noted that within the framework of the Twenty-second General Assembly of the World Tourism Organisation held in the city of Chengdu, the People's Republic of China, Bulgaria was elected Vice-President of the Regional Commission of the Europe Programme for 2018 and added that the First International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism, held in 2016 in Sofia, attracted over 800 participants from 40 countries and presented the rich ancient culture of Bulgaria and a number of countries from around the world. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the United Nations without the opposition and abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism to the United Nations on the implementation of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the Russian Federation, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. I don't see anyone, so I'm going to put the bill to the vote. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organization of the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the World Tourism Organisation, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 124 MPs: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u12	Colleagues, since I accepted your applause after reading the Report, as a call to vote on Ratification and at second reading, I propose the following solution: on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure I propose that the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism of the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT, No 902-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2019, should be adopted on a second vote, as no proposals for amendment and supplement of the Law were made during the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u13	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Now you can present the bill, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u14	Project! LAW on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism at the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the SOT A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Organisation for Tourism at the United Nations on the conduct of the Second International Congress of World Civilizations and the Historical Routes of the Security Council, signed on 8 October 2018 in Madrid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the name of the bill, and the second is the content of a member only, as presented to you. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted, with which we have completed the legislative part. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 21 June to 27 June 2019 A question was received from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov to Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Health with regard to personnel security with medical specialists. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 5 July 2019. Written responses were received from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the Parliamentary Representative Aleksandar Paunov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Sawateva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Tsvetan Topchiev and Nikolay Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u16	Dear MPs, we are starting today's parliamentary control with a question to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. He will answer a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev about the cocoa processing plant "Alkao" Ltd., the town of Parvomay. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, welcome to the court! The question of smells, which broadcasts the Cocoa Processing Factory, which is located in the town of Parvomay on the street of Knyaz Boris I. No 80, is presented to me on numerous receptions in the town of Parvomay. The plant has been in operation since June 2017. According to the city's residents since then, the plant almost continuously emits a smell that prevents normal life. It is next to the municipal hospital in the central part of the city. During these years, organised by an initiative committee, citizens have repeatedly addressed institutions to receive an answer, but have not received one so far. They have addressed the municipality and all other necessary institutions to obtain any answer on this issue. My questions to you, Minister, are: are you familiar with the problem? Is there a check carried out regarding the smell that emits the cocoa processing plant in the city of Parvomay, and what are the results? What will you take to solve the problem of people living in the city of Parvomay?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear Minister, come in for an answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, in 2014 according to the requirements of the environmental legislation in the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate of Plovdiv, a procedure was carried out to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment for an investment proposal: In the framework of the assessment of the Regional Health Inspectorate, Plovdiv and the Municipality of Parvomay, was co-ordinated with the Regional Health Inspectorate. During the procedure in the opinion of RZI Plovdiv, no data on the occurrence of health risk for the population in the implementation of the investment proposal are presented. No oral or written complaints, objections and opinions have been received from the inhabitants of the town of Parvomay against the realization of the investment proposal. The decision is not contested and has entered into legal force. A total of three signals for the presence of a suffocating smell of cocoa from the production activity of Alkao. The experts of the inspection carried out on-the-spot checks, including a tour of the area around "Alkao" Ltd., where there are no punctuations of unpleasant smells. On 14 June 2019 by experts of RIEW Plovdiv, a sudden check was carried out on the company Alkao. A survey has been carried out on the site of the site and outside its borders on the perimeter of the fence on the outside. No acute suffocating smell of cocoa was detected. RIEW Plovdiv will continue to control the sites of implementation of the applicable environmental legislation regulatory requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Georgiev, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I have a request. There are citizens from the town of Parvomay. If you have the opportunity, then pay attention to them because they have additional questions for you. Let's not go to the Ministry, we're here anyway. It's really unbearable the smell of people living near the plant, and this problem needs to be solved. They have some ideas and suggestions for solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u22	I don't want to take a line after I'm done calling.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u24	I think we've been working things out. Let's move on to the second question. He is from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov on pollution of the Struma river in the municipality of Pernik. For the guests of the balcony, the minister made a commitment to a meeting because it wasn't heard in the microphone. Mr. Vladimirov, I'm sorry to interrupt. Here you are, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimov, several times in recent months, residents of Pernik have signalled to me about pollution of the Struma River with various chemicals that obscure water or change colour. In the areas around the river there is a suffocating smell, and after passing the contaminated spots, there are numerous dead fish around the shore, sometimes birds. The problem has been posed by citizens to the local administration and RIEW repeatedly, but until now the sources of pollution have not been identified and no measures have been taken to prevent subsequent ones. Many industrial enterprises are located along the Struma River, and in the words of Pernik some of them are responsible for the frequent pollution of water. On 11 June 2019, around 20.30 residents of Pernik once again signaled to me about pollution of river waters, this time with huge white foam stains. On 14 June 2019, I received another signal that the water was cloudy and its colour was grey-brown. This is another example of river pollution, and I hope the answer from the competent institutions for it is not the same as the previous ones, and it has always been: pollution has not been found. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what measures will you take to prevent future pollution on the Struma River, finding and sanctioning the guilty?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, as far as you are aware of the powers of RIEW and the Swimming Directorate specifically on the issues you have put forward, two signals have been received recently. As a result of a signal received on 11 June 2019 for white foam in the tub of the Struma river in the section of the bridge of the district of Mosino. Localized leak of water with white foam from a rainy concrete collector located on the left bank of the river and leaving after the bridge in the district of Mosino. Organically, no smell of chemical or foul processes has been detected and no dead fish have been found in all the areas checked. In order to establish the source of contaminated water, checks have been carried out on the production sites in the area through which the concrete collector passes. No foam marks were found in the inspection shafts on their playgrounds. However, according to documents, companies have contracts with the city of Pernik, for delivery, extraction and purification of their waste water, with three of them:..Magma again......Puratos.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For one of the companies with activity production of cosmetic products, there is no establishment for the discharge of industrial waste water, but from the information received it is clear that the company pays to the city of Pernik, fee and discharge of a channel, and purification. In relation to the unregulated discharge found in the rain collector, regulations are given to the Municipality of Pernik to take action to stop the discharge of waste water. The Municipality of Pernik has stated readiness to carry out an inspection. In connection with a signal for contamination of the Struma river with a hose and a prescription given to the RIEW, Pernik, Toplofication on 25th 2019 AD has notified the Inspection for the implementation of the prescription by performing replacement and installation activities of a pipeline of about 700 meters for transportation of a secured mass. On 14 June 2019 in compliance with the conditions under complex permit "Topplofication" "Pernik" AD informs RIOS of accidents in another section and that immediate measures have been taken to stop the leak of hose waters to the Struma River. In relation to the signals received on the same date for the grey-brown colour of the waters of the Struma river, a view of the tub of the Struma river was carried out and no dead fish were found. Three criminal decrees of a total size of 32 thousand were issued for the found pollution of the Struma River of the Thermal Pernik. lv. The river Struma in the territory of Pernik municipality is a water body in moderate environmental condition according to the river basin management plan on the territory of the Western Black Sea Region for the period 2016 - 2021. The goal that is set is the body according to the River Basin Management Plan to achieve a good state of water by 2027, with measures being taken in this regard to achieve the goal. In connection with a measure for the construction, reconstruction and modernisation of the sewerage system, including the City water treatment plant, the town of Pernik is expected to be launched this year for the development of a regional pre-investment survey for the beneficiary territory of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, financed through the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014-2020, which will identify the necessary funds and specific investment projects in the VAC sector for the entire administrative area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u28	Thank you. Mr. Vladimirov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister! I went to all the trouble of making pictures. [[shows photos]] For the condition of the Struma River, I will then give them to you as well, because I remained with the feeling that the RIEW Pernik did not provide you with all the information. Whether it was intentional or simply to minimize the extent of the damage that was in the pollution [[shows more pictures]] , according to the comments of the local head of RIEW Mr. Angelov................... not to confuse his name... it was harmless foam. Pernicans, of course, joke with a bitter feeling that it was even useful to fish because they were going to bathe it. Look at the color! [[Shows picture.]] If, according to local RIEW, this is harmless pollution because this gray-brown color, without being an expert, I still think it's not harmless another contamination of the Struma River. I've asked you quite often questions about ecology in Pernik region and air quality, and about the Struma River, you remember, about Pchelina Dam, about that hydroelectric power plant that caused a lot of damage. You then took very quick steps towards actually overcoming the damage from pollution then. This time, however, I told you, you have apparently saved enough information on the scale of the pollution of the Struma River. My request to you is really to do a more detailed check in the local RIEW, because the feeling of the Perniks is that this structure is a butaphorical structure, of which quite often the aspiration and aim is to conceal violations by some companies, instead of taking specific measures, to take certain actions the Struma River should not be polluting. I hope for more serious measures regarding the quality of work of the local RIEW. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, come in. I see you're ready with an addition to your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u31	Dear Mr. Vladimirov, of course, I always take citizens' signals seriously, especially from the MPs, and an inspection will be carried out. You say they want to cover up, but for the brown helmet I was talking about, there are three penal decrees that came into force, with 32,000. lv. a sanction that is hardly a cover-up, on the contrary, has been taken in an emergency situation, as I said in my reply. That's one case. The other one you showed with the white foam, in practice, when all businesses have contracts with a water company, we need to see why the water company and what is entrusted to the municipality of Pernik is required to carry out an inspection... The fact is that three have been found to be left in this concrete collector and measures need to be taken there. I will take care of it, which is within the authority of the regional inspection. I started from the very beginning, you know very well that there is a division of authorities, a division of powers, so that what is within the powers of RIEW Pernik will be called upon and I will inform you of my actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are no more questions for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are questions to Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister of Justice. The first question is from the National Representative Krum Zarkov on the implementation of the Project Modernization of the Penitentiary System in Bulgaria. Mr. Zarkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister! In the period December 2016 - December 2018 the Ministry of Justice implemented the project Modernization of the Penitential System in Bulgaria. 724 thousand. BGN 723. The main objectives of the project are the preparation of a Strategy for Modernization of these systems by 2025 and the implementation of electronic monitoring of the persons designated by the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. It's about placing devices that are popular like bracelets. On 14 June this year, Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Nikolay Prodanov publicly summarized the results of the project and announced that such a strategy was developed and that 12 offenders were placed under electronic surveillance, while two others were controlled by another method. However, these achievements are far from the objectives set out in the project itself. According to him, during the implementation period, i.e. by the end of last year, the strategy had to be developed and approved by the Minister of Justice. Even more striking is the delay in electronic surveillance, which should have affected at least 250 people or ten times more than it actually affected today, or rather by April, when it was the last hit. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: at what stage is it and how do you anticipate the development of the strategy for modernisation of the penitentiary system? What measures does the Ministry of Justice take to make a wider application of the possibility of electronic monitoring of convicted and detained under house arrest?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u34	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, dear Mr. Zarkov! By order of the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Punishment the system for electronic surveillance of offenders has been put into service as of 23 April 2019. Currently, under electronic surveillance are put in place, as you said, 12 persons: 10 persons with restrictions on free movement and 2 persons with measures imposed. During the first year of operation of the electronic surveillance system, efforts shall be made to reach the optimal number of offenders placed under electronic surveillance. The proposed results are subject to the acts of the judicial authorities in accordance with their competences. Following the launch of the system, measures have been taken to notify the professional leadership of the General Directorate of the National Police for the technical readiness of the territorial services, of the Directorate General for Punishment to apply electronic surveillance to persons with a measure of non-violence................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the short term, a formal notification of the functionality of the electronic surveillance system for offenders is envisaged to be made to the presidents of the district courts in the country. If necessary, local meetings will also be initiated with the judicial authorities to familiarize them with the advantages of electronic surveillance as a form of control, movement and behaviour of persons. In connection with activity 1 of the Project was developed and approved by my order Strategy for the Development of the Pediatric System in Bulgaria for the period until 2025. This is where I'll leave a copy of the warrant for you to meet. [[Leaves the document to the bank.]] The document is based on the requirements of international human rights legal documents, the study of good foreign practices in this area, European standards for the democratisation of institutions and for the welfare of lawbreakers, by formulating the main strategic objectives, measures and actions to achieve them, as well as the expected results of their implementation. The preparation of the Strategy takes into account internal and international acts and standards in the area of punishment, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, Recommendation No REU (2006)2 of the Committee of Ministers of the Member States on European Prison Rules, the Law on the Implementation of Punishments and the Rules for its Implementation, the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform and the roadmap thereto. I'll stop there if I have the chance, I'll add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, you'll probably take the attitude you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm gonna take advantage of this case to make it look good. I am glad that on June 27th you approved the Strategy that is six months after the deadline scheduled for the issue, but better late than never. I appeal to you to continue working on this issue, as this strategy must be approved by the Council of Ministers, to upload it to the website for public discussion, so that the procedure can be initiated. This is not a nagging issue, but a very important issue, as the penitentiary system in the prison case has a direct bearing on the security of Bulgarian citizens. The following questions can now be answered if you are ready: what are the levels of relapse of those people who have been in prison and then go out and continue to behave improperly and continue to commit crimes? Jail is not only a cell that we need to paint the welfare of prisoners is also important, but its main goal is to punish, re-educate, create conditions for reintegration. This requires particularly important efforts also in preparing the guards who are at the first stage in this real struggle and in the way in which this system is being operated in a comprehensive, long-term way. That is why the project is set on the Strategy to affect a sufficiently long period of time until 2025. There have been such strategies before, but they have been, as far as I am aware, related to the way the Directorate-General is operating, which is also an important issue. But the work must continue and I ask you to engage the entire government and society with this task. With regard to the issue of electronic surveillance. Please answer me: what is the reason for this delay? The project clearly explained that the number of offenders to be applied the electronic surveillance within the project is 250 people. We are familiar with the delays that have accumulated in the procurement, but if the bracelets or devices, the software was ready by the end of last year, why and what is the obstacle not yet placed on enough people so that the system can actually produce an effect? My question is: what is the reason for this delay? The more clearly we identify this reason, the easier it will be to find an answer to overcome the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Dear Minister, please complete the answer and, if possible, respond to the new questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zarkov, thank you for your clarification. I would like to make the following clarification in relation to this project, which is subject to implementation and currently its implementation has ended with an abbreviation contract BG 05SFOP0013001005C of 1 December 2016, concluded by Annex for the continuation of the Treaty until 30 June 2019 and the Supplementary Agreement was signed on 12 December. That is to say, both major actions on this project were carried out and completed within the time limit in terms of the Strategy, the second in terms of electronic monitoring. These numbers for 12 persons under electronic surveillance refer to the test period of application of this monitoring system. This is not the scope of the first application, of the already effective application, of this monitoring method. It's in a test period, as required by the Project. I believe that the specifics of the activity also require such tests and tests. As you are familiar with the statements of the Deputy Minister of Justice Prof. Prodanov, both the devices and the persons to be tested for this observation have been carefully refined, so I think that by July 1st we will be able to effectively, with the volume that you are saying to 250 people, to apply this method of observation. On the second question, you are absolutely right about the Strategy. I have high expectations of her, too. We had a debate on that. We have set an extremely ambitious objective in this strategy, and it must be discussed and adopted publicly. Besides now the project under the Norwegian mechanism for a new training centre and a new prison in Samoravo, we have placed in this strategy building a new prison in Sofia, outside the project funds under the Norwegian financial mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is also raised by the MP Krum Zarkov and he refers to the implementation of the Project Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My second question also concerns a draft of the Ministry of Justice, which was implemented in July 2017. "Dember 2018" This project is no more than the preparation of a new concept of penal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its total value is 397 thousand. 893 lv. and includes an extremely ambitious task for a detailed analysis of the criminogenic environment, of the effectiveness of the imposed and endured penalties, of the impact of the previous concept, which ended as of 2014, of the application of the Penal Code and others. The project aims to develop and organise a discussion of a new conceptual document covering a five-year future period and to help implement joint and coordinated action by the three authorities in the field of crime-fighting. In December last year, in the presence of Deputy Minister Evgeni Stoyanov, if I am not mistaken, there was a public presentation of data and analyses in connection with the implementation of the project. Analysis of the data collected, identification of key factors and definition of the current picture of the criminogenic situation was also discussed at a meeting of the Council on the implementation of the updated Strategy for Continuing Judicial Reform. These empirical data have not yet been used or at least not publicly visible to draw up a concept of criminal policy as set out in the Project. Such a concept has not been published or presented for discussion. Dear Minister, I therefore ask you to answer: at what stage is the drafting of the new concept of criminal policy and when do you foresee the necessary public discussions in view of its possible adoption by the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, dear Mr. Zarkov! The project "New concept of criminal policy" implemented under the Operational Program "Good management" includes as a study of the average activities: Activity 1 "Research of the criminal environment and trends in it; Activity 2 "Assessment of the implementation of the concept of criminal policy 2010" 2014 and an analysis of the implementation of the Criminal Code; Activity 3 "Development of a new concept of criminal policy; Activity 4 "Comments for information and communication." These activities are preceded by the production of the new concept of a policy of default and are implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Public Procurement Act. According to the Law, the Ministry of Justice awarded public procurement on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender, quality indicators and technical parameters. Each activity has its chronological stage of implementation and the first two activities are preparatory. Activity 3 is currently being implemented. As regards the fourth activity relating to information and communication measures, it shall take place throughout the implementation phase of the project. As a result of the effective management of the funds, a free financial resource of nearly half of the amount allocated for the implementation of the project was provided, with the Ministry of Justice as a beneficiary taking appropriate action to reduce the initially envisaged budget of the project. In view of the necessary technological time until the completion of public procurement and the implementation of the envisaged activities and in view of the use of the new concept, analyses and proposals for changes which are the subject of development within the framework of the activity 1...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Currently, activity 3 is being implemented. A new concept of criminal policy is being developed by my order and a team of experts with different experience in the field of criminal policy, including magistrates in criminal cases referred to by the Supreme Court of Cassation, representatives of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. In the development of the Project of the New Concept of Criminal Policy, the strategic documents in the area of the Strategy for Judicial Reform, the Strategy for Countering Crime, the Anti-Corruption Strategy will be contacted. The deadline for carrying out the task before the expert group is until 23 August 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u44	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Thank you also for your commitment and for the clear dates. As on my previous question, you have committed yourself to an order from yesterday, so you inform me today that there is a warrant, a clearly formed group and deadlines for implementation - August 23rd, as I understand it will be ready such a project, which should be discussed and adopted by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u47	These are clear deadlines for a truly ambitious and important task, and as described in the Project itself, such a concept is important in order to achieve efficiency in the application of criminal law, as well as to prevent that phenomenon, which in the doctrine calls criminal law populism and which we often face here, in this Chamber, when different proposals under the Penal Code come for various reasons, but always by the same method we raise the penalty to, you see, we demonstrate some activity. Usually, unfortunately, this does not work, people continue to feel that there is insufficient justice, that the penalty process is not effective enough, that penalties are not strict enough. The real, real answer, the responsible answer to this is a comprehensive, thorough policy based on the situation as it is on those factors that affect crime, so that the National Assembly is aware of what direction it will be going in the coming years, where the repression needs to be strengthened, where more prevention should be applied than repression, so that we can actually achieve a result, and not waste just parliamentary time in adopting laws that we later cancel or change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Will there be an asshole, Minister? You have the floor, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for your opinion. It coincides with my understanding of the fundamental and principled issues that are the scope of a criminal policy. Yes, unfortunately, we are facing the challenges of populism in penal policy, and I would even say in administrative penal policy lately. I would like to share my conviction on the implementation of the first two stages of this project. The analysis made in the criminogenic environment will indeed serve as a serious basis for an in-depth analysis. Including yesterday, I met with representatives of the team, who were appointed by this order, which is ambitious and I would say seriously professionally prepared. I expect that in their work there will indeed be a serious result that will serve as a basis for public discussions in the fourth phase of this project. I am using this case to invite all my fellow Members to participate in these debates in this topic and in the law at all, because it is a principled and very serious issue which really determines, including legislative activity and our approaches in other elements in relation to criminal law and trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Justice is asked by the National Representative Plamen Nunev. Mr. Nunev, you have the floor to develop the issue of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, two weeks ago within the framework of the Romanian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the last Justice and Home Affairs Council was held. It covered topics such as digitization in the area of justice, as well as mutual recognition of criminal matters. In the light of the above, I ask you to answer me in more detail and in particular: what positions have been expressed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria in the part of the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nunev, my participation in the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg was in line with the positions previously approved by the Council on European Affairs and by the Council of Ministers on the topics on the agenda: digitising judicial cooperation, mutual recognition in criminal matters, as well as improving access to electronic evidence in the criminal process. On the topic of digitising judicial cooperation, the proposals for a Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1393/2007 on the service of documents and a Council Regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1206/2001 on the collection of evidence were discussed and Member States confirmed their support for the need to modernise judicial cooperation in cross-border civil law proceedings. We have expressed our opinion that the use of a decentralised system would be an appropriate option, as this approach will take into account existing national information systems. Our position on this issue was in line with the Opinion of the Administration of the Supreme Judicial Council. Regarding the next steps in the field of mutual recognition in criminal matters at European level, Bulgaria pointed out that the main topics identified in the Presidency Report, namely the consequences of mutual recognition of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the training of practitioners, the role of EUROUS and the European Judicial Network in criminal cases. The identification of deficiencies in the implementation of some of the mutual recognition instruments provides guidance for future work in the field of cooperation in criminal matters. I have expressed my conviction that common solutions should be found to facilitate, to the maximum extent, the work of judicial authorities, for example, the development of recommended forms of information on conditions in prisons, which has been identified as a problem by a number of Member States; improved and facilitated access to different training modules, including through modern information technologies. It is also essential to increase awareness of differences in legal systems in Member States and how this affects mutual representation instruments. On the subject of improving access to electronic evidence in the criminal process, the Council approved the texts of recommendations for decisions on the opening of negotiations on agreements between the European Union and the United States on cross-border access to electronic evidence and decisions authorising participation in negotiations on the Second Additional Protocol to the Convention on Cybercrime, called the Budapest Convention. In the negotiations with the United States, Bulgaria supported the joint reference to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union proposed in the approved terms of reference to the data provision guarantees. We find it positive that the negotiating mandate for the conclusion of an agreement with the United States will improve cooperation with service providers under US jurisdiction for the purpose of investigating crimes. I'll add more if I have the chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u54	Thank you, dear Minister. Will there be a line, Mr. Nunev? No. Mr. Minister, this concludes your involvement. Thank you, dear Minister, for your information and detailed answers to the questions asked. Good luck to you! Next are questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov. The first one is from the MP Anton Kutev. Mr. Kutev has submitted a question regarding the information provided by the Ministry of Interior about a person accused of terrorism. Dear Mr. Kutev, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, this is about that notorious case in Plovdiv where he was arrested, as I recall, a 16-year-old teenage man. I'll try to recreate the case, make it clear what the question I'm asking is. The young man obviously falls under some false influence, false propaganda. By the way, this, as far as I know, of 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds in teenage years happens often... they don't always fall under the influence of some terrorist organizations, but they happen to fall under sexual influences, under the influence of religious sects and such, or pseudo-religious rather. So nothing surprising is there in that a teenager is somehow going in the wrong direction... this, unfortunately, is part of the society we live in. By the way, the good thing about this case is that apparently the parents are signaling the Ministry of Interior because they see that there is some confusion, that there is some problem they cannot deal with, and they are signaling the Ministry of Interior, for which I congratulate them. That is, in my opinion, an absolutely dignified act. They signal the Ministry of Interior probably with the idea that they are waiting for help from there. The Ministry of Interior is doing a raid at home, finding explosive materials, as I understand it, a lot of explosive materials. The fact is that these explosive materials can be bought on the free market and that they do not require special delivery. If I'm wrong about this factology, then you'll fix me, of course, I wasn't involved in the investigation and I'm not sure I know everything. Either way, there are some explosive materials that can be bought on the free market, but they're dangerous and they're a lot. The Ministry of Interior arrested the young man. If this was the end of the story, you and I wouldn't be seeing each other now and everything would be within normal limits, at least that's what it would look like to me. Someone was going to help this young man... whether the Children's Pedagogical Room, whether otherwise, would have found some ways to develop for the good. Instead of this, however, the Ministry of Interior is actually holding a press conference on 8 June 2019, to which it reports, among other things, of a prevented terrorist attack. It's a very serious job. Suddenly it turns out that this young man is an attacker, he may turn into one moment, but I am very interested, however, who has made the decision for this press conference? I am very interested in who is the person who thought it was a good idea for the Ministry of Interior to give a press conference on this subject? Don't you have any other victories in the fight against crime, so that's what it was that you decided to give a press conference and brag about how strong you are and how the Ministry of Interior prevented a terrorist attack? It seemed more appropriate to me to say that the parents were preventing it because they actually informed you that there was a problem to go arrest the young man and eventually, I don't even know if you should ask them to help you in other cases. If you don't have anything else to report accordingly, you might want to ask the parents for assistance, because they seem to be working better than the Ministry of Interior. This is where the biggest problem comes in. Apparently, cluttered in the severe bloody fight against terrorism and crime, the Ministry of Interior leaks information to the media, including the name of the young man, the street, the school where he studies, his address, the Facebook profile, meaning everything becomes clear. Everything to one in this case is personal data. Here I wonder: how does this really happen? I mean, if this is really a fight against terrorism, as you announced in the press conference, how do you leak data from the Ministry of Interior? So if you're fighting real terrorism, how does it happen that all the data of the so-called terrorist is in the media before your press conference? Because they're from the day before the press conference in the media, which means they're obviously leaked somehow. So my question to you is: how did this data leak out, who exported the data, on what basis, and in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u57	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kutev, in relation to your question, I would like to assure you that the authorities of the Ministry of Interior strictly respect principles not to disclose personal data which have become known to them in connection with and in connection with the performance of their duties. This applies especially when it comes to personal data of minors suspected of committing illegal acts. The very export of such data by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior completely contradicts the Law. As regards the specific case in Plovdiv, after publications in the media and in order to clearly clarify the allegations of leaking information, by my Order of 13 June 2019, I ordered the Directorate of Homeland Security in the Ministry of Interior to carry out a complex and detailed inspection for possible unlawful provision of official information by the Ministry of Interior officials to third parties. The verification shall be completed by 1 July 2019. As for the briefing quoted by you on 8 June 2019, I can inform you that the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior took part in it. He provided information to the media about participation in the case of employees from the Children's Pedagogical Room. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that no personal data related to this case have been provided to the briefing quoted by you, as well as to subsequent events for the media representatives with the involvement of the Ministry of Interior officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for the line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u59	Dear Minister, I am deeply puzzled by your answer, even though it was not unexpected for me. He wakes up in front of me a whole series of questions. The first, of course, already asked: who decided that giving such a press conference was a good idea at all? You say it's in response to media publications. Press releases are about an action by the Ministry of Interior, which has a citizen arrested. The information has obviously leaked from the Ministry of Interior.. there is no other place, media information does not come from anywhere other than the Ministry of Interior, and when it comes to the actions of the Ministry of Interior, that is to say that there are at least two policemen who know what this is about. The next question that comes to mind is, do you think that any parent will allow themselves to inform the Ministry of Interior of information that is disturbing to his child after everything that has happened to this young man? If we happen to be in the same situation after one, three or five years, will there be a naive and foolish parent enough to provide the data to the Ministry of Interior after everything that happened to this young man? I don't think so. There's one more question for me. Since you are proud of this case and are holding a press conference on how the Ministry of Interior prevented a terrorist attack, my question is: can the Ministry of Interior prevent a terrorist attack in which your parents did not give you information, that is, can you, if the parents of the terrorist do not come to the Ministry of Interior, can you capture him? Because in this case, you capture him from the parents' information and even brag at a press conference, but if the parents don't want to betray the terrorist, what do we do?! On the subject: how did the information leak? Today we are 28 June 2019 and you gave the press conference on 8 June 2019. Fighting terrorism is the topic to which you gave the press conference, this is the noise you made. Obsessed in the fight against terrorism for 20 days, you can't figure out where the information leaked to at least until now, that's what you told me. On the twentieth day you don't know yet. It is said that at least two journalists and at least two policemen know where the information was leaked, but the Ministry of Interior and the Minister of Interior do not know, or at least in the dialogue between Parliament and the executive authority the minister comes and says that when the inspection is over, he will tell you. How many days do you need to find out where the information is coming from, question one? The second question: If you need a month to find out where the information is coming from, how do you fight terrorism? The last question is, what do you really do?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u60	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u61	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Kutev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, I want to make it clear that this case isn't just the Ministry of Interior. I explicitly indicated my participation in the press conference and in what actions this participation was. I don't want to go with the suggestion that the personal data information leaked from the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, I do not report the final result of the inspection because it has not yet completed fully and objectively. As soon as the inspection is carried out and completed and reported to me, I will also inform you of the results of it, but at this stage I do not want the suggestion that the information has leaked from the Ministry of Interior. With regard to the press conference, it was given jointly with the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, employees of the SANS. I can tell you that in this case it is extremely discreet until there was no danger that these products, which, as you said, can be bought on the free market, but with certain skills and abilities, can be assembled in such a way as to cause a serious explosion. By the way, such products have been carried out with a number of terrorist acts. So the actions to prevent this were timely in order to prevent a terrorist act. With regard to the press conference it was given and the public was aware of the case regarding the interest of the public in this case, but without providing personal data to the perpetrator. The personal data of the perpetrator, which I did, came out quite later as a result of the focus created on both the locality and the participation of various network interlocutors, including family members. I mean, the family's actions are really right, and they're really watching the child and they've issued a timely signal for such deviations. And then I said that the issue of terrorism should not be exploited in any other direction except in the direction of preventing those cases from being prevented by those minors and minors who, for one reason or another, are influenced by such ideology, should be working discreetly so that they can return to society and the environment in which they lived. I want to tell you that the Ministry of Interior is extremely serious about this problem. Not everything we've done, and not all the cases we've been working on can become obvious to society, and that's the way it should be. But at the moment when we assess that we risk much more than working in secret than preventing a crime that may have consequences for a wide range of citizens, we are interfering. And so far, we're working on different signals. Unfortunately, what we prevent does not always become known to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is from the MP Mr. Georgi Yordanov. It is about the floods in the city of Plovdiv. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The question is formally from me, but the question is to you, asked by all Plovdiv citizens and concerned the distress situation in relation to the recent floods in the city of Plovdiv. Dear Minister, it is known that under the direction of the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in distress situations a crisis headquarters is being created, which deals directly with the management of the situation and assistance of the people in distress. My question to you is: In Plovdiv it is noticeable that in all more irrigation precipitation situations are created in the same places. I can list them for you, you're not a Plovdiv person and you probably don't know them. These are the Komatev Node, the newly built underpass on Gladstone Street to the post office, the underpass under the Iron Bridge and others. The specific question we want to ask you on behalf of the Plovdiv citizens is: should we always, in all precipitation, have problems in the same place? Does this crisis headquarters have any prescriptions to local authorities for certain events to make it safe for citizens to pass through these places? It is noticed that the latest media appearances of the crisis headquarters, the mayors who are to be present, are not present. I think here the connection between the crisis headquarters and the local authorities has broken, and in the end he instead of doing his job only makes a schedule of the city's fire brigades where to urgently go to take down certain territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u64	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u65	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yordanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Indeed, this year's rainy season has put citizens and institutions facing serious challenges. The weather situation has been quite sharpened and so far is one in some settlements - Plovdiv, Veliko Tarnovo, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Kotel and others. As you mentioned in the presentation of the issue, intense precipitation has been observed in the city of Plovdiv in recent years, and we should mention that the situation was particularly critical on 2 June this year. In view of the close interaction of all institutions involved in the territory of Plovdiv Municipality, a number of measures were taken, the most important of which are: in the first place, according to the legislation, the formation of a crisis headquarters in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv, led by the Director of the Regional Directorate Chief Commissioner Atanas Ilkov. Immediate action has been taken to investigate and locate critical points in the city of Plovdiv, taking measures to identify the causes and consequences of heavy rainfall. Police teams were sent to the designated crisis points in order to introduce a temporary movement organisation and to assist in cleaning the shafts and drainage facilities from the water-borne branches and other obstacles preventing the drainage of the street. Underpasses and flooded areas were secured by regional management teams and the road police sector. The signaling of the trouble spots was organized, as were the cars headed along bypass routes. Following all these measures from the formed headquarters until 05.00 p.m. on the third June 2019 movement along the road arteries of the city of Plovdiv was fully restored and no subsequent information was received for the distresses. In order to deal with this situation, forces from the fire and emergency safety from Kardzhali and Sofia were attracted to assist. About 400 people took direct part, 150 of which were employees of the Ministry of Interior, the rest were representatives of municipal structures, enterprises and many volunteers. Dozens of cars were left without registration plates, and the road police subsequently identified the owners of many of these cars and their signs were returned in due time, which greatly alleviated the citizens. In particular, the question you have asked me what is the role of the Commission in preventing floods and why preventive measures are not applied to prevent new disasters in the same places, I inform you that the Ministry of Interior has no direct bearing on the problem. In accordance with art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Disaster Protection, the mayor of the municipality organizes and directs the protection of disasters in the territory of the municipality; organizes, coordinates and conducts preventive measures to prevent and reduce the consequences of disasters; plans in the project of the municipal budget funds for disaster protection; coordinates and controls the development and implementation of the municipal disaster protection plan and the municipal disaster risk reduction programme developed by the municipal council to reduce the risk of disasters, chaired and represented by the mayor of the municipality and is adopted by the municipal council. In accordance with art. 9 of the Law on the Protection of Disasters with the municipal disaster protection plan, including floods, the measures to prevent and reduce the risk of flooding are laid down. In accordance with art. 6e of the same law are developed municipal programmes and plans to reduce the risk of disasters, which contain operational objectives, activities, budget, period for implementation, expected results, indicators of implementation, responsible institutions, and in the planning of urbanised territories under the Law on Construction of the territory are determined preventive measures and way of device and protection. The construction plans themselves are approved by the municipal council and according to a report of the mayor of the municipality. In conclusion, I take this case once again to express my gratitude for the high coordination between institutions for the work of all teams and volunteers, thanks to which the damage has been minimized and no human casualties have been achieved.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov, come in for an answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I join your gratitude to the teams who have dealt really and self-sacrifice with the disaster, the floods in the city of Plovdiv. But since June 2nd, when you quote, there has been a situation in Plovdiv twice more where we have had difficulties in movement in certain parts of the road network due to flooding of the road network. It's basically underpasses I was telling you about. In any case, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior reacted in a timely manner, okay and what is going on: a patrol car is coming, which is standing in front of floods, and is starting to pull the movement off. My question to you, however, is different. Is it always raining, more intense rain, we will limit ourselves, you will limit yourself, even more DMV service is under your jurisdiction, only with restraint at the time of the movement? And will permanent traffic restraint in certain parts that are pre-emptive, which periodically create opportunities to make traffic difficult and dangerous for the life of past situations remain the focus of other authorities that are not so competent because you are primarily responsible for crossing the roads? I would very much like the Regional Directorate of the RDVR to make its prescriptions to the local authorities, for which I undertake to announce and see if the mayors fail to deal with them, why do they not cope and what is the reason? Because this is how we spend people's money, people's money, and in the end we don't do prevention, which is the main thing for your Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to complete the answer, to take an attitude. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u69	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Yordanov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! I would like to point out that in this case, I have also put you in the answer, not always when there is heavy rain, for a short time the problem is the lack of prevention. Very often these precipitations are accompanied by a storm, with the breaking of branches, the falling of leafy mass, leading to a momentary obstruction of the drainage systems. Usually these problems occur at the lowest points of the settlement and not only in Plovdiv, but in all the settlements where the drainage system itself cannot take on such intense precipitation, and this problem occurs. It is there that speedy action is needed to limit traffic, prevent the entry of cars, which may prevent the future work of colleagues from fire and emergency safety, water companies and other responsible institutions to immediately clean the shaft, so that it can absorb this water. So in this case, I think that the problem comes from the fact that we cannot fully predict the occurrence of such events, but we can, with the establishment of a good organization, reduce the consequences of them, as it has been, and in this case, indeed the crisis headquarters is headed by the Regional Director of the Ministry of Interior, so it is by law. Naturally, in this case, I attended part of the meeting and the analysis after the movement was restored. The mayors of the districts in Plovdiv were present and there were discussed what measures to be taken in the future so as to reduce the risk of such follow-up actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for your participation in Parliament's work today. We move on to questions to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. The first one is from the MP Valentin Milushev on the European Cart Basketball Championship. Here you are, Mr. Milushev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! It has become known from media publications that from July 29th to August 4th in Sofia will be held European Car Basketball Championship in Division S. This will be a debut participation of the Bulgarian national team at a similar forum. The teams of Serbia, Greece, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland and Portugal will arrive in Sofia. The holding of this championship in our country is extremely important for the development of sport for people with disabilities. My question to you, Minister, is: is the Ministry of Youth and Sports supporting the European Cart Basketball Championship and how does the state support the development of this sport as part of the policy for the development of sport for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Milushev. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milushev, the development of sport for people with disabilities is one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In fulfilling this priority, in my first term as Minister of Youth and Sports in 2016, a new Sports Development Programme for Disabled People has been established. It marks the beginning of a reform in supporting sport for people with disabilities. The leading idea is that public funds for this sport should be intended not only for winning medals, but to ensure access to sports facilities, conditions for sports of as many disabled people as possible. In its present form, the program provides better conditions and more opportunities, except for specialized sports organizations: Bulgarian Paralympic Association, Sports Federation of Deaf in Bulgaria and the Federation of Sports for People with Disabilities, it is also open to all other federations developing sports for people with disabilities. Wheelchair Basketball is a sport that best illustrates how the Ministry of Youth and Sports Programme helps to develop sports for disabled people. The Ministry of Youth and Sport supports the development of cart basketball in Bulgaria with the introduction of the new Programme in 2016. Since then, the Bulgarian Basketball Federation under the Programme has provided a total of 346 thousand. lv. mainly for sporting activities, organizing state championships, preparing and participating the national team in international competitions, and not least for the purchase of a total of 28 sports wheelchairs for basketball. In 2016, there were three existing basketball clubs in the country for wheelchair people, and five clubs are currently developing. The system training is conducted by 57 people with different motor disabilities, part of which in the two newly established basketball clubs for people with disabilities. Six qualified sports professionals are provided to work with the members of the clubs and for the national team a trainer, physiotherapist and other officials. The Bulgarian Basketball Federation organizes between three and five tournaments in Sofia, Varna and Burgas every year. In 2016 the first state championship in wheelchair basketball was held in Bulgaria. As a result of the development of this sport in Bulgaria, in the last three years the Bulgarian Basketball Federation has submitted a bid to host the European Car Basketball Championship in Division C and has officially received the household on 29 January 2019. The championship will be held in the Sofia Hall from 29 July to 4 August, and on 10 April the lot for it was officially drawn in the presence of the Secretary General of the European Car Basketball Federation Peter Ducek, the sports director of the headquarters Dirk Koser and the President of the Bulgarian Basketball Federation Georgi Glushkov. The funds provided by the Ministry of Youth and Sport for participation in the championship of Bulgarian athletes with disabilities amount to BGN 33 500. These funds provide the equipment of the Bulgarian team, the preparation of athletes and coaches, as well as a boarding school for the entire team of 15 people during the championship with included doctor, physiotherapist and assistant carts. In 2019 for the development of cart basketball the Bulgarian Basketball Federation received funding from the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the amount of 120 thousand. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will there be a line and attitude? Mr. Milushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response and to congratulate you on having a real attitude towards people with disabilities, so that through sport they can feel fruitful citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Milushev. Mr. Secretary, will he have the back? I won't. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev. His question is about the regime of licensing sports federations. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I hope, first of all, that everything is well with your health. I want to ask you the question of sports federations, as we all know that a new Law on Physical Education and Sports is in force. In this case, I am interested: how many sports federations have so far fulfilled the requirements of the new Law which entered into force on 18 January 2019, which was referred to, and how many federations has an unlimited sports license been issued; are there any deficiencies found in the Law regarding the licensing regime of sports federations? I think these are the main questions we need to get answers to. I reserve the right to supplement them afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the first part of the questions, as promised by Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, as you pointed out in your question, § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, in force from 18 January 2019, gives a one-year period for Bulgarian federations to be brought into line with the requirements of the new law and to receive an unlimited sports license. The procedures for issuing, refusing, withdrawing and suspending a sports licence of sports federations shall be conducted subject to the requirements of Section III of Chapter Three of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. The new law also introduced new requirements for sports federations and sports clubs, the aim of which is to make their work more effective, to eliminate so-called hollow clubs in sport, to ensure that there are contracts of federations with coaching staff, to ensure that sports organisations have sporting facilities in the territory of the country where they can conduct training activities, etc. Clubs can only belong to one sports federation or respectively to a multi-sport federation. The members of the management body of the club shall not be related to each other or be associated with members of other sports clubs of the same federation. Under the new law, the sport license under stricter control is now running out of time. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports states that the procedures for issuing, refusing, withdrawing and terminating a sports licence are laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The implementing rules have been adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 77 of 9 April 2019 and are in force from 12 April 2019. According to art. 3 of the Staff Regulations Minister for Youth and Sports by order appoints a licensing and registration committee as a permanent supporting body. From April 12th until now documents under art. 21 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports in the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the issue of an unlimited licence have submitted 17 sports federations licensed under the repealed law. Currently an unlimited sports license has been issued to seven federations: Association of the Automobile Federation of Bulgaria, Association of the Bulgarian Federation of Air Modelism, Association of the Bulgarian Federation of Sailways, Association of the Bulgarian Federation of Sumo and Association of the Bulgarian Federation of Air Modelism................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The documents of the other federations are being reviewed by the committee at the moment. In the course of the work under the new Law on Physical Education and Sports, as I noted, new requirements were introduced regarding the licensing regime of federations, identifying specific cases of the way sports rights imposed by the practice of the work of international sports organisations. There are systems of international sports organisations where the sports rights of national organisations are granted and delegated without being bound by direct membership of international organisations. These are the cases of sports falling within the scope of FIA's activities, the International Car Federation; the provision of sports rights, which are administered by the International Gymnastics Federation, Sports gymnastics, rhythmic gymnastics, aerobics, trampoline jumps, acrobatics; the provision of sports rights to sports administered by the International Air Sports Federation, parachutism and aerial modelism; the delegation of sports rights administered by the International Military Sports Council and others. I would like to point out that these specific cases have not been dealt with in the old Law on Physical Education and Sports. One of the reasons introduced by the Law on Physical Education and Sports for the withdrawal of a sports license is the withdrawal or termination of the membership of a sports federation in the relevant international organisation, which results in the inability of the sports federation to exercise the rights under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law, namely: to represent the country of international sports competitions; to organize and hold international championships and, respectively, the inability to determine the composition of national teams. During this year we had a case which showed that the general statement of acceptance or membership was not detailing the specific cases of sports rights they provide to international organizations, although the Bulgarian sports federation was unable to fully perform its functions behind their withdrawal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a cue and attitude to the thorough answer. We delayed the time, but the question was such that it required specific data and we could not help but hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u81	That's right, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer. You know that also in the working group, which was regarding the drafting of this law, we have debated these issues, including the licensing regime. The aim is to reduce the participation of so-called hollow clubs or their creation. So we are aware of that. Rather, here I have an addition to my original question: what are the incompletes and whether there are any found with regard to the regime of this licensing, has the Ministry established such incompletes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Minister, we have seen that in the basic answer you were comprehensive. Would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u83	Dear Mr. Chenchev, I think my exhibition contained the answer to your question. As I said, during the course of the work and under the conditions of the new Law on Physical Education and Sports, we found specific cases of the way of exercising the sports rights that I mentioned them earlier, and, as I said, they were not considered either in the old law or in the previous law. So this is our finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is also from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev and he is already for a specific case for the national sports license of the Bulgarian Road Transport Federation. Is it a sport? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u85	Yeah, there's been a mistake. Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, with the clear awareness that from the moment we entered, the introduction of this issue has been about a month, perhaps a little more time and during that time, during that time some things have happened, we have a judgment of the court, but I still want to introduce the Chamber to the specific case. I'm going to ask you, Mr. Chairman, for a little more time, because this case is important. However, the case in question, which we are talking about, brought the Bulgarian motorists who protested on the street and repeatedly. On 28 May they protested before the Council of Ministers against the withdrawal of the license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation by the Union of Bulgarian Motorists. Following the withdrawal of this license event is the creation of the Auto Federation in Bulgaria, which is recognized by the Ministry of Sports and already has the rights to organize competitions in Bulgaria. The Association of Automobile Federation of Bulgaria is awarded a sports license as a Federation of Road Sports with a decision of the Ministry of Youth and Sports on 19 April 2019. On 16 January 2019 the Union of Bulgarian Automobileists as a member of the International Automobile Federation (FIA), withdrew the rights granted to the Bulgarian Automobile Sport Federation to organize and hold national and international championships, to determine the composition of national teams and so on. According to the International Sports Code of FIA, which is the International Federation, Bulgarian competitors are not allowed to participate in international competitions on behalf of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation. After the visit of the representative of FIA Werner Krauss it became clear that only the SBA, as a member of the organization, could delegate rights to other automotive organizations in the country. According to car racers, it is a paradox for an unsporting organisation to choose to whom to delegate sports rights. At the beginning of its existence the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation is only a section of the Union of Bulgarian Motorists, but in 1992 it was registered as a separate federation. However, the Union of Bulgarian motorists has not organized competitions and has not carried out sports activities in the last 20 years, and this has been done by the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation without an officially granted or delegated license for the ownership of rights, but licensed by the Ministry. Under the new Law on Physical Education and Sports, the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation does not correspond to a single point of it to be internationally represented. At the same time, it cannot be internationally recognised after a license has been revoked in Bulgaria. The paradox is that the right to take away the license of the Sports Federation has received the organization in private benefit................ the Union of Bulgarian motorists and not the Ministry of Sports, but all this is done with the consent of the Ministry. The Union of Bulgarian motorists holds an international license for various activities in which the sport from the times falls when the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation is the same organisation or at least they are connected through the same Chairman. For more than 20 years, the Union has not performed sporting events and the license is still in its possession. This license, however, means sovereignty for the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation. The rapid action on the withdrawal of the Federation of Car Sports license is an attempt the Union of Bulgarian motorists to register a new association, to give it international rights and thus to change the management of the car sport in Bulgaria, contrary to the Law. In this sense, I understand the anger of car racers who filed a complaint about the case at the Supreme Administrative Court. The Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation is in the process of applying to the International Federation of FIA, to acquire international rights for organizing competitions as soon as the Ministry withdraws its license, which should be a violation of the law by the Ministry. The car federation of Bulgaria is not a member of the International Federation as there is no application for membership under art. 21, para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Another violation of this case has been committed. The grace period has not been respected in which sports federations and organizations have been able to adapt to the new law on sport. Before this period expires, the license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation is revoked, licensed sports federations bring their activities in accordance with the requirements of the Law within one year from its entry into force under § 6 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. In this sense, it is the question: why does Decision No RD-10-1 of 18 April 2019, the Minister of Sport, in an unsaved grace period and untrained circumstances around the application for membership, take away the national sports license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation and the next day provide it to a newly created organisation that does not meet the requirements of the Law on Physical Education and Sports? On 19 April 2019 MPs from GERB's parliamentary group submitted a proposal for a supplement and amendment of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and it is likely in order to legitimise the Act of the Ministry on the revocation of the license from the previous day. This proposal aims to legitimise the possession of sports licenses by organisations outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Physical Education and Sports, and in this case, even for private benefit, and their delegation to sports federations. Does this delegation make public organisations and the Ministry dependent on outside structures for sport? Is state and public interest protected? I have more, but thank you for understanding. I apologize for the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev, and so is the complex and voluminous question. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, I thank you for the detailed question and detailed facts on it. Please excuse me, because part of my answer will probably repeat those facts that have been submitted, but I think it's okay. This confirms that we will both adhere strictly to the facts. With just one clarification at the beginning. Of course, I am familiar with the two carists' protests, and I would like to make it clear that these are not all motorists, but part of them. Unfortunately, this case has made sure that the car movement in Bulgaria is not yet aware of the full situation. I thank you for this question, because I hope that these things will be clarified after today's debate. I will try to present to the fullest extent the facts about the withdrawal of the sports license of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation at the scheduled time. The Association of the Bulgarian Industrial Sports Federation held a sports licence under art. 17, para. 1 of the already repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports, the validity of which is reserved under the terms of § 6 of the previous and final provisions of the new Law on Physical Education and Sport in force from 18 January 2019. On 17 January 2019 the Ministry of Youth and Sports received a notification from the Union of Bulgarian motorists that it withdraws the right granted by them to the Association of the Bulgarian Road Sports Federation to conduct activities related to road sports. To clarify the situation was a correspondence between me and the President of the International Automobile Federation Jean Todd. There was also a meeting with the representative of FIA Mr. Werner Krauss, who visited Bulgaria. It is established that according to art. 14.1 of the FIA International Sports Code The International Organisation recognises only one national organisation that owns the so-called sports power, sports rights and which controls road sports in the country concerned. For the Republic of Bulgaria, this organization is the Union of Bulgarian motorists, which the Ministry of Youth and Sport was explicitly notified by a letter from the President of FIA. The consequences of the SBA's withdrawal of the sports rights of the Association are that the Association of Bulgarian Industrial Sports Association no longer has the rights under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, namely: to represent the country of international sports competitions; to organize and hold international championships within the meaning of art. 27, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and the resulting inability to determine the composition of national teams. From the moment the SBA withdrew the rights of the Bulgarian Road Sports Federation under art. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 1, t. 7 of the International Sports Code of FIA, Bulgarian contestants are not allowed to participate in an international competition on behalf of the Association. As a result, with the Order of 18 April 2019 of the Minister of Youth and Sports, the sports license of the Association of the Bulgarian Federation of Arts and Sports is revoked. The Association of the Bulgarian Industrial Sports Federation has asked the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the preliminary execution of the order. As of 26 June 2019, i.e. a few days ago, the Supreme Administrative Court rejected the request of the Association to suspend the preliminary execution of the order. By order of 19 April 2019 the Minister of Youth and Sports has been granted a sports license under art. 18, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports of the Association of Automobile Federation of Bulgaria. On the basis of an application to which the necessary documents are presented, certifying the compliance of the applicant with the requirements of art. 20 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports. A letter from the President of the Union of Bulgarian Motorists was also provided to the IMC, which informed us of the decision of the Management Board of the ABA on the rights to conduct activities related to road sport in Bulgaria and the participation in international competitions to be delegated to the Association of Automobile Federation of Bulgaria and to the existence of a joint agreement between the Motor Federation of Bulgaria and the SBA, as well as a notification to FIA on the delegation of the rights of the Association of Automobile Federation of Bulgaria. The Association of the Bulgarian Auto Sports Federation has asked the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the preliminary implementation of the order for granting a license to the Automobile Federation of Bulgaria. I've already informed you that the ruling in the case is that the Society's claim has been dismissed. The latest information that the Ministry of Youth and Sports has on the case is also from this month - June 21st, and FIA has informed the SBA that it has re-examined the case with sports rights for Bulgaria again. Confirms that the organisation that holds these rights is precisely the Union of Bulgarian motorists. Such a copy of the letter was provided to us, of course. Driven by the interest to return the opportunity of Bulgarian competitors to participate in a number of championships, as well as in the territory of Bulgaria to hold international competitions, the Ministry of Youth and Sports approaches responsibly and as quickly as possible. The issue of a sports license of a federation to administer road sports in the country and in international participations has ensured the smooth conduct from 10 to 12 May 2019 of the 50th anniversary rally in Bulgaria, included in the International calendar of FIA. In the absence of a Federation with valid sports license and granted sports rights by FIA, there would be no possibility of holding a rally. The car federation of Bulgaria assured us that it will accept all car clubs that are regular, comply with its statutes and the Law on Physical Education and Sports, and thus all Bulgarian competitors will be able to participate in the Jubilee Rally, as well as happen. The Bulgarian Auto Federation rally was one of the best competitions in the years, which the President of FIA Jean Todd testified to. 33 crews participated in the rally this year and more than 15 thousand viewers attended its final stage in Varna. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the allegations that members of the Federation's governing bodies have been revoked licensed in the various media, which are also contained in your question, are aimed at transferring the long-standing problem between them and the organisation recognised by FIA, the SBA, to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The aim and obligation of the Ministry of Youth and Sports has always been to enable Bulgarian competitors to participate in competitions and develop their sport, not to take sides in disputes between independent legal entities. In our actions in the case, we have been guided by the rules described in the Law on Physical Education and Sports on the basis of information and data obtained from the relevant competent institutions, notification from the ABA, correspondence with the President of the International Automobile Federation Jean Todd and meeting with a representative of FIA. According to the information available to the Ministry, I think you confirmed in your exhibition that the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation is part of the structure of the SBA from 1973 to 1992 when it became an independent legal entity. From 1992 to January 2019 the SBA has granted the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation the rights to carry out activities related to road sports. That is, for 26 years the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation has performed this activity, but has not become a member of FIA, so I see no reason at the moment to blame the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In the case of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation, it is also not about re-licensing the Federation against the new Law on Physical Education and Sports in order to enjoy a grace period of one year, but about withdrawing the licence because the right to develop international activity has been revoked. All procedures under the Rules of Implementation of the Law on Physical Education and Sports have been complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, now I promise to be shorter. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is a case and we are aware that there was a case and what the court said on it. By the way, it must be clear that this case is about a request for suspension of this order, and in November, if memory serves, the case will be dealt with, which is essentially about violations in terms of the revocation of the licence. Here the question is: why is a licence given to another structure that is in private benefit? This is done at a time when the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation applied for international competitions and international rights to be granted, and this decision to withdraw the license is being obtained at this time. It is very nice that we have had a jubilee successful rally "Bulgaria" and, of course, I can only admire my colleagues too, this thing because the rally "Bulgaria" is a traditional competition, which is one of the emblems of our country in this sport. This is a question which, in so many years of activity, in so many years of covering, carrying out and organizing a sports calendar by the Bulgarian Road Sports Federation, in this way after the entry into force of this law during the application to withdraw the license, it actually brought people to the street. They may be part of the motorists, not all of them, may not be all of them, I didn't count them for sure, but in any case there is a case which, as they say, came a little surprisingly to them, as they have done this work for many years, and successfully. And just as this structure, which has received the right to organize competitions at the moment, says that there is a congratulations letter from Jean Todd, President of the International Car Federation, and the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation certainly for these almost 30 years there are relevant commendations and diplomas for the successful organization of dozens and hundreds of competitions. So there is a case. Surely in November, it will be interesting what the court will decide. But here with you, I think our interest, and it is common, should be in the direction and in favor of the Bulgarian sport and the people who organized it and want to organize it. Thank you for listening. I hope there will be a solution to this issue, and I hope there will be a purer and most conscientious solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, you can take the attitude both to the line and to the supplement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u91	Yeah, I'll be very brief. Thank you, Mr. Chenchev, for the clarification and for the question, because this case is really important and we need the automotive circles in Bulgaria to be aware of how things are going and what the procedures are. As I also said in the answer to my question, the only reasons for our actions we have been led only by the thought of protecting the interest of Bulgarian competitors. I will not comment on how the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation has carried out its duties. Like any sports institution, they have had peaks and declines, they have had strong years, they have had a period of management crises, which is what it is now, because we know that for several years there have been cases of regularity of a General Assembly held and the power in the Federation is being challenged, but however, there is no cassation to our thesis. There are some novelties, of course, as you said. One of them is from the moment your question was asked. The most interesting thing is that the International Automobile Federation confirmed by a new letter it has already re-examined the situation in Bulgaria and confirmed by its letter that the sports rights granted to a Bulgarian body or organization for organizing competitions in Bulgaria have been granted to the SBA, as has always been so far. So I really don't see what the Ministry could have done to prevent this application of the Bulgarian Auto Sport Federation, even more 26 years this has not happened. At the moment, the only thing we wanted was not to ruin the season of car racers. We have examined the documents of the new Federation very carefully, we have not found any gaps. Of course, there is a case to be dealt with. We have provided all the necessary documents and we hope that the Supreme Administrative Court will really make the right decision on the case so that the Bulgarian car world can unite again and work more seriously to restore the old positions Bulgaria had in the international road world. Thank you very much for the question and for the exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question about today's parliamentary control of you, put by the National Representative Alexander Matsurev, is about the idea of professional trainers teaching in the third period of physical education in schools. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev, to develop the question and introduce us to the idea of this hour.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! My question to you is about an idea of your professional trainers to teach in the third period of physical education in schools. Even during your previous term you were the main initiator of the idea of professional trainers to teach during the third period of physical education in schools. This was also laid down in the Law on School and Preschool Education. I support this undertaking of yours because it will contribute to the construction of quality physical culture and education in children and hours will acquire even more serious content. I believe that this is the way for the revival of Bulgarian sport and for achieving even better results. I believe that in this way it will be much easier to detect and develop sports technical skills in the various types of sports of children who possess specific talents and qualities. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions: What difficulties and obstacles meet the Ministry represented by you? In this regard, what mass practice can be introduced in Bulgarian schools and of what nature? Could you give good examples? What are the expected benefits and results in schools where there are appointed such professional trainers? What steps does the Ministry of Youth and Sport take to implement this practice in more schools in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u94	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Matsurev, the opportunity in the so-called third hour of physical education in the schools to enter specialists with professional qualification by type of sport created conditions for building a partnership between schools and sports clubs. This provision of the Preschool and School Education Act does not have a compulsory character and mainly depends on the will of school guides and the activity of sports clubs and coaches. The difficulties in its implementation are related to insecurity on the part of school guides, as well as insufficient sports base in part of schools. At present, school directors have not yet shown the expected initiative to establish contacts with sports organisations. On the other hand, municipalities and regional managements of education play a significant role in this process. In the settlements where municipalities, regional managements of education and school directors have chosen sport as an instrument in combating addiction and aggression, this opportunity is applied in practice and we are about to see the real results of it. As a good example in this regard, I could point to the municipality of Varna, where next school year will be applied for the second time the Training Lesson. The coaches are 12 types of sport - basketball, athletics, table tennis, football, chess, handball, rugby, volleyball, karate, aikido, orientation and fashion dances. The classes are held free of charge by the sports coach. The State Teacher of Physical Education and Sports also took part in the lesson by keeping the choir room and supporting the work of the coach. The activity is necessarily agreed with the head of RVO and the expert in physical education and sport at RVO, with the principals of the schools who are willing to state the types of sport in the municipality, then schedules are drawn up. This is definitely a good example of how this legal opportunity could be realized. In the beginning of June in Varna is organized a round table which has gathered representatives of municipalities, experts of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, regional managements of education from all over the country to discuss possible approaches for establishing effective links between schools and sports clubs and for attracting coaches to conduct sports activities in schools. I hope this initiative will begin to be implemented in more and more municipalities. The expected results of entering a professional coach in the third gym class, besides discovering more talent in sports and creating a greater reserve for the development of sport for excellence, is also to strengthen the interest of students themselves in systematic activities with sport. As is well known, sport is not only health, but also the most effective prevention against various forms of addiction and aggression among children and adolescents. We expect in schools where they teach professional coaches to increase the number of participants in competitions and events included in sports calendars, as well as in competitions from school games. The next stage in this direction is the establishment of school sports teams. A well-known practice in the past, which unfortunately exists in few schools in the country at the moment. In connection with the new provisions laid down in the Law on Physical Education and Sports, in force from 18 January 2019, the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Ministry of Education and Science have developed a draft regulation on the terms and conditions for organizing and carrying out training competition activities of children and students outside of the curriculum, which is to be approved by the Minister of Youth and Sports and the Minister of Education and Science. This regulation regulates the establishment of school sports teams. The school sports team, apart from a teacher of physical education and sport, is provided the opportunity to be organized by a coach by sport type. School directors have the opportunity to conclude contracts with coaches from sports clubs to conduct training activities and to form teams to participate in student sports competitions and events. This is a new step towards creating conditions for motivating students to participate in sports and sports activities. For five years the Ministry of Youth and Sport has been taking part in an initiative of the European Commission which aims to promote sport and physical activity for all the European Sports Week. Last year, the initiative in Bulgaria focused on schools in different municipalities in the country, where for three weeks we organized open sports lessons with a professional trainer according to the choice of the specific school. We visited 12 municipalities: Dupnitsa, Avren, Aksakovo, Velingrad, Panagyurishte, Pomorie, Sozopol, Byala, Nova Zagora, Kazanlak, Dimitrovgrad and Novi Pazar. I dare say that the interest was great, and I hope that some of these schools have continued to work in this direction. During the same initiative last year, we conducted a sociological survey among students from I through XII, parents and teachers in physical education, which showed good results in terms of attitudes towards sports. Bulgarian children and their parents believe that sports are useful and would like to play sports. Teachers of physical education clearly complain about neglecting their subject, but they believe that they are going in a positive direction. To conclude, I would like to thank you for the question and for paying attention to this important topic of sports at school. Physical education is an important part of the training of our children. It brings many benefits in terms of their health, their upbringing, their socialization, plays an important role in preventing aggression and addiction. In order to achieve results, we must work together and make efforts, both state and municipalities, school directors, sports organisations, society in general. This is really the way to have a healthy nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Matsurev, would you care to respond? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I want to thank you for your comprehensive answer. Indeed, this is a wonderful practice that happened in Varna. I hope, as you said, in more municipalities this will be like an increased interest and start almost everywhere. My appeal is, however, to all municipalities and directors, the sooner this initiative is launched and this idea, I think the faster it will result both among the children and among all those who want to play sports as young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. Matsurev. Mr. Minister, we really thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We wish you success and health! Dear Members of Parliament, we have thus exhausted the issues of today's parliamentary control and have completed the weekly Parliamentary Work Programme. The next plenary session will be on 3 July 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
