ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, according to art. 47 of our rules I suggest we listen to the anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union. Please stand up straight! [[Everyone's up. The anthems of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the European Union sound.]] Thank you! [[Applause.]] Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members, honored guests! Today we open the eighth session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. It cannot fail to pass under the sign of the upcoming local elections, which will take place during our autumn session. In an election environment passions are heated, and the parliamentary tribune is often used by political parties to deliver their election messages. I hope, however, that despite the opposition, the sharp disputes and the different positions, we will keep the good tone, treat each other with respect, because we are opponents, but also colleagues and all together represent the Bulgarian people. Let us show that Parliament is a responsible institution and MPs do their job, as Bulgarian citizens do. Dear colleagues, in two days we will celebrate 134 years from the Association of the Principality of Bulgaria with Eastern Rumelia one of the brightest and most significant dates in our history. It is a case won and protected by the entire Bulgarian people, which showed unity in the name of the national ideal of the Bulgarians in one country. Today, there are often voices in the public domain that we do not have clear national priorities and state development is stalling. My belief and that of our international partners is that Bulgaria is one of the most prosperous European countries with economic growth, growing incomes and security for citizens. We have a long way to go to achieving our common goals and we need unity between all political forces, institutions and citizens to have a rich and developed Bulgaria tomorrow in a stable and secure Europe. I wish everyone health and successful parliamentary activity! Thank you. [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 4 September 2019, first Wednesday of the month. Under art. 53, para. 8 parliamentary groups have the right to make proposals. There is a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs: "1." First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers are Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs, 13 December 2018 There are no other proposals. Under the Programme: "2." Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Resignation of the National Representative Ivan Genov on 3 September 2019 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measurements. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 14 June 2019. Adopted in first vote on 17 July 2019. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 15 July 2019. 5. Annual Youth Report 2018 Importer is the Council of Ministers, 28 June 2019. 6. A new discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act. Adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019. Returned for a new discussion with Decree No 159 of 5 August 2019 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 7. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importers are Alexander Sabanov, Yordan Apostolov and Georgi Kolev, 6 February 2019; and Alexander Sabanov, 6 August 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 5 September 2019 8. Parliamentary control point 3 for Thursday, 5 September 2019 Dear colleagues, today the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rumen Radev will address the people and the National Assembly according to art. 98 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. That'll happen at 9:10. Please vote on the presented Programme Project. Vote 206 MPs: 181, Against 1, abstention 24. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, in view of the forthcoming address of the President of the Republic Mr. Rumen Radev to the people and the National Assembly, as well as the traditional speeches on behalf of the parliamentary groups on their intentions and priorities during the new session, I am making the following procedural proposal: the address of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rumen Radev to the people and the National Assembly and the speeches on behalf of the parliamentary groups on their intentions and priorities during the upcoming session to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. Please vote. Vote 207 MPs: for 206, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I give the floor to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rumen Radev to address the people and the MPs. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u2	Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Vice President, honourable Members, dear compatriots! I use my constitutional authority to address the people and the National Assembly at the beginning of this session. The beginning of each parliamentary session is loaded with hope and increased expectations, as I hope, and you are charged with energy for responsible decisions and actions after a complete rest. I also hope that the midnight vigil in front of the screens of those of you who have watched Grigor Dimitrov's incredible victory will affect the performance today only in a positive direction. As the President of the National Assembly mentioned, there is a difficult and busy session. The adoption of a number of laws, the most important of which is the state budget, and local elections. At the same time, we should not miss the fact that there are accumulated problems in the country, whose solution is not only urgent, but requires us to stare at a more distant horizon. I won't go into details about the situation in the country. My position is known, but along with the discussion of a number of economic and any statistical indicators we should not miss, and the fact that Bulgaria continues to lose its most valuable wealth, people, that a large part of Bulgarian citizens are alienating themselves from their own country, that they are missing the main factors for effective governance. It is widely known that when power is gradually taken away from the people and concentrated in a narrow circle of people, they transform it into economic benefits and media comfort and invest them in even more power. Thus this narrow circle concretes its uncontrolled power and the wicked cycle closes. With such a formula there is no development, there is no security and prosperity, and there is poverty, corruption and illiteracy, so a change is needed to strengthen civil participation and control over governance, to make the institutions more transparent and accountable, to deploy the initiative of Bulgarian citizens and their more fully involved in public life. We need a strong state with clear rules and order that work for the people and are respected by everyone. Such a change cannot be the work of a separate person, a group of people or a political party, and here I see the leading role of the Bulgarian Parliament as a central state body expressing the will of the people as the highest platform for debates and decisions, as a body called to control the executive power, because whatever economic and social rescue models are being implemented, they will not achieve their goal, as we have convinced ourselves more than once, until the political environment has changed and, above all, the way of exercising power in Bulgaria. That is why I see the leading role of the Bulgarian Parliament and my expectations are for an accelerated debate on important issues in this direction. First of all, there can be no effective government of the state, and hence prosperity, if there is no full parliamentary control over the executive power. The Bulgarian government is one of the few in the European Union that does not follow a management programme that has received Parliament's approval after a public debate. It would be a rational decision if, together with the composition of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister proposed for approval in the National Assembly and its management program. Deviations from this programme should also be debated in parliament, and the government should present an annual report on its activities to the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines.]] Obviously, we also need a provision that obliges the Prime Minister to appear at least once a month in the parliamentary room to answer general questions on government policy. [[Heckling]] The rejection of blitzcontrol, in my opinion, was a retreat from democratic principles and its recovery would be a step towards the good practices of parliamentaryism, its best models. I am fully convinced and believe that the Bulgarian Parliament should cross, and this year, the vicious practice of uncontrolled spending, of artificially created surplus without justification and without sanctions of Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] Such an approach is contrary to good practices and generates conditions for corruption. I hope you agree with me here. Of course, every government must have the operational freedom to dispose of the budget, but it must be within clearly regulated frameworks, and it is parliament that defines these frameworks. Also, the President has no authority to interfere with the technology of the legal process, but, as you invite me, I am here, I will share my concern and worrying tendencies. More and more laws are being changed by transitional and final provisions, avoiding public discussion and impact assessment. In this way, this brings unpredictability to the legislative process and eliminates civil participation. Expectations for the Bulgarian Parliament are for more transparency and predictability and this will be in favor of both citizens and businesses, and above all will increase confidence in the most important institution in the country. I think the moment for greater independence, initiative and responsibility of local authorities through real financial decentralisation has long been ripe. A step in this direction will also increase the necessary civic activity by regions. At present, municipalities depend on the favor of the government, which is very often realized by unknown, and in most cases the narrow party criteria of any government. I also think that the improvement of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government should be in the focus of the National Assembly. At the moment, the Law in this form does not allow the effective implementation of the instruments of direct democracy, and it should therefore be considered extending opportunities and facilitating conditions for civil participation. The persistently diverted subject of the introduction of an individual constitutional complaint over the years should, in my opinion, be carefully considered, because in a balanced approach it can become an important tool for civil control over legislative and management decisions. Moreover, this practice has been adopted in most European countries and is supported by the Venice Commission. This session is also loaded with the hope of bringing sustainability to the electoral process. The machine voting, as guarantor of the integrity of elections, should be ensured, and reliablely, in regulatory, technical and expert terms. In my opinion, not only must the introduction of electronic remote voting be accelerated, but under clear guarantees of its integrity and in clear conditions for the protection of national security. We must go further on to consider constitutional and legal changes that will enable Bulgarians from birth who have acquired dual citizenship in countries of the European Union, and why not in developed democracies, such as the United States, Canada, Switzerland and so on, to be able to run for MPs, President and Vice President, as in the majority of developed countries, because more and more of our compatriots are abroad and it is of utmost importance not only not to break the spiritual connection with the country, something for which Mrs. Yotova and you and the Bulgarian government work hard, but must be involved with our social-political life. Many of these people have high education and prestigious professions, and if they are given the legal opportunity to participate in Bulgarian politics, their accumulated knowledge and experience in countries with much more developed social, economic and political systems will be of our benefit, and they will also receive an additional incentive to return to the country. This will also help our socio-economic models to get closer to those of the Member States and integrate more fully into the European Union. These people cannot import more money in Bulgaria than foreign direct investments, but can not participate in Bulgarian politics. It's not fair! Unbridled high-level corruption and rampant crime, especially in small settlements, require the legislative and control functions of the National Assembly to focus on strengthening the rule of law, ensuring the physical security of Bulgarian citizens, the integrity of their property and the expectation of all retribution for the criminal law. There are also many measures that need to be taken to tackle poverty and the demographic crisis to increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. In defining the priority among them, we can rely on the experience of countries that were in critical condition and today are leading economies because they have identified education as an absolute national priority. And I am convinced that education not only needs to be a priority in state policy, as it is announced today, but to be supported by much more decisive legal and financial measures if we want to prosper as a nation in an extremely competitive environment. All of this, of course, cannot happen if we do not create conditions for accelerated economic growth far above the one at hand, so that we can begin to catch up with the countries that are torn away far ahead from the Eastern European countries. I believe that this is a belief that is shared by all who work for the sustainable development of Bulgaria, but we must overcome the dramatic collapse in foreign direct investment and this will not happen with targeted hunting of one or two strategic investors [[speaking indistinctly]] , and with a fair, stable and predictable regulatory environment, eased administrative burden, uncompromising fight against corruption and engaging the state with quality of education, health, infrastructure and electronic services. This requires, of course, a well-coordinated foreign policy between institutions with specific, long-term objectives subject to national interest. Here I would like to thank the chairmen of committees and members of friendship groups in the Bulgarian National Assembly who took part in my business meetings with foreign Heads of State or Government. Dear Members of Parliament, I hope that what I have said will not only cause emotions, but also lead to reflection, debate and responsible state decisions. Bulgaria must become a normal European state with the rule of law, with an active civil society, with transparent, reporting and responsible institutions to work effectively, and in the interests of citizens. Without these fundamental prerequisites, we will have no security, no European income and quality of infrastructure and public services. It is my personal belief that the path to achieving such a goal goes through the proposals I have made. Their interpretation, however, is entirely within the constitutional powers of the Bulgarian Parliament. The time for change is running out relentlessly as young and hardworking Bulgarians run out of time, just as the Bulgarian villages and the Bulgarian pensioners left at random, so my call is now, in this parliamentary session, among other things, to concentrate efforts for important decisions for the future of the country. If this does not happen, or apathy will continue to empty Bulgaria, or the street will sweep away the status quo. [[Noise and lines.]] The Bulgarians expect your responsible actions! Anyone who works not for personal, corporate or close party interests but for the well-being of the Bulgarian people will have an ally in my face. Good luck to you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. President. Colleagues, we continue with the speeches on behalf of the parliamentary groups on their intentions and priorities during the new session. The speaker of GERB's parliamentary group Mrs Daritkova has the floor. Here you are, dear Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't know if it's right to address the president who just left us, but my first words, of course, will be addressed to him. It was significant to us that in the eighth session of the Forty-fourth National Assembly we were honored by the presence of the presidential institution. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We believe that this could have been a good sign of dialogue between the institutions in Bulgaria and of a start of validating their authority. [[President Rumen Radev takes his place on the balcony next to Vice President Iliana Yotova.]] In this room, we swear to uphold the laws and constitution of the country. The Constitution says that each MP represents not only its constituents, but represents all Bulgarian citizens. In this same Constitution in art. 92 is written that the President is the embodiment of the unity of the nation. Unfortunately, we have again seen today the outline of dividing lines between those who have raised the President and speeches for the benefit of certain political forces. We are ready for dialogue and we have always said so. However, this dialogue must start with a fair and fair attitude and the elimination of the deficits of transparency, which the President notes not only in the government, in the parliament, but also in the presidential institution itself, because, unfortunately, there are many examples of opaque performance of the functions of the presidency. We have always believed that the Presidency should get acquainted with the Coalition Governance Program of this government, which is public and which we strictly follow and implement. I regret that we have found that there is no such knowledge today, but I trust that we will properly inform the Presidency of which of our priorities have already been realised and which are to be fulfilled in the next two years. I do accept much of the problems in the President's speech, which have been set as priorities for our next years of governance, and in my speech, I have staked on these priorities. But what I want to determine is that this dividing line again leaves two million Bulgarian citizens who voted for this coalition government, outside the interest of the presidential institution. After all, the presidency still has two years left. I rely on Mrs. Yotova's political experience so that reasonable solutions can be found to help this president remain in the history of the presidential institution, not as the president who was most negative, who made the most threats to public peace. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , as President who has devalued the institution............................................................................................ [[Applause from GERB]] , namely, as President, the personification of the unity of the nation. Madam President, honourable Members, we have a dynamic session ahead of us. In this session the parliamentary group of GERB will continue to comply strictly with the commitments made to the Bulgarian citizens at the beginning of the current management term. We are aware that in the next two months, the country will be in a situation of election campaign, which will certainly reflect Parliament's work. Despite the importance of the upcoming elections for local government, our call is not to turn parliament into a field of election propaganda to replace its main function of creating laws and representing Bulgarian citizens. The new parliamentary session, which will largely be marked by local elections, will be a challenge for all of us, but it will also be an opportunity to show a high level of political culture because, apart from the daily tasks related to legislation and parliamentary control, we all together and individually have an obligation to maintain confidence in the democratic process and parliamentaryism. I hope that we realise that low trust in Parliament is not only a problem for the government or the opposition, it is a problem for democracy and for all of us. I will therefore call for constructive and effective work with which to try to restore trust in the National Assembly and the other institutions on which the democratic development of the country depends. During the upcoming session, the State Budget Act will be adopted, which will outline the political framework of 2020. For the MPs of GERB, the main priorities of this budget will be education, defence and security, economic growth, which will allow for a significant increase in the incomes of a wide range of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, we will continue the policy of non-symbol increase in teachers' salaries. This commitment of ours will remain inalienable until the end of the current government's term of office, because we know that in the modern world the field of education is fundamental to every single society. Reforms and current work in the field of education will give their fruit after years. Whether these fruits are good or bad will depend not only on the policy that this majority is pursuing, but also on the level of continuity that will demonstrate different parliamentary majorities and governments in the long term. We therefore call on opposition colleagues to participate constructively in Parliament's work and on this subject. I am convinced that together we will achieve much better results that will ensure the success of generations of Bulgarian children. Educating education as a major priority of governance is also part of our desire for rapid development of the Bulgarian economy. Only through a higher level of high-tech production and economic development can we significantly increase the incomes of Bulgarian citizens and workers and pensioners. Therefore, we will not change the line of economic policy which aims to improve the business environment, maintain low tax rates, actively seek strategic investors to trust the opportunities provided by the Bulgarian economy. Together with the incentives for business, we will continue the implementation of a social policy that will help people in need. For us, the fight against poverty is not about business restrictions, but on the contrary, only through a developed and prosperous business can we ensure that everyone who needs help from society and the state. Financial stability will continue to be among the main priorities of economic policy, because it is an essential factor in attracting strategic investors. Unfortunately, last session of parliament failed to achieve a high level of agreement on an important and fundamental topic, such as the modernization of the Bulgarian Army. However, the lack of consensus will not hesitate us to continue in this direction, because it is important after 30 years in which the army and the armed forces have been neglected, that their modernisation be carried out. After the commitment to modernisation of the air force that we have taken and implemented, we will continue with the modernisation of land troops and naval forces. We hope that in the process of work we will be able to achieve a higher level of agreement both within Parliament and between different institutions. We are doing this because ensuring national security is vital to all Bulgarian citizens. This is an insurmountable condition for both economic development and the development of Bulgarian society in the long term. Dear Members of Parliament, we continue to be convinced that the political stability, whose guarantor is the ruling majority, is the main factor in the development of the country and the peace of the people. That is why GERB will continue to respect its commitments within the framework of the coalition government, we will continue to listen to people's voice, because this voice is our only orientation in the complex and sometimes artificially hysterical political environment. We realize that the greatest responsibility for the country's rule falls on us and we will continue to try to carry this burden consistently and wisely. We will not succumb to provocations. We will respond to every attempt at confrontation with reasonable solutions and consistent policy, because for us, power is not an objective but an opportunity to work for our country and its citizens. We do not promise to destroy systems and make breakthroughs. On the contrary, our main commitment to the Bulgarian society will continue to be the construction of modern, unified and prosperous Bulgaria. This construction will not happen either with revolutions or with the passing of sharp dividing lines into society. In this regard, I would like to congratulate BSP leader Mrs Cornelia Ninova, who said a few days ago that the aggressive approach in politics is unproductive. We are aware of this fact from its creation as a political formation and this is the main reason to win and keep the trust of the majority of Bulgarian citizens. If this statement by Mrs. Nino is an extended hand of understanding on the country's main priorities, we are ready to take it and work together for the success of our country. I hope that during this session Parliament will be a place for a debate on ideas for a better life in Bulgaria, not a field for interpersonal confrontation and a generator of public tensions. I wish you success and God protect Bulgaria! [[Extreme applause by GERB, OP and VOLIA "Bulgarian Rodolivtsi".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u6	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, welcome! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Bulgarians! An interesting, intense political event begins parliamentary season. It is up to us who are gathered in this Chamber to make it complete and effective. Our contribution to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. For this effectiveness we will give basically five questions. They are not invented in our party headquarters, they are dictated by real life and people's problems, and they are: economics, social policy, I include health care, education, incomes and inequalities, rule of law and justice, fiscal policy and local self-government. Economics. Dear colleagues, the cliché continues that the state is a bad owner, that the market will regulate all relations, although the world and Europe have long understood that this is a mistake, that this created monopolies, gave power to large, killed small and medium-sized enterprises and deleted the middle class. Our proposals will specifically be for the role of the state in the economy, so including through tax incentives to help small and medium-sized enterprises, family companies and the middle class. We will make promises from us The Law on State Enterprises can be managed well. We often talk about investments. Direct foreign investment is an extremely important part of the development of the economy, but we are hearing less and less about production. The main backbone of each national economy is national production. Our attention will be focused there "Help for the production of Bulgarian goods and Bulgarian services, for which Bulgaria has potential, there are staff, there are markets. Many specialists, both global and European, are beginning to suggest that an economic crisis is coming. Our economy is not prepared for this. One of the main pillars to overcome such a crisis, to meet such a crisis is consumption, and it can be stimulated by an increase in income. That is why the second focus of our attention is social policy, but in particular an increase in income not only as an economic mechanism, but as a very difficult social problem. In the summer, statistics announced 90 new millionaires and nearly 2 million Bulgarians below the poverty threshold. And here our main thesis is the return of the role of the state. The state can help not only by increasing wages in the public sector, it can help through tax policy and redistribution of gross domestic product. You will see, you will get our proposal in this direction: recalculating pensions, reducing the VAT on medicines and basic foods, helping young families to raise children and so on. Third, rule of law. We understand and absolutely share the principle of separation of authorities and that the state should not interfere with the independent judiciary. The state has its role here to create such rules that this power can function fully and destroy the sense of injustice in the Bulgarian people. We will therefore submit a law imposing judicial control over the acts of the Prosecutor General and the Prosecutor's Office. I know there's going to be a lot of sharp debates about the election of the Attorney General. Our position is: rule of law, not of personality; rule of rules, not of single decisions. Our task is not to elect the Attorney General. It is not our job, it is our job to create such rules that the judicial system can function fully. There is a choice to be made again by the chairman of the KKCONPI, the time has come for us to take note of this conversation of understanding that the model that we have come up with to combat crime on the high levels of power in this form of KKCONPI is not working. We've led him to the point where the Chairman of the KKCONPI himself is the subject of an investigation into a crime. We will re-submit our proposal for another crime-fighting body model. The two European prosecutors are about to be elected. No one says anything about what rules they will be chosen by. This is where they define themselves. You will also have this proposal of ours, and you already have the banks have our proposal for a change in the PPC for dropping the rapid production in cases of severe bodily damage and murder. Madam President, I appeal as quickly as possible to look at this law without regard to the party which has tabled it. There is a national agreement for retribution on those who thus violate the law and do this to other Bulgarian citizens. It's a fiscal policy. And here our main focus is the state and the institutions. Dear colleagues, an absolutely wrong model for conducting fiscal policy! And here the President is right, and you know it, because we have spoken it many times in the Chamber of Bulgarian taxpayers' money is not spent on the state-established order through the budget. They spend one-on-one for party purposes and for group interests in the country. Therefore, you will see our positions, not for the first time, under the Public Finance Act and you will have a constitutional complaint in the Constitutional Court for non-compliance and for handing out the money to the Bulgarian taxpayers by decree of the Council of Ministers, outside the framework of Parliament and the budget. We assume that this will strengthen as a vicious practice as local elections approach: the SUV, the state budget in the trunk and the distribution through the party window and the elections of suitable mayors. You will get an institutional position on how to change this and really get into normal fiscal policy frameworks. Our next focus is the local self-government and the local authorities are coming elections, but not only for this. And here the state escapes its responsibilities by transferring permanent liabilities without funding to the municipalities and tells them: "Rise taxes and get well!" Our proposals within the framework of the budget and within the framework of amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration will be to remain part of the taxes available to the residents of municipalities, utility services to be carried out by municipal enterprises, not to be given concessions, special care for municipal hospitals and municipal schools. We will develop our entire proposal for a new health model in the country, in particular the municipal and state hospitals. Let the debate on local self-government and local government be meaningful in the direction of changing the existing governance model. And don't think of this as a nagging or using the parliamentary tribune as a party benefit in local elections, it's about principles, a misguided model that requires a high consent to its change if we really think about municipalities and citizens. Allow me, beyond the major priorities of the BSP for Bulgaria, to draw attention to two events of yesterday, which seem to be a major change in Bulgaria's foreign policy related to the question: are we a parliamentary republic or a single prime minister? I have questions for Mr. Borisov, honourable colleagues in charge. Which collective body in the state? Parliament or the Council of Ministers decided that one of the few priorities around which we have united for years, a number of governments, our entry into Schengen, is no longer a priority? Who decided that? And is the subject that the President put, here in the institutions, to return the decisions and not a single person yesterday to change the foreign policy course of Bulgaria. Why? Because if we enter Schengen, 150 refugees from Greece will come. This is not serious! In the biggest crisis of the refugee flow, we all wanted to enter Schengen. Now that there is no such thing, we suddenly decided that we do not want in Schengen! Why? Because they won't let us go and they won't let us go because you made a lot of mistakes because there is corruption because there is a breach in the security systems because you created a danger to European security, not only for the Bulgarian security. [[Heckling]] Why shouldn't we tell each other that? And because you dare not admit this mistake, you decide that you must take Bulgaria out of its European path and out of its way to Schengen. That is, he decides, not you, but I expect your reaction if you are really responsible politicians and you have called on us to have at least a few priorities around which we can all unite. My fellow Members, I would like to summarize in a few words the philosophy of our policy during this session, and not only because it has been consistent for years and I believe it will be. Everything I have set out to you, because there is no time, we are limited in time, I cannot speak in detail about all the policies and education and health, I will sum up: our policy is aimed at bringing the state back into those functions through the institutions, through the possible modern European policies, and not through state aid and so on. Let's get her back where she belongs. The big problem of all of us is the feeling of Bulgarian citizens, regardless of who they voted for for you, for us that the state is absent. Listen to them! The business on the occasion of the current: there is no state!Sisters on the occasion of salaries and health care: There is no state! This is what sums up, this is for us the challenge and policy that we will follow not only in this session but also in general: the role of the state and the return of its functions to the service of the citizens. If we have reason, we will achieve a result. I wish it all. Colleagues, successful session! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Colleagues, following the statement by Mr. Mustafa Karadaye, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u8	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In his address, the President outlined many of the problems of Bulgarian society, but most importantly, it is a good start for restoring dialogue between the institutions. You are right, Mr President, that Bulgarian citizens with dual citizenship have no right to be elected. But there is something more about them being deprived of their constitutional right to vote on this topic alone.The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is fighting battles to restore these constitutional rights. And you are also right that Bulgaria needs a program for accelerated, catching up economic development. On this topic, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is pushing for a dialogue to define national priorities. Today we open the autumn session for 2019 at the Forty-fourth National Assembly, saturated with important political processes, on the threshold of important elections for the whole society. The upcoming processes suggest strategic solutions for the future of each settlement, for each municipality, for the whole country, the region and Europe, because there is an important battle for strategies, for the future development of the country, for improving the life of every Bulgarian citizen. This requires political programmes and platforms, a long-term vision, political solutions with responsibility for national security, peace and democracy. Two days ago, we celebrated the 80th anniversary of World War II, the most bloody conflict in human history, the most sinister military clash that took the lives of nearly 60 million people and caused irreparable damage to human consciousness, which adversely altered millions of human fates. Such dates remind us of the importance of learning the lessons of history and how important it is to stop populism, to oppose division, xenophobia, and hatred. The upcoming period is a good reason to assess how well we are dealing with this task. Election rhetoric is the one that best reveals the essence of its carriers. Often, when capacity does not provide good opportunities, aggression, xenophobia and hatred are on the agenda. And last but not least, the main thesis is: One year ago we warned: statehood is in collapse, governance is dysfunctional and non-functioning, expertise is antony of every management decision, war is political, interinstitutional and internal institutional, it also drains the leftovers of reason in making management policy. This must stop because it is not so important that it cannot be managed so, but that such a type of government creates problems for the country and does not solve the problems of the citizens, but instead it deepens them. Incontinentness, inconclusiveness, anti-systemicity, lack of vision and the imposed tendency of hatred of everyone towards everything makes an inevitable new and economic, and political crisis. The election campaign is a good reason to stop the inert downward movement, to raise quality candidates who have the capacity and will to create conditions for the development of municipalities and overall improve the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens; candidates who know that power serves to solve people's problems; to improve people's lives and ensure security tomorrow. It is high time for everyone to realise that a national economy is needed and that without economic growth, European integration is impossible. In recent months, meetings with voters, sympathizers and citizens have convinced us that a party may have more weight than its membership table suggests. The influence has nothing to do with populism and empty promises, but with the party's daily work with staff, working on regions and solving people's problems when experts with understanding, motivated people, formulate strategic goals and draw up tactical moves to achieve them, in order to make these goals more reality. And this has nothing to do with the empty promises or the loud nationalist patriotism. Bulgarian society expects economic growth, guaranteed social services and European quality of life. We must constantly remind that each authority must exercise its powers responsibly and stand at the height of its responsibilities. Before us, Members of the National Assembly, the task of quality legislation, which permanently regulates public relations and guarantees the rule of law and a social state, stands irrevocably. It is important for the ruling party to realise that the country needs an accelerated economic development programme. Focusing on interparty and interinstitutional battles, diverting attention from the real problems of the state and the citizens cannot stop the feeling of timelessness and chaos in the country. Let the upcoming elections be an arena for battle between programs and platforms, for vision for development and economic growth, for conditions for foreign investments, but also for creating opportunities for the realization of the business projects of Bulgarian citizens to ensure high and sustainable growth. We, both as MPs and as politicians, must create conditions for bodies and institutions to work normally, according to the rules, to provoke a new type of large-scale thinking and to implement such investment policies in the context of current European realities, so as to ensure economic growth and European quality of life, employment and new jobs, quality education, social justice, stability and security of citizens. Such economic catch-up development is needed, which would ensure a reduction in the growing social tensions in the country. Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me finally congratulate everyone with the new session of the National Assembly and wish a fruitful job! I call on all of us to work for fair and democratic elections in the name of the development of municipalities and the creation of conditions for growth and a qualitatively new level of standard of living. Adherence to European values and follow European models means no populism, no extremism, but more democracy and tolerance, and more security [[GERB lines]] And that also guarantees a better future for us and our children. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. The floor has the chairman of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs" "Mr. Iskren Veselinov." Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! We only sent a month ago a political season that was very dramatic, saturated with parliamentary boycott, elections for the European Parliament, an attempt to destabilize governance and consequently provoke early elections. The applications at the beginning of this show that it will be no less interesting and dramatic, as it is natural for local elections to increase degrees and political activity of political players.Everyone in an attempt was to legitimize the area it consumes was to request a new one. However, we also hope for responsible behaviour by the political forces. We, from the United Patriarchs, are not so dramatic as to go towards them. We believe that this is indeed part of democracy, part of the way local communities will decide their future for the next four years. In this regard, we ask everyone to still think about statehood, to think respectfully about institutions and to speak respectfully about their institutions and political opponents, because in fact society is to a large extent what we do with our own behaviour. It doesn't matter what the government is or who's in charge. It's what it does, what it does as a policy. In this regard, I would also like to mention that the current government has been elected, including with our votes, the votes of the "United Patriarchs" with a programme that follows. Of course, the extent to which it follows it and the extent to which it performs it is a topic that needs to be discussed constantly. At least for us, at the beginning of this last third, we can say, from the mandate of the government, it is high time to make a systematic revision of what has been achieved and of what has not been completed, because we all take into account the positive things: the growth of income, for which we, the United Patriarchs, mostly held, which is the tool that will keep people here in Bulgaria. In fact, this is the most powerful demographic measure to stop the collapse. We cannot speak without economic revival and income growth for the return of our countrymen who have gone abroad or the detention of other young people here. We must add, of course, a decent economic growth that we would like, like everyone else, to be greater. The standing of sovereignty and national interests for us also happens during this government. The increase in defense capabilities, the efforts in the direction of infrastructure to solve the problems of the most remote regions in Bulgaria, such as Northern Bulgaria, the unblocking of the highway "Hemus" and the highway "Ruse" - Veliko Tarnovo, the road "Vidin" - Botevgrad - these are things that will give a new chance for the backward regions and we are pleased that these really important parts of the Programme for Management of GERB and the United Patriarchs are happening. However, we should not hide that there are problems.. the severe situation for example of state energy, the high price of electricity for the free market, the opaque distribution of shares of the cold reserve, the requests made from the highest level for neutral carbon energy by 2030, which threaten with bankruptcy all Bulgarian thermal plants, the impact on Bulgarian livestock farming. We must not forget that two years ago in this Chamber, we, from the United Patriarchs, were trying to convince you that the swine plague is a great threat, we proposed measures to limit billions of damage, and then the voice of some self-proclaimed ecologists proved to be stronger than the voice of the mind whose spokespersons we were. The fall in the tourist flow is also worrying. These are all problems that are real, which exist today in our country, which we need to debate and look for solutions. For us, the new political season will pass under the motto of three main priorities of security, income and patriotism. In the topic of security, we expect the adoption of the package of measures to deal with domestic marginal crime, which also includes overcoming the sense of impunity of offenders and criminals. We have submitted a draft amendment to the AKK with the introduction of administrative penalties. We demand more police presence in small towns, as, by the way, is written in our management program. We demand the adoption of a law on volunteering and regulation of the existence of volunteer squads in order to protect public order. We are also awaiting the adoption of changes in the PPC with the dropping of the abridged judicial investigation for these serious crimes... mostly the premeditated murders that we have witnessed. This legal institute practically allows murderers in 15 or 20 years to go out and again kill and commit crimes. This is what we have been putting up for four years, when commenting on the Code of Criminal Procedure has actually already been submitted to the National Assembly. We must accept at second reading the expansion of the limits of inevitable defence, and I hope this will be done literally in this month. Another important topic is the return of the debate on criminalisation of the preaching of radical Islam, the financing of religion from abroad, sermons in a language other than official. We believe that these topics quickly fell victim to a political conjuncture and should return again because this requires national interest. Stopping social parasitism through strict control of education, socialization and labouring by socially supported persons is also our priority. There must be a maximum annual sum of all social payments, because some cunning unemployed get more than the working poor. By the way, the Council of Ministers has submitted a Concept for dealing with the problems posed by the marginal gypsy communities, and neither it nor this problem in general can be neglected for long, because otherwise the problem will soon blow up social and ethnic peace in the country. A major priority for us remains the increase in incomes. The management programme records important steps, such as recalculating the old pensions allocated before 2010, shrinking the scissors between the minimum pension and the poverty line for the first time this year we have retreated from this rule. Older people's law is something that we will propose to the Parliament literally today, which will propose measures to protect this vulnerable category of our compatriots and propose additional social payments to ensure the social survival of the elderly. Last but not least, we insist on fulfilling our management commitment to free and compulsory kindergarten for all children from 4 years old up. With regard to patriotic topics, we have several main points: a systematic policy to strengthen the social self-consciousness of Bulgarians abroad, we demand the establishment of an institute for Bulgarian spelling and promotion of Bulgarian culture outside the country, for targeted financial support to our communities abroad, to their non-governmental organizations, media and schools, to facilitate the regime for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship from our compatriots, to create a map of Bulgarians, which gives access to our compatriots from the diaspora for fighting and working in Bulgaria. The introduction of military training in schools is something that we look forward to, the return of the Rodinozenia and more patriotism in the learning process too. We need to continue with our support, mostly financially, of course, the activities of the Chitalishtes, the Imaginers, the library work and so on. These are just a small part of the management commitments for which we will insist, and we do not hide that it is the price for staying in this government. We must not forget, of course, and the DPS, because, by entering into a coalition with GERB, we were primarily after this....... the power of this ethnic party. Although fewer and fewer people vote for it in mixed regions, it suddenly increases its support for eurovot in the Northwest, for example, especially in Gypsy neighborhoods. We insist that the Ministry of Interior investigate this strange expansion, which we believe is explained by only one thing: the criminalised buying of votes. We want clear guarantees that the local vote will not happen to either the DPS or anyone else should be allowed, because any newly acquired particle of power such political players turn into money and money into a higher election result. Finally, I would like to say that this government is coming to an end. Whether it will be natural and successful or premature and will leave a bad memory depends only on the ability for honest dialogue and the desire to fulfill the commitments made by the participants in it. We from the United Patriarchs will do whatever it takes to fulfill the will of the Bulgarian patriots. Bulgaria above all! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. And the last statement is from the parliamentary group of the Party Volya "Bulgarian Rhodophilists" by Mr. Veselin Mareshki. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u12	Dear Madam President, dear Mr President, dear Madam Vice President! "Volja" "Bulgarian Rhodolists" is to date the smallest parliamentary party, but seeing as how the disintegration is going with some colleagues, we may soon find ourselves a fourth or third political force in parliament. Mr. President, with great respect, however, for a large part of the Bulgarian citizens who elected you, it is my feeling that you are willing to change something, and you probably also have a vision of how to do it. I was listening to your speech and a few questions came up. The successful Bulgarians around the world yes, we should all strive to attract them, and the best thing is to make them stay in Bulgaria. And I ask: how many of these people are assigned to the presidential institution? We need to set a personal example. I can tell you with us in the party what I have done personally to keep them, how many people, what position they are, how they have evolved and so on. Let us set a personal example and let him become infected with all the other politicians. The second thing about the state of Bulgaria, we all know what it is. Obviously you are one of those people who appreciate this condition as negative. Now is the time of the upcoming elections. You know very well where the rise of GERB party started, and the Prime Minister started from the victory of the mayor's seat in Sofia. We are absolutely serious, not with ridicule, really seriously calling, and in fact these days we have such an occasion, once again to say it, with the male act of Mrs. Maya Manolova, who resigned from her place of residence, also one of the highest rankings in Bulgaria, and is going to fight for this particular chair, which would give her the opportunity to express her ideas in practice. We ask you once again, on the basis of your high rating: leave this pointless place, go out and join the race for Sofia to be a stepping stone for this change that you are preaching [[noise and lines]] Otherwise, this would rather be considered an escape from the struggle for change. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the new parliamentary session, there are several important topics that I would like to draw attention to. Firstly, it is clear that the election campaign, which starts in a few days, will be a priority for the parties, but we at "VOLIA" "Bulgarian Rodollickers".......................... are asking everyone to work so that local elections do not disturb the normal rhythm of legislative activity. Do not turn parliament into a square for populism and election rallies. Let the Bulgarians decide for themselves what the mayors have done for them and for their cities whether they have worked as good owners or failed and must be replaced. You know the phrase that time is money, and time in this building spends our employer's money on the people. Don't forget that! Every minute, every day must be used in the best way, and it must be made with decisions that improve people's lives. I will not tire of repeating that the success of a government is measured at the expense of every Bulgarian. If there's nothing there, then the majority hasn't done their job. The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists will continue to be the voice of the people during this session. We will remain irreconcilable to inaction, to lobbying or miswritten laws. We will also make a series of pragmatic proposals, for example in support of mothers and children, and I hope that they do not stand for two years on logs, as our bill for introducing the silent consent is laid down since the beginning of the mandate. At such a rate, reforms cannot happen, so we call for a better rhythm of work in this House. Secondly, we've all had enough of the mahlenian squabbles in the small management coalition. This offends not only theirs, insults all voters who expect people like you to show wisdom, reason and, above all, responsibility. Instead of making a scandal after a scandal, let them see their government footage. So far, for example, we have never heard from their deputy prime minister what measures to deal with the deepening demographic crisis have been proposed and implemented. I see no desire to fulfill other election promises. You know what happened in this room when the proposal for 300 leva was voted. a minimum pension, as was the promise of the Patriots. They went out and did not support their own program. These actions must be reminded because there are politicians who hope the voters will forget, but that is why we are here to prevent it. We will also be critical of the populism of BSP colleagues, who allowed themselves the luxury of three months not to come to work, while at the same time deceiving people that they cared about them. We at WALK continue to argue that the Socialist Party is no alternative to governance. Everyone sees how they, like pseudopatriots, are torn apart by internal intrigue. It is no longer a secret to anyone that, in the end, BSP's actions help the government to strengthen their positions. Here I use the time to ask: what is this municipality, which is won by BSP, and you are proud of its development, and you want to offer the Bulgarian society as an alternative to the other governments in Bulgaria? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I want to go and see a community run by the BSP, where people are so happy and satisfied, not to run away from this municipality, on the contrary, people going back there in crowds, wanting to live in it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u13	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u14	Show it to the Bulgarian citizens. To say why you want to expand your influence. Personally, unfortunately, I can't think of any of them. Thirdly, over 2 billion were spent in the last days of the previous session. lv. ..for jets so far. The paradox is that poor Bulgaria became a leading country in NATO after the US on arms costs. Our people have a very wise saying about such cases On whose account, though? At the expense of the people, because our country remains the poorest in the European Union. You know very well our position against the looting deal, thanks to which in fact came out the real management coalition... GERB, DPS, IMRO. The bitter fruits of it will be harvested by the people in the coming years. This will show this autumn with the discussion of Budget 2020 when we will again be told how there is no normal money for the pensioners, for the sick, for the doctors, for the teachers. I want to tell the government that after this deal no one will believe such excuses anymore. Since so much money was found so quickly for the Americans, there must be some for the Bulgarians as well. We at WOL will expect us to be offered a completely different budget from the current budget, which will significantly raise the standard of living of our people. From now on, if once again in this room, there is an excuse that some reform is slowing down because there is no money, people and we, as their representatives, will rightly ask: how did you find the planes? Don't think the problem is over. On the contrary, with the vote on this huge cost, you scored a goal because the people will remind you of it every time you try to convince him that he must continue to tighten the belt and live on the edge of poverty. At the beginning of the term, you all underestimated the will because we were new because our couloir intrigues were foreign. By the way, they will remain foreign to us from now on, because we will not give in to the principle of transparency and integrity. Now you know very well that we are different, that we have the will to continue to protect the interests of the Bulgarian people and in politics. We want this Parliament to do a real job for the benefit of the people, not to go without glory like others before it. There's still a year and a half left for this to happen. Let us not waste this priceless time in the name of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. Good luck to you all! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the legislative proposals and draft decisions from 31 July 2019 to 3 September 2019: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers are Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft decision to review the EU's sanctions policy with regard to the Russian Federation. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons in the Automated Processing of Personal Data. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on Support and Mediation for Translation Projects in South East Europe and the Accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products for 2018. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. The importer is Alexander Sabanov. It is allocated to the lead Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products. Importer is the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please, colleagues! It is allocated to the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health. A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Financial Instruments Markets Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Energy and to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. To the President of the National Assembly Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 954-01-6 Message: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 7 August 2019 a Decree No 195 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Military Intelligence Act adopted by the National Assembly on 26 July 2019 is returned for a new discussion. It is entrusted to the leading Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications to report to the MPs the President's Decree and the reasons for it. Message: In connection with the decision of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" adopted and announced in plenary on 25 July 2019 on the exclusion of the MPs Volen Siderov, Desisslav Chukolov and Pavel Shopov, I inform you that according to art. 23, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly Vice-Presidents of Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the parliamentary group of whose quota they have been elected. On this basis, they were released: the People's Representative Pavel Shopov as Vice-President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the People's Representative Desislav Chukolov as Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. In accordance with art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be announced without discussing and voting. One more message: To Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, Chairman of the Forty-fourth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria Dear Ms. Karayancheva, on the grounds of art. 15, para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Ombudsman, I deposit my resignation as Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please terminate my powers as Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, with entry No 939-02-12 on 3 September 2019 a letter was received from the Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova. In the letter she stated that she resigned as an ombudsman what I read to you just now. In accordance with art. 15, para. 1, t. 6 and para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the powers of the Ombudsman shall be terminated early by the National Assembly upon resignation, in which case no decision shall be adopted, and the resignation shall be announced by the President of the National Assembly before the National Assembly. For this reason and on the grounds of art. 15, para. 2 in relation to para. 1, t. 6 of the Law on the Ombudsman, I declare the resignation of Mrs. Maya Bozhidarova Manolova as Ombudsman. Ms. Manolova's powers as Ombudsman have been suspended as of today, 4 September 2019. Dear colleagues, Mrs Manolova's letter containing her resignation and the reasons for her resignation, together with an attached report on her activities as Ombudsman, are provided to you by sending them to your office e-mails as required by § 7 of the Additional Rules of the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly. I also inform you that on the basis of art. 17, para. 2 of the Law on the Ombudsman upon early termination of the powers of the Ombudsman, the Deputy Ombudsman takes up the office of Ombudsman until the election of a new Ombudsman. By decision of the National Assembly adopted on 28 January 2016 Mrs. Diana Petrova Kovacheva was elected Deputy Ombudsman. In accordance with art. 12 of the Law on the Ombudsman taking up office as Ombudsman takes place after taking an oath before the National Assembly. After the first point of tomorrow's meeting, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva will take an oath to the National Assembly as Ombudsman. We move on to proposals for inclusion in the agenda under art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First should have had proposals.. you know that there is a rotational principle of the parliamentary groups of GERB and BSP there are no such proposals. There is a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include as a point of the forthcoming weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 4 September 2019. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax on Individuals, No 854-01-88, from 13 December 2018, submitted by Alexander Sabanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, who's going to introduce us to the Bill? Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you the Bill of Supplements to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Our proposal is an addition to art. 24, para. 2, p. 11. The aim of this change is to overcome a gap in legislation in which no law is actually allowed. I'll read it. 11 to make it clear at the table by the MPs: "The value of the one-off aid granted by the employer at the expense of the social costs of giving birth to a child, marriage or death of a family member..."............................................................................. to add........................................................................................................................................................ We of the United patriots believe that the two responsibilities are equally serious, both for the adoptive parents themselves and for the adopted child as well as for the Bulgarian society. In this way we will still give the employer the right to pay a sum of 2,400 BGN and those who receive them not to pay a tax on it, which we think is pointless. This is one of the changes we make. We have imported it in real December 2018. Unknown why it has not been seen so far. I believe and count on the support of all the parliamentary groups for this, because this is a proper action on our part, and "United Patriarchs" will thus encourage adoption as part of solving the demographic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Colleagues, debates are open. I don't see any wishes to make a statement. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u18	Colleagues, please take your seats. Again, please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs. I put to the vote the Bill supplementing the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals with importers, the People's Representative Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second point of the Work Programme: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. I will introduce you to the letter of the National Representative Ivan Genov from the Sixth Multiannual Election Region of Vratsa, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP at the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I request a decision of the National Assembly for early termination of my credentials with effect from 4 September 2019 I present to you a servant. Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the mandate of Ivan Kirov Genov as MP in the Sixth Election Region Are there any speeches, colleagues? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The decision's been made. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURING. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u19	Colleagues, I'm gonna ask for access to the hall. Let's give our vote for Luchezar Borissov "Deputy Minister of Economy," and Katerina Piperova "State Expert."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u20	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. Sustained. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u21	The law on R&D&I and the law on R&D&I. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u22	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u23	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u24	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u25	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced Art. 29a. (1) Approval of the type of measuring instruments shall include: 1. a review of the documents and the technical file of the type of measuring instrument; 2. examination of the type of measuring instrument; 3. assessment of the conformity of the type of measuring device with its technical and metrology requirements; 4. issue of a certificate for an approved type of measuring instrument and entry in the register of type of measuring instrument approved for use. (2) The period of implementation of the type-approval stages shall be for: 1. a review of the documents and the technical file of the type of measuring instrument which is up to: (a) 30 days from the submission of the application for measuring instruments of a non-approved type, such as for measuring instruments under art. 29, para. 3 that period may also include a study of the experience of other metrology authorities in the metrology control of the applied for limited type-approval of measuring instruments; (b) 20 days from the submission of the application for the measuring instruments under art. 29, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (c) 20 days from the submission of the application for measuring instruments for the extension of the validity of an approved type and for the extension of the period of validity of a limited type approval; 2. assessment of the conformity of the type of measuring device with its technical and metrology requirements 3. issue of a certificate for an approved type of measuring instrument and entry in the register of measuring instrument types approved for use within three days of the adoption of the type-approval report of the measuring instrument.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u26	Are there any statements under § 3? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 3. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u27	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The period for carrying out the initial verification of the measuring instruments shall be up to 30 days from the date of its application, except where the applicant has indicated a longer period.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u28	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u29	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. The second sentence shall be created: The time limit for carrying out the metrology expertise shall be no longer than 12 months from receipt of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u30	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 5. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u31	Colleagues, thank you for your extremely constructive and active participation in the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u32	You, as always, managed to achieve an amazing consensus. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ivanov, you will present the Report. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 902-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 24 July 2019, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications was discussed, No 902-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Ivan Dimitrov Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Maria Kaleva Head of Department at the Department of Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, and Mrs. Neda Koycheva Director of the Directorate of Legal and Communications Regulation. Mr. Genovski presented the Draft by clarifying that it was drawn up in the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union, to introduce implementing measures for Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down measures on access to the open internet and amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and consumer rights in relation to electronic communications networks and services and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union, introduced by its amendment by Regulation (EU) 2018/1971 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 establishing the Body of European Regulators in the field of Electronic Communications (BEREU) and the Agency for the Support of BEREC (the BEREC Office), amending Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009. Data on the internal market of electronic communications within the European Union collected by BEREC and the Commission in 2017 and 2018 show that there are significant differences between prices for national fixed and mobile voice communications and text messages and those applying to the same services to Member States of the European Union. The average standard price in the European Union of fixed or mobile call within the Union is three times higher than the standard national call price. The standard price for text message within the European Union is more than twice the national price. These excessive prices mainly affect consumers who use such services relatively rarely within the European Union or have a low consumption volume, which practically includes the majority of consumers. Mr Genovski explained that action has been taken in response to these problems at European level, according to which new rules limiting the prices that providers of publicly available interpersonal communications services with numbers may impose on consumers for mobile and fixed voice and text communications services within the European Union as of 15 May 2019. In so far as these rules are entirely new, national law does not provide for sanctions for their infringement. Therefore, it is intended to implement a system of effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in a timely manner with the IDC Project. The importers stressed that there were provisions for violation of the requirement under art. 5a paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Regulation shall not apply retail prices (without value added tax) to users of regulated intra-EU communications exceeding 0,19 euro cents per minute for calls and 0,06 euro cents for text messages. In addition, penalties are laid down for suppliers not providing information relevant to the national regulatory authority for exercising regulatory powers in respect of retail prices of regulated intra-EU communications and for not providing pre-contractual information to end-users. Mr. Genovski noted that the minimum size of the sanctions envisaged by the project is consistent with the fact that the addressees of the obligations under art. 5a of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 are not only the large operators in force in Bulgaria but also those with significantly less revenue and market share. The maximum amounts envisaged are consistent with the ability of large enterprises to pay the penalties and the effect that these penalties would have on their profits, and this effect should motivate undertakings to comply with the requirements laid down. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion took place in which the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Halil Letifov took part. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 902-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the read-out report and the ZID that I have presented is really necessary. It is in the implementation of several regulations and directives of the European Council and the European Union, so that, as in the Commission, we unanimously supported these changes, which are fully in favour of society, to respect the regulations, not excessive increases in the prices of electronic services, understand the messages, I believe that we will also be united here to do our job in terms of this being European legislation, to find its impact in the Bulgarian legislation and to adopt the corresponding sanctions for violation of these regulations, which are in fact to the detriment of Bulgarian citizens who are also Bulgarian consumers. We will support these changes with the idea of maintaining public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I can't see. I close the debates and put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Procedure, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal to shorten the period of three days for the newly adopted Bill at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u38	Thank you. Opposite opinion? I can't see. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Mr. Letifov. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with: ANNUAL YOUTH REPORT 2018 The report belongs to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Who will present the report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports At its regular meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Commission discussed and discussed the Annual Youth Report for 2018 and the Draft Decision No 902-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Petar Mladenov and Gergana Roshmanova from the Directorate of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, Mr. Todor Yosifov and Mr. Anton Berdankov from the National Youth and Sports Association. Stanimir Boyadjiev and Alexandra Vasileva from the Bulgarian Youth Red Cross, and Yana Vangelova Chairman of the National Representation of Student Councils. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Deputy Minister Nikolay Pavlov. In his presentation Mr. Pavlov informed the MPs that the Annual Youth Report presents information on the state of youth in the country and takes into account the measures taken by the responsible institutions to meet the objectives of the public youth policy in 2018. The first parts of the report are focused on the profile of young people and their main demographic characteristics. The fourth and main part presents the measures implemented by the responsible institutions, corresponding to the 2010 National Youth Strategy. The report uses data from the National Statistical Institute, Eurostat and other national and international studies related to the topic of the document and the reporting period. Some of the main points involving measures taken by the institutions and conclusions from the study are: - the share of early leaving the education system at the age of 18 years is 12.4%, which is a decrease of 0.3 percentage points compared to the value in 2017. In the period 2016 to 2018, there is a formation of a short-term positive trend related to a decrease in the share of early leaving the education system in Bulgaria, especially in the last 2 years; - actively working on reintegration into the educational process of students returned to school who have dropped out according to age; selecting and directing a particular profession corresponding to the profile of the specific person who will be directed towards training through work; - unemployment in Bulgaria in 2018 registered a sustainable downward trend after the indicator dropped from 5.7% in the first quarter to 4.7% at the end of the fourth. Youth unemployment data (15 years of age and 29 years of age) also showed a decrease to 7.4% in 2018, compared to 9.9% in 2017; - the identification and activation of young people who do not learn, are not educated, are not working and are not registered in the labour bureaus is still an important priority in 2018. They have been given support for starting a job, including training or returning to the educational system. 3a young people from the group and for their activation work youth mediators whose activity is mediation between economically inactive young people and the institutions that provide them with the appropriate services; - in the implementation of the priority "Promoting a healthy lifestyle" The Youth and Sports Department implements the implementation of the Programme "Sport for Children in Free Time" for organizing and conducting free sports activities of children in their free time in their preferred sport, and through the program "Development the sport of students" is implemented the policy for improving the quality and effectiveness of activities in the field of school and student sport; - in 2018 under the National Program for the Implementation of Youth Activities under art. 10a of the Gambling Act for 2018, programmes are financed to help build socially responsible behavior and prevent different forms of addiction and/or aggression and improve the quality of life and the environment in which young people live and communicate. At the end of his exhibition Mr. Pavlov stressed that the strategic vision is aimed at building and implementing a unified, consistent and sustainable youth policy in Bulgaria, based on the multisectoral approach, cross-sectoral cooperation and joint management with young people at national, regional, regional and municipal level. People's representatives Ivan Chenchev, Hristo Prodanov, Svetlana Angelova, Sevim Ali, Mikhail Hristov and Slavcho Atanasov took part in the discussion of the Report. The MPs involved in the discussion unanimously expressed their positive assessment of the serious volume of work carried out on the preparation of the report. The MPs Ivan Chenchev, Hristo Prodanov and Mikhail Hristov expressed reservations about the objectivity of the statistics presented in the report. People's representative Sevim Ali voiced concern over some of the data mentioned in the Report determining the opinion of young people on their quality of life. Mrs. Svetlana Angelova expressed her satisfaction with the results reported in the report, adding that they should continue their efforts in this direction. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov stressed that the report is well structured and analytically sound, but also suggested that the representative sociological survey was done among the young people from the large settlements. Representatives of the nationally represented youth organizations and the National Presidency of Student Councils unanimously supported the report. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 10-vote vote, the National Assembly proposed to adopt the Annual Report on Youth for 2018 and the Draft Decision No 902"18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u40	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting the Annual Youth Report 2018, No 902-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 17 July 2019 discussed and discussed a draft decision adopting the Annual Youth Report for 2018, No 902-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, who presented the Annual Youth Report for 2018. Mr. Pavlov pointed out that the information in the Annual Youth Report is in line with the main priorities of the youth policy in the country, enshrined in the National Youth Strategy (2010 According to information in the report, the number of young people in the country aged 15-29 as of 31 December 2018 was 1,042 915, of which 784 953 lived in the cities and 257 962 in the villages. The NSI target forecast shows that in the period until 2020, the number of young people will decrease, particularly sharply affecting the age groups 15 - 19 and 20 - 24 C.E. The report reports a positive picture of young people's employment assessment and provides information that the youth unemployment rate (people between 15 years of age and 29 years of age) is 7.4 per cent, which is 2.5 per cent lower compared to 2017. What is reported as a negative is that the share of those who do not work in their speciality is high. As of the end of December 2018, the total number of social services in the community for children and adults, including from a resident type, is 1154, with a total capacity of 23,992 seats. Of them suitable for children and young people aged 18-25 are 1082 capacity 22 505. The report reports that Bulgarian youths do not have serious social deficits, with 71% of young people thinking that their funds are sufficient for full nutrition, buying clothing, buying shoes, paying electricity and buying medicines. Young people who are in a difficult social situation are mostly part of ethnic minorities, which is the main factor for their low social status. One of the key issues among young people is related to their moods towards emigration, a third point out that at the first opportunity they would go to live abroad and 17% in another locality in the country. This is especially valid for young people living in villages and small settlements. There is a tendency to increase the number of returning young people in Bulgaria after completing their education abroad. Young people in Bulgaria are largely optimistic, but there is still a large share of young people who are not interested in politics. There is a low commitment of young Bulgarians in a similar type of activity - members of a political party, association, non-governmental organization or other type of organization, members of a professional organization. There is a need to improve coordination between institutions to increase the effectiveness of early career guidance measures, as well as to invest in appropriate forms of training to acquire professional skills and key competences and develop entrepreneurial spirit. In conclusion, Mr. Pavlov said that young people in Bulgaria, such as their peers in Europe, face countless challenges related to their education, realization, quality of life and so on. The Young People's Group is one of the most dynamic because of the rapid transition from one role to another This implies a clear analysis and a definition of clearly achievable targets in relation to each of the designated groups that come into the general population as young. The data clearly shows that nuances among young people require mandatory flexibility in planned activities and measures. The discussion was attended by the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Violeta Zheleva, Kalin Popovski, Mikhail Hristov and Errol Mehmed. After the end of the discussion and voting with results 12 votes.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Mr. Nikolai Pavlov to Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u44	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next report belongs to the Health Committee. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on an annual youth report for 2018 and a draft Decision No 902-00-18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting on 18 July 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2018 and the Draft Decision No 902-00-18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Petar Mladenov, Director of the Directorate of Health and Health, Ms. Gergana Roshmanova. The annual youth report for 2018 was presented by Mr. Nikolay Pavlov "Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports." The report shall be drawn up and submitted on the basis of art. 5, para. 2 of the Youth Act. The Annual Report sets out changes in the socio-economic situation of young people and takes into account the implementation of the priorities and objectives of the National Youth Strategy in the relevant year. As of 31 December 2018, the population of Bulgaria was 7 000 039. Compared to 2017, the country's population decreased by 49,95 people. In the past year 62 197 live births were registered in the country, which is 1758 children less than in 2017. The statistics of the National Statistical Institute show that similar to trends in the EU, the group of 15 years of age is significantly smaller than other age categories. This is a trend that will remain because of the low birth rate. During the past year, in the framework of the National Programme for the Prevention of Chronic Infectious Diseases 2014 - 2020 of the Ministry of Health, a large number of health promotion and prevention activities have been carried out among children and students. Activities are aimed at limiting risk factors such as smoking, unhealthy eating, alcohol use, low physical activity, as well as biological risk factors for chronic non-infected diseases. For the implementation of national anti-drug policy, the National Drug Council has built a network of municipal drug councils. These municipal councils have a key role and responsibility for implementing the National Strategy for the Fight against Drug Addiction 2014 - 2018 and its Action Plan at municipal level. The activities of municipal drug councils are aimed at preventing the first use of drugs; limiting the risk of growing use of abuse and dependence, as well as reducing the harm caused by drug use to the individual and society. The report also focuses on the Health Education Programme, which is aimed at students from 5 to 12 grade. It contains 4 main modules "Preventing the use of psychoactive substances; prevention of alcohol; prevention of smoking; and prevention of HIV/AIDS. Among the main objectives of the programme are: promoting health as a factor for social well-being; increasing awareness of the nature and role of psychoactive substances and their impact on the human organism; the formation of skills for assertious behavior to ignore the influence of peers and adults who provoke the use of psychoactive substances; the formation of knowledge about safe sexual relations. Preventive campaigns are being carried out on the occasion of various world days, as well as trainings of students on various topics to lead a healthy lifestyle. The National Center for Drug Addiction is involved in prevention activities, with 5 campaigns, 17 trainings, 15 meetings, 7 seminars and a round table last year. A key point in the analysis and study of the state of young people in the country is their self-assessment of their health. 88% define their health status as excellent and very good and only 1% appreciate their condition as bad. There was a percentage decrease compared to 2017, when 93% of young people assessed their health as excellent and very good. Significantly lower levels of engagement shall be reported with regard to preventive examinations. Only 48% say they do. In addition to their health, young people also appreciate their financial opportunities for buying medicinal products. Most young people do not have financial difficulties in buying such ones. Data with regard to harmful habits as well as drug use and drugs indicate that a large number of Bulgarian young people are aware of the negatives of drug use, alcohol, cigarettes and unprotected sexual contacts. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: 15 votes for the 2016 Annual Youth Report, No 902-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will present to us Mrs. Petrova. Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u47	"COMMODITY" on an annual youth report for 2018 and a draft Decision No 902-00-18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Report on Youth for 2018 and the Draft Decision No 902-00-18 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Nikolay Pavlov, Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports, Petar Mladenov, Director of the Department of Policies and Gergana Roshmanova. The annual report was presented by Mr. Nikolai Pavlov. The report is aggregated information from the competent institutions responsible for youth policies, as well as from the national representative survey conducted among young people in the country whose aim is to clearly show the target group's specifics (15 years old) problems, socio-economic realities, the lifestyle of young people, and their attitudes and values. The questions set out in the study follow the main topics and priorities set out in the National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020: promoting economic activity and career development of young people; improving access to information and quality services; promoting a healthy lifestyle; preventing the social exclusion of young people in disadvantaged situations; developing youth volunteering; increasing civic activity; developing young people in small towns and rural areas; developing intercultural and international dialogue and increasing the role of young people in crime prevention. Bulgaria's membership in the European Union applies the standards, values, criteria and principles of modern policy for the benefit of young people. Conceptual policy is based on the following points: youth is a valuable resource; every young person is important; encouraging youth potential; investing in youth; creating an opportunity and providing access to the formation and implementation of state youth policy. National Strategy for Youth 2010 - 2020 is currently in place in Bulgaria, which represents the first long-term vision for the development of young people. The data referred to in the Annual Report outline the main conclusions drawn aimed at improving and laying the foundations for new youth policies, taking into account the dynamics in the development of the different profiles of young people and objectively existing socio-demographic characteristics. With regard to internal security and public order, the study shows that police authority is stable. More than 50% of young people would turn to this institution. However, the study recorded a large share of passivity and inertness in relation to the responsible civil behaviour of young people, as regards their reaction to an infringement which they witnessed - 69% have not submitted and do not intend to submit an alert against an infringement which they have witnessed. The study shows rather latent and passive readiness for young people to participate in volunteering. In the presence of a good environment for attitude to the problem and activation of readiness, we can conclude that there is a great potential for involving young people in voluntary initiatives. In 2018, in implementing the Priority Plan and meeting the objectives of the National Council for Crime Prevention, the Directorate-General for National Police at the Ministry of Interior developed and implemented a pilot project among students (target group 14 - 18 years) on their behaviour in sporting events. A training methodology and relevant didactic materials have been developed. A preventative campaign has been implemented to protect your pocket as part of the European campaign for the prevention of pickpocketing during sports and other mass events. Under the National Program The police work in the schools was given 8021 lectures and lectures in 6934 classes from 1st to 12th grade. Three closing events took place during the months of May "June " Holiday, hello! Let's play safe in the cities of Varna, Veliko Tarnovo and Smolyan. In 2018, 163 children's police departments were opened and 4075 children were trained. During the accounting year 19 929 of offenders are young people aged 14 to 30 years, which is 41.3% of the total number of perpetrators. Compared to 2017, a decrease of 8,69% of the found juvenile offenders was reported. The conclusions in this regard suggest the need for coordinated and targeted actions of competent institutions, including legislative initiatives to educate and activate civil behaviour, adequate to the values and principles of modern policy towards young people. The Ministry of Youth and Sport also supports the National Youth Information Page from which valuable information can be found for the benefit of young people. People's representatives Krasimir Yankov, Tanya Petrova, Nikola Dinkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Krasimir Tsipov took part in the debates. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers and 6 votes abstentions supported the submitted Annual Youth Report for 2018 and the Draft Decision No 902/19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u48	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on an annual youth report for 2018, No 902-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 11 July 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Annual Report on Youth for 2018, No 902-00-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Petar Mladenov, Head of the Department of National and European Youth Policies and Information and Mrs. Gergana Roshmanova, Chief Expert at the Directorate of the Ministry of Youth and Sports, who presented the Report on behalf of the importer. The annual report on youth for 2018 shall be drawn up on the basis of art. 5 of the Youth Act. The report is a combination of aggregated information from all institutions whose activities relate to young people in the country, data from the National Statistical Institute, Eurostat and other national and international studies related to the topic of the document and the reporting period, and from a national representative survey among young people in the country, the Ministry of Youth and Sport is the contracting authority. The structure of the report is in line with the main priorities of the policy for young people in the country, laid down in the National Strategy for Youth (2010 - 2020), adopted by the Council of Ministers. The main aspects and priorities of the strategy are improving the quality of life of young people through sustainable mechanisms for investing in youth as significant social capital for the development of the country, promoting economic activity and career development, improving access to information and quality services, promoting a healthy lifestyle, preventing the social exclusion of disadvantaged young people, developing youth volunteering, increasing civic activity, developing young people in small towns and rural areas, developing international and intercultural dialogue and increasing the role of young people in crime prevention. The report presents structured and detailed information on the results of the main priorities and the measures and activities taken by the state institutions and municipalities in the country for their implementation in 2018. The relevant conclusions and recommendations for the activities of the individual priorities are made, providing for the actions to be taken by the responsible institutions to improve the conditions for life and realization of young people in the country. During the discussion, questions were raised by Commissioners, who were answered by representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On the basis of the discussions and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes......................................................................... and 3 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. We are continuing the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is commendable that, after the National Assembly at its meeting on 20 February 2019 discussed, discussed and adopted the annual youth reports for 2016 and 2017, now only five six months after that, the approval of the annual youth report submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019 is on the agenda, i.e. the legal requirements of the Youth Act are complied with. Well, I guess that's all the commendations are gonna be. The State Youth Policy is conducted by the Council of Ministers through the Minister of Youth and Sports and in accordance with the National Youth Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Council of Ministers in 2012 and is until 2020. It defines the long-term objectives and priorities of the state policy for the youth of the Republic of Bulgaria, and the National Assembly approves an annual report on youth on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. So for seven years now, but what are these reports, the results and the consequences of them at all? It is really nice that they have them so that the MPs, and through them and the public, can get acquainted with the giant push of this government to deal with young people's problems through some youth policies. However, this seems to be the only good thing in these reports, but it is far from enough. They lack a vision of what are the challenges facing youth or rather an analysis of these challenges. Can a report based on its conclusions assess the objectives and priorities of the public youth policy and, on its basis, make an update of the Strategy so that it can be adequate to the contemporary challenges facing youth and to our society? I ask these questions because the reports are not what they should be, but a summary of the measures implemented by authorities and institutions responsible for the development and implementation of youth policies in Bulgaria. The 2018 report is no exception. He, in my opinion, presents the problems of young people in a pink light in order to outline how much and how good work this government has done for the benefit of young people. A little criticism and identification of unresolved problems for the Bulgarian youth will not reduce the image of the government. With these reports, the government behaves like an ostrich when it sees danger, burys its head in the sand, but the danger does not diminish. As uncritical and positive as the reports are, the problems of the young people in Bulgaria and the problems of the Bulgarian society with them will not disappear. Social economic realities, the way young people live, and their attitudes and values are very different from the conclusions made in the report. In support of this, I would mention that a large part of Eurostat's data on Bulgaria, as well as our national statistics, rather confirm my claims rather than the claims in the Report and regarding the worsening demographic indicators of low birth rate, high migration, ageing population and so on. With regard to the incomes of young people in Bulgaria, it is not enough that we are last in the European Union on incomes, but also young people who start their careers start with even lower salaries and incomes, that is, they are among the most vulnerable groups in this regard. And here I am not talking about the youth GERB and about the political appointments of young people in the state and municipal administration, and I am not talking about that insignificant part of young people who start working in high-tech, mainly foreign companies, but I am talking about the table of Bulgarian young people and girls who, because of our confused education system, receive inappropriate education, no or very low and mostly inappropriate qualification. This mass of people is huge because of this and because of the lack of experience relatively difficult these young people find work. And if they still have the happiness of getting a job, it's low-paying and not prestigious. A lot of young people don't study, have no job, and don't look for it. They are waiting for the state to find them a job of any kind, but with a salary of about £1,200. and do not find it patriotic to stay in Bulgaria when their hopes are not justified. That's why they often emigrate. What do you say, Members of the National Assembly, does this report reflect the objective reality regarding the emigration of young people from Bulgaria for economic reasons? Are you aware that more than 21% of young Bulgarians aged 20 to 34 are neither studying nor working? This is according to Eurostat, not my opinion. The average indicator for the European Union is 16.5% and according to the National Statistical Institute young Bulgarians from 20 to 34 years are about 1 million. 200,000, which means that approximately 250 thousand of our compatriots, or almost every fifth young Bulgarian, have been demotivated both to learn and to educate and to work last year 2018. Does the report answer why this is so? The majority of youths do not have a personal monthly income. Some of them receive money as working in the gray economy, others from parents, thirds of income from abroad or from some kind of rent. Does the report answer why this is so? However, the report is presented as having the ambitious task of giving information about the state of youth in our country and taking into account the measures taken by the responsible institutions in the implementation of state policy in this area in 2018. However, in my opinion, despite the diligence, there is a report of the measures taken, but as a whole, it has not been received, but rather a mechanical sum of reports. This does not give us the real complete and accurate information about the state of youth in Bulgaria. Does the report identify, describe and analyze youth attitudes and patterns of behavior in modern society? My answer is no! The mistaken Bulgarian transition for 30 years has caused shocks in all sectors and affected the fate and life prospects of thousands of Bulgarians. Of course, young people were not passed away. The consequences of this chaos in the development of the state reflect painfully and on them by facing new challenges, including increasing the risk of dropping out of school, difficult inclusion in the labour market, long-term unemployment, marginalization and social exclusion. More and more young people do not engage in education, employment and training. The report does not cover a wide range of young people's problems concerning life's work experience, values and aspirations in different areas of life such as education, employment, participation in politics, family relations, free time and the use of information and communication technologies, but also their values, attitudes and beliefs. The report, in my opinion, lacks the objectives pursued by youth policies in 2018. How does the 2018 report differ from the 2017 report or 2016 report? What will be changed in these policies for 2019 based on the analyses and conclusions of the 2018 Report? What is the degree of mobilization and unification of the institutions' efforts at state and regional level, local authorities, social partners and non-governmental organisations to create a supportive environment for young people so that they can fully participate in public life and achieve their full potential? Are we satisfied with what we've achieved? What are we doing wrong? Because no matter how many successes we take into account, we are far from long-term overcoming the challenges facing, for example, the problems of institutions with young people who do not work and are not engaged in learning and training. I will not mention the institutions here, but they are clear and in most cases the people who work in these institutions are not at all pleased that they do not offer adequate services to young people, but are responsible for those who manage the state because they do not appoint such adequate and profitable policies. How are reports reflected, for example, the problems of young Roma? What are their problems? They are a relatively large part of the demotivated. How are these talks and the problems of young people living in villages and small towns reflected? Aren't these problems causing the depopulation of small settlements and internal migration? In the report, I do not see any criticism and conviction that overcoming these problems is possible only if it becomes a common cause by all interested parties. It is up to the entire society that young people have a chance for development and a better future, because their success depends on the prosperity of this same society, on them depends the future of Bulgaria. But as we accept such reports in the style of a report, the problems of the youth society and the problems of the youth themselves will deepen. I suggest that we don't approve the report now. Not that anything will change, but if we do, maybe the executive will stop insulting us with such creations and make a quality document on which we will be able to move forward and solve the challenges of youth policy. Things are serious, and the more we create illusions that we are solving the problems with such fancy reports and reports, the more the problems will deepen and we will not be able to solve them, but by solving the future of Bulgaria as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? The next statement is Mr. Prodanov's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, as it became clear from the speech of colleague Gokov, we from the BSP parliamentary group will not support this report for a very simple reason. In it, much of the findings and data that are laid down are obviously false, and when you misdefined the problems, then it is difficult to find working solutions to deal with these problems. The colleague Gyokov pointed out and gave a lot of examples. I'll only give two that seemed really extremely fracking to me. This report claims that about 70% of young people see an extremely serious perspective to live in Bulgaria. Colleagues, do you think that's true? [[(Reply from the National Representative Manoil Manev:]] In my opinion, it is only true if this study has been carried out in the youth organization of GERB, if you believe that. [[Heckling]] Another serious and obvious false finding is that about 70% of young people see their future and perspective in the locality they live in. This, honourable Members, can only be true if it is done in some of the three largest cities in Bulgaria. In the rest of the cities and villages in Bulgaria, young people really feel depressed, really do not see any perspective and see no future for their lives and their development for the simple reason that there are no simple things like cinemas, theatres, schools, health services, and everything thanks to the policy led in recent years, in which everything that is profit is closed and the state and municipalities raise their hands accordingly. So there are many reasons why we will not support this report, and my colleague Gyokov also listed them, and I said some of them. When the declarations of the parliamentary groups were read at the beginning of today's session, the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB appealed for political consensus, dialogue and consent. Political consensus and dialogue, yes, but only when the real problems are named. Based on these sugary reports and these powdered statistics, we cannot reach political agreement because people will not allow it. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Are there lines? There are no lines. Mrs. Jeleva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u55	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! A large part of the things that we do not agree with on the so presented youth report, colleagues have shared them, but I would like to highlight some of the main trends that you outlined in the presentation because they are contradictory. First of all, because I am from a small place, I believe that one of my main calls and mission is to protect people in small towns and rural areas. Several times the report said this was a serious priority. Each report mentioned the analysis and the measures for the implementation of youth policies in small towns. But on this implementation of employment measures in small towns and rural areas, what does it say? Only 23% point out that they can get a good salary at the place where they currently live and at the same time 45% of these young people cannot find work. The decline in small settlements also motivates a relatively large number of young people to consider changing their locality and living in another so that they can find a good job. Therefore, regional employment policies should be focused. And here I would like to share with you that this regional employment programme has given only 244 young people the opportunity to find work in the areas concerned from the 2018 data presented. You can say there are other programs. Yes, you will probably quote larger figures, with 3521 young people working on all programs and measures, which is also not a big number. There must be a stronger and greater role for the state in these particular regions, because there depopulation is very strong. We need to find an employment policy not bureaucratic, but state-owned, because in the reports we heard how and what programs there are, but rather listed as a number, as a figure, but there is no specific thinking towards the regions.................................................................................. And here is the role of the state, as we said at the beginning of this parliamentary season. The work must be focused on the place for which this regional employment is offered, otherwise we hear only some numbers, numbers and statistics here. This section, which you have quoted several times, mentions what has been done. And I'm going to tell you this is only under rural aid programmes for young farmers. They are 1393 applications that have been approved, for which you can also make your own conclusions that it is not a big deal. It's the only one. And the other is good talk about stimulating the Chitalishte activities to events, initiatives with children and youth. That's it! So far, so advertised and so well presented employment policy for young people in small towns. And so, as my colleagues shared, I would like to say the other great contradiction. Yes, a key question for young people is how they appreciate their lifestyles - more than 70% - mentioned colleagues. At least don't write this, colleagues, because I don't think it's realistic at all and it kind of sounds funny because a lot of young people every day, I see it, I see it in my area, every day our children, grandchildren, young people leave Bulgaria. Don't write it, it doesn't sound good! The second, to reduce the rate of youth unemployment. It is also very strongly said that every year it decreases. Yeah, it's shrinking, but at the same time 54% of all non-workers and non-learners are not registered with the Bureau of Labour, only 22% are registered. This clearly shows that the official state mediator is not effective, there is no good link between the unemployed and the labour market. Therefore, colleagues, as colleagues have also said, with these specific trends that contradict the real situation for young people in what they live in today, we do not agree and will not support the Youth Report for 2018. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u56	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? We continue with the speeches. I don't see any other speeches. A statement? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Deputy Minister Pavlov! Although colleagues have already entered a campaign, it cannot be denied that the 2018 Youth Report is yet another report that brings the positive trend among young people. The report's idea is precisely a comparison between the activities carried out by the responsible institutions, the statistics of the National Statistical Institute and Eurostat, and the effect of them is the target group, which is monitored through sociological analyses. These are all activities that are carried out locally and nationally. The purpose of the report is to show and analyse the specifics of this target group.. specific problems, socio-economic realities, the lifestyle of young people, as well as their attitudes and values. This makes it possible to distinguish short-term, medium-term and long-term policies and decisions that concern young people and the policies that the state will take on youth issues. And youth policies are policies that aim to help the youth sector and young people and enable young people to be helped and adapted more easily to their surroundings. I'm sure a lot of things can be said about young people. There is never enough time when we talk about them and their realization in our country, but undoubtedly young people are a priority for the government, because they are not only in the field of sport, they are not only in the field of education, they are in each of the surrounding circles, namely the government aims and works to improve the situation in the country every day. This is why income increases, so the adjoining infrastructure is also supported by a youthful one. What we have yet to do is undoubtedly much more work so that we can strengthen development in this sector, but it is important to note that increasing civic activity among young people is also one of the main priorities of the state and state youth policy. I can't help but welcome the last work of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the effort for the institution to be a permanent partner of every youth activity in the country. Thanks to the active dialogue that takes place with the non-governmental sector, numerous trainings and seminars are implemented aimed at raising awareness and supporting the sector. The institutions' projects and programmes have largely managed to build competences and additional qualifications in young people. Each of us knows that in fact the most important communication skills in young people are built exactly in such extracurricular trainings and seminars, which are constantly supported by the Ministry of Youth and Sport through the various programs through which NGOs can apply for young people with them. And including that education is the number one priority for the government, I am convinced that subsequent reports will also carry the positive meaning. The main focus of the statistics, some of them were expressed by colleagues, naturally selective, but everyone who has familiarized themselves with the Report knows that the main accents are as follows: a significant improvement in the state of the labour market of young people; a reduction in youth unemployment to 7.4%, with an average for the country around 4%; a decrease in the share of early leaving the education system, which is related to active reintegration in the educational process. Over one third of the young people are of the opinion that they can be realized careerally in the settlement where they live and the percentage for Sofia is even higher. Young people positively appreciate the environment in which they live, and they really want to work and be realized in the settlement where they are. Last but not least, I would like to point out that young people in Bulgaria are no different from young people in Europe and this age group is facing countless challenges related to education, realization and quality of life. The Young People's Group is one of the most dynamic because of the rapid transition from one role to another, education, work, family. The movement from small towns to large cities is valid throughout Europe and does not even cover young people. Freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights of the European Union and is a normal element which is not only visible to us. The penetration of information and communication technologies, globalisation, as well as the change in dynamics of life have a serious impact on today's generation. Today young people have increased requirements for what is happening around them and especially in the sphere of security, professional realization and quality of life. That is why all of us must put our efforts above the needs of the young generation, the fight against social inequality and social exclusion by creating more opportunities for personal, professional and social development, which is a guarantee of a full life. I am finishing, noting once again that populism and politics have no place when we talk about young people. I hope that BSP colleagues reflect on what is happening and do not succumb to political pressure, because if they were thinking about young people, they would have a mention in their vision, and the truth is that in their vision there is not a single section that concerns young people. Because young people need security, independence and a chance of development. I support the Youth Report and I am convinced that together we can continue to fight the challenges facing the young generation. Thank you. [[Voices from GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Replices, Mr. Gokov. Do you have a second line, Mr. Prodanov? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I accept the 2018 Annual Youth Report with almost as much enthusiasm as I thought for 2016 and 2017, but until before your speech. Now, after your speech, I'm beginning to think that you really believe what you're saying. I'll ask you: what are these sociological studies, sociological analyses? Where did the young people tell you that they live very well in Bulgaria and that is why they remain in Bulgaria? That half of Bulgaria moved out! We, for nearly nine million, stayed... [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Mr. Manev, you're very fond of calling. Come and say something meaningful from the stands. Don't scream!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u60	Do not enter into a conversation with the House, dear Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u61	Can you talk like that without making a remark to Mr. Manev?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u62	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u63	I'll give him one. You're not giving me a chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u64	Well, he's gonna want a personal explanation of that on top?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u65	Go on. [[Replications from the National Representative Manoil Manev.]] Take your seat, dear Mr. Manev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u66	I'm not going to sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u67	Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I agree that institutions work very hard. I'm not denying it. The institutions are working. The authorities and institutions that must implement youth policy really do. However, there is a Bulgarian saying: In this report I did not see the results of this work. If there were results, we'd all be happy. The Bulgarian youth would be happy to walk smiling in the streets and she goes to Terminal 2 and goes to work abroad. You mentioned 7.4% youth unemployment. Are you serious? Are you not aware that this unemployment among young people is because they are not in Bulgaria? They went to work outside. They appreciated the environment in which they lived!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u68	Your time is up! Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u69	Can I finish my sentence because Mr. Manev interrupts me twice?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u70	I didn't interrupt anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u71	In sociology, you say they appreciated the place they lived in and wanted to develop there. Is that why the villages are already depopulated in Bulgaria and are about to depopulate the small towns?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u72	And the extra seconds are over.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u73	And the last thing we're saying is you haven't read our vision, Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u75	There is a full development of youth policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u76	Finish your thought and I'll turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u77	And if you give Mr. Manev... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u78	Don't give me a clue from the stands, please! [[The National Representative Manoil Manev becomes from his place.]] Mr. Manev, sit down! Mr. Radostin Tanev, you said a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I think you forgot to point out several facts, extremely important, which colleagues on the left very easily forget. The first and main thing is that they have obviously forgotten their meetings or have simply not done them, with the business and the need of business for young people and work, and the way they are looking for young people to work there. Secondly, a very slight misses said one sector there, the IT sector, was walking. Yes, but this IT sector makes nearly 3% of gross domestic product and the average age of people working in it is between 25 and 33 years old, colleagues. Should we leave these young people behind? What about their means? I understand you, the youth structure of GERB very much affects your work. Sorry, our average age is 25 years, not 35 like you. Please remind them of these things that are extremely important. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Third line, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova! Following the recommendations of the President of our parliamentary group, I will try to be as tolerant as possible to you after what I have heard from your speech. However, I would like to ask you a few questions, if you could finally answer your backdrop. Do you have any idea how many percent of Bulgarian children are functionally illiterate? Do you have any idea where Bulgaria stands in the number of underage mothers? Do you have any idea where Bulgaria stands in the number of underage students who consume alcohol and drugs? If you answer these questions and the next question that the tendency to increase the urban population in Europe is considered deeply wrong, which you have said is normal, and that the Federal Republic of Germany, which is the leader of Europe, is fighting successfully against this, and other countries like Italy are complaining about this trend and looking for ways to overcome it, then you will answer many questions with this report, which the opposition is questioning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Mr. Mihailov, we do not deny that there is much work left. So in my speech, I said that there is still much work to be done. However, we cannot deny that trends are improving. It is one of the things you said about students who use alcohol and drugs, the Ministry of Youth and Sports has created a special program that is aimed against aggression and to combat these things. These are the steps the government is working on. I believe that this programme, since it exists, has been effective and activities and projects have been implemented throughout the country that affect young people to break away from this harmful environment. Regarding what Mr. Gokov once again, except in his speech, and in the reply to me, said: The Youth Report implements the structure of the Strategy. The report itself means statistics and sociological studies. In fact, these are the data given by the National Statistical Institute and by a survey, which is said to be the establishment of the impact of youth policies on young people in the country. If we don't believe this data, I don't know how you get your real data that actually has nothing to do with reality. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tanev, it's true, you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u84	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u85	A very large part of opposition colleagues experience, how can I say, bitterness that we really work and strive at every moment to support and develop policies that concern young people in every direction of our environment. Because, as we said, yes, it is not only IT, although the IT sector is currently one of the most important sectors in the country, but youth policy and young people are in every sector of our environment and in every sector of Bulgaria's economic development. That's why we're working to raise every single sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Personal explanation? You were mentioned by name. I didn't understand what it did to you, Mr. Gokov. You have the floor, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u87	Mr. Gokov, I'm using the formula of my personal explanation to apologize for interrupting you. I apologize to you because it's not good to react from the spot. Well, if you're listening to shit, how come you're not reacting? When colleague Tanev sits here, colleague Zhelyazkova, young people, real young people and you explain to them what young people need is the least funny. That's why I reacted. When you talk about the need to reinstate the exit visas from Bulgaria, it is insulting to the majority of the Bulgarian population. All that happened in Bulgaria was to be able young people to go and come back whenever and wherever they wanted. The time of the exit visas has passed. So I took the liberty of breaking the rules and reacting from a place for which I apologize again. [[Noise and lines.]] Only it's funny what you're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] With the apology, I hope, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, next statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I start with the facts with which we from the parliamentary group of the DPS started our comments on the 2017 Report, i.e. in the direction of population reduction. As of 31 December 2018, the population of Bulgaria was nearly 50 thousand less than in 2017. Note, fellow Members, that at the end of 2017 our population decreased by just over 51 thousand people, compared with 2016. The figures are similar and are mainly young people who leave Bulgaria, unfortunately. In a population of 7 million people, young people up to 29 years in Bulgaria are just over 1 million people, and the trend is more than alarming, with the population over 65 years is slightly above 21%. Nothing new compared to the 2017 report. The forecast will decrease the number of young people, especially with a sharp impact on age groups between 15 and 19 years of age and 20 to 24 years of age. The exact same finding was recorded in the previous report. What happened for this year from report to report after statistics and forecasts remain the same? The number of people who migrated from villages to cities is greater than the opposite direction: the town of the village. The Danish show that from young people aged between 15 and 29 years of age just over 784 thousand people live in cities and just over 257 thousand people live in the villages. As has started, honourable Members, in the next 2019 report, the last figure will fall below 200,000 young people in the villages, with 70% of all young people surveyed not married, not married. It makes sense because when conscious of uncertainty and mistrust in the public environment, career realization often takes priority over marriage. So let's not wonder why the number of newborns is falling. Young people are afraid to create a family and children for the future of whom they cannot provide security, means and conditions. Another very disturbing finding that scares me. A quarter of young people point out that their means of full nutrition are rather insufficient. What strategy are we talking about? What innovations and strategic goals are we talking about if a quarter of young people in Bulgaria do not have enough money for a full meal? With regard to young people's attitudes about working abroad. Yes, the report points out that the highly educated prefer to stay in Bulgaria. Young people with secondary and lower education are headed abroad, but no matter what their education is, a large number of young people are going abroad. The truth is one thing and it is simple about the fact that there is no work in the settlements or if there is, it is mostly agricultural, heavy and incomeless. The conclusion, according to us, from the DPS parliamentary group, is that the people in the villages do not see perspective, so they leave the villages, as we have seen from the statistics above. For another year, the report found that in terms of the locality, those living in the capital and the district cities see better chances of a good salary at the expense of those living in the small towns. And, yes, it's true, but so far. The truth is that we need a realistic and active strategy for youth in small settlements, in which, apart from findings, there is an action plan, otherwise the villages will still be depopulated by young people. 53% of young people do not work in their specialties, the 2018 Report says, which means that something is limping in our education system and its relationship with the real world. There is a lot of talk and it is written about it, and it turns out that a large number of our young people have acquired a specialty that is not sought in the labour market. Dear colleagues, it is a joy to see that unemployment in Bulgaria in 2018 registered a sustained decline after the indicator dropped from 3.7% in the first quarter to 4.7% at the end of the fourth quarter. Youth unemployment data also show that there is a decrease in people between 15 and 29 years of age to 7.4%. At the same time, non-workers and non-students after secondary education are nearly a third. Here we have to ask ourselves how the state motivates them and how effective is the widely proclaimed programme for unemployed and non-learning young people until 29 years of age, what are the results of its implementation and what are the funds being spent on? Excuse me, fellow Members, but it sounds funny to find the report a positive trend when we can take into account that 45% of these people at the time of the study are looking for work, but they cannot find one. And it follows the conclusion of the Report to which everyone comes: this study clearly shows that the state, as an official mediator between the unemployed and the labour market, proves to be a less effective tool. We in the DPS parliamentary group say that this instrument, unfortunately, is not effective. Overall, we believe that the findings in the 2018 Report are accurate, but unfortunately, the facts found have been years and the trend has not changed. This reflects again and again on the demographic problem, the escape of young people abroad because of low incomes, as well as deepening of problems, especially in small towns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, please extend the time of our parliamentary group. The discussion that has arisen has been quite useful, at least in our opinion, and in the permanent parliamentary Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. I believe that it has benefited because many true things have been said. Mr. Deputy Minister, who sits in the hall, was then. In fact, I remember he was willing to agree with some of the findings, and I even think he agreed. The discussion about small settlements was a major issue at the time, because we were looking at this positive trend, which is reported in the Report, and we believe that this is an oxymoron. This report states itself very clearly and accurately, and in percentage, what is really the actual state of the Bulgarian youth in Bulgaria. We have the right to talk about the Bulgarian youth. I will not mention a name, but here from the stand it was said that we do not have the right, but we do, because we were the people who for two years five times in the plenary tabled a Youth Bill, which was rejected even for consideration, you remember very well, from the plenary or rather from the rulers, so we have the right to speak, because we have drawn up a whole law and we care about it. However, it is not the subject of our discussion now. In percent what the report says is very important, colleagues, look at it. For example: You personally believe or do not think that in your locality you can, I quote to you the report, get a good education? Here is the data from a sociological survey that has been done on the basis of questions to 2500 young people -- 37% say they don't think they can get it. Which of the following applies or does not apply to you and your lifestyle: I am active athlete Here we go again from the report. That percentage is a disaster. I think you'll agree, it's in the report. Another question: "You personally have or do not have some document of professional qualification or document obtained from informal training?" Even from informal training, colleagues. Answer: I don't have such documents... 64%. It's not disturbing, it's also talking about a disaster in this sector. Other: How do you usually or most often spend your free time? This speaks here about the environment in which these young people are located, 86% stand in their environment, but the theater or cinema host only 16%. Here I open a clamp and say that we tried, and together with branch organizations in the sector, you remember, to launch a cultural check that was access to culture for young people. You can see that only 16% said they went to a theater or a movie. That sounds like a disaster to me, too. These 2,500 young people have answered that they have different languages, but there is no answer that states that they do not speak any language and what percentage. It doesn't have a question like that. The question hasn't been asked. I am very interested in what their answer will be and what the percentage will be. A colleague of mine here told me about alcohol and drugs, and there's a table like this. She's very interesting. Which of the following applies or does not apply to you and your way of life?...................................................................................................... to you and your lifestyle?............................................................................................................................................. Here are the percentages a colleague of mine just asked about. It is in the Report and in the response of the plenary, I see that you all agree that this percentage is very, very high. Not to mention drugs here, because I don't think anyone's gonna admit it in a sociological study, but there's one of those, both light drugs and hard drugs and hard alcohol. Cigarettes smoke 48%, that's the answer. A lot of disturbing data that can't help but bother us! Since in this table there was an access to sport, whether young people are actively athletic, as it became clear, do not exercise. Not to mention the extremely disturbing and even disastrous trend in relation to the fact that every Bulgarian child is sick or prone to obesity. And these are the real statistics. Here, this data doesn't come from a sociological survey. Young people in Bulgaria do not have free access to sports or if they do, it is too small. They don't have one! And we said it in the Commission. You know, many of the municipal sports sites are given on concession. The concessionaire in the convenient hours for sport naturally gives them for rent. I'm sorry I didn't take pictures to show you here, but I've seen it with my own eyes for the awkward hours, let's say, from 11:00 p.m. this evening. There is a sign hanging on the sports facility and it says that after 11 p.m. children can play sports. So, which kid's gonna be athletic this time of night, and who are those parents that are gonna let him go? This is a topic on which it is worth debating, to take serious measures proposed by all parliamentary represented forces, to solve this issue, because these are our children, the children of Bulgaria! And here we express concern. There is no populism here, because I believe that the issue is being worked on by the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. I am grateful that everyone takes their responsibilities in this committee very seriously. I call on you very responsibly to sit together and think about the development of a program to follow the Bulgarian youth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-04.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I'll introduce you to the Project for ? RESPONSIBILITY? approving the 2018 Annual Youth Report The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 5, para. 1 of the Youth Act HAS DECIDED Approves the 2018 Annual Youth Report Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: 93 against 32, abstention 3. The motion for a decision has been accepted. I will introduce you to the Parliamentary Control Communication for 5 September 2019, Thursday, at 11:00. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will respond to a question by the MP Anton Kutev. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov and a question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. Due to the absence of the MPs for respectable reasons the answers to a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will not participate. Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate in parliamentary control due to professional engagement and participation in planned events. Due to a pre-planned mission outside the country, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
