ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u1	Hey, guys. Hey, guys. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for April 5, 2019: There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups under art. 53, para. 8. "1." Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer is Daniela Daritkova on 2 April 2019. 2. Draft decision for privatization of parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants "EAD" Sopot. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 March The Commission 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Social Assistance Act. Kornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 24 January 2019; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 6 March 2019; Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 March 2019. 4. Hearing of the Minister of Energy on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the development of the concept of the establishment of the Gas Distribution Centre. Imported by Valentin Nikolov on 29 March 2019. 5. First vote on the bill of recognition, enforcement and sending of judicial acts imposing imprisonment or measures involving imprisonment. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 March 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 4 April 2019 6. First vote on the bill supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer is Svetlana Angelova and group of MPs on 27 March 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 4 April 2019 7. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers are Andon Donchev and a group of MPs on 27 February 2019. Point 3 for Thursday, 4 April 2019 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 22 March 2019. Point 4 for Thursday, 4 April 2019 9. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. A joint draft, drawn up by the Budget and Finance Committee on the basis of the draft laws adopted at the first vote on 27 March 2019 with importers, the Council of Ministers on 22 February 2019; Daniel Kirilov, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Hristian Mitev on 26 February 2019. Point 1 for Friday, 5 April 2019 10. Hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly on support for the agricultural sector and trends in the common agricultural policy during the new programming period. The importer was Desislava Taneva on 29 March 2019. Point 2 for Friday, 5 April 2019 11. Parliamentary control. Colleagues, I ask for a voting regime on the proposal made for this week's programme. They voted 129 MPs: 125, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: A bill amending and supplementing the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importer is Svetlana Naydenova and group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 31 December 2018. Importer is the Council for Electronic Media. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. A bill to amend the Penal Code. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2018. Importer is the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. It has been assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2018. Importer is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria is the importer. It is allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights; the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints; the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Committee on Children, Youth and Sport; the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; the Committee on Education and Science; the Committee on Health; the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; the Committee on Environment and Water; the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft Law on the ratification of the administrative and technical agreement to the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border implementation of financial penalties in relation to infringements of road traffic rules. Importers are the Council of Ministers. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Draft decision to complete the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the territorial sea, the non-military residence in the inland waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the visit of the port of Varna in the period from 15.. 12 April 2019, including the frigate of the composition of the French Navy. The visit of the ship is of a non-military nature. The notification was received on 28 March 2019 with entry No 903 09 15 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. Messages: The National Assembly received: Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 February 21 March 2019 and Protocol No 13 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 25 March 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. In the National Assembly on the basis of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets for 2018 by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Ministry of Economy. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: indexes of producer prices in the industry February 2019, economic conjuncture March 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Veselinov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I would ask you to put to the vote an extension of the term of two bills. It is about the Cadastral Act and the property register, which will be increased to three weeks, as well as the Black Sea Coast Construction Act to be increased to three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u3	Mr. Veselinov, let's vote them in a row. You're welcome to report one first, we vote it first and then the second. Don't let them be in one. Firstly, we are voting on an extension of the deadline for...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u4	...of the Cadastral Act and the property register for three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u5	Please, voting mode. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u6	And the second one is the Black Sea Coast Construction Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u7	Also three weeks old?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u8	Three weeks old, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u9	Please, voting mode. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, adopted Decision No 25-NS of 30 March 2019 by the Central Election Commission on the declaration of Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov as a Member of Parliament from the Fourth Election Region of Veliko Tarnovski. By letter I went in. No НС-02-3 of 29 March 2019 in the CEC was received a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are prematurely suspended the powers of Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov as a MP from the Fourth Election Region of Veliko Tarnovski, erected from the list of the political party GERB in the 44th National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code and in relation to the CEC Decision No 24, the Central Election Commission of 30 March 2019 HAS DECIDED Announcing Stanislav Ivanov Stoyanov with an EGN... "As a Member of Parliament in the 44th National Assembly from the list of the political party GERB from the Fourth Election Region of Veliko Tarnovski. Please invite the Member of the National Assembly to the Chamber. Please, Mr. Stoyanov, take an oath. Repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u10	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u11	Thank you. Colleagues, I will present to your attention another project. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in connection with the solemn extraordinary plenary session held on 16 April 2019 in Veliko Tarnovo, it is necessary to adopt a decision as to when it should begin, the procedure for the registration of the Members of the National Assembly, due to the lack of an electronic registration system, the establishment of a quorum for its opening and the starting time of our regular meeting on Wednesday, 17 April 2019, with a view to the inability to start it in the Rules for the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. For the sake of the foregoing, I propose that the following be adopted: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 48, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in connection with a decision to hold a solemnly extraordinary plenary session of the National Assembly on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution HAS DECIDED 1. The solemn extraordinary plenary session of the National Assembly on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the Constitutional Assembly and the adoption of the Tarnovo Constitution will begin at 11.00 on 16 April 2019 in the town of Veliko Tarnovo, the Museum of Renaissance and the Constitutional Assembly. 2. The registration of Members of the National Assembly for participation in the meeting shall be carried out by signing in attendance books. The establishment of the necessary number of MPs for the opening of the meeting shall be carried out by counting those present by the Secretaries of the National Assembly. The vote at the meeting shall be made by means of a raise of hands. 3. The regular plenary session of the National Assembly on 17 April 2019 in the National Assembly building, here in Sofia, will begin at 1300 Please, voting mode. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: CHANGES IN COMMITMENTS. Mrs President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. I am submitting a draft decision to change the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution, the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Tanya Todorova Petrova as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u12	Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And the second draft of a solution. Decision to complete the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition and management of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Plamen Dulchev Nunev as Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 2. He elected Valentin Ivanov Radev as Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 3. He elected Tanya Todorova Petrova as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please, voting mode. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with the second item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO PRAY THE PRIVIZATION OF COMPANY PARTS OF THE ENGINES OF THE VAZOVSKI MACHINERY VOICE. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2019. We begin with the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report. Here you are, dear Mrs. Saveclieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister of Economy Mrs. Lilia Ivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u14	We're voting admission to the Deputy Minister's room. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister of Economy to the Chamber. Continue, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u15	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism under the Project of a Decision on Privatization of Parts of the Property of Vazovski Machine Building Plants (SAD) -Sopot, No 902-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 27 March 2019 discussed and discussed the draft decision on the privatisation of parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants. The meeting was attended by Petya Alexandrova, Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Alexandrova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed draft decision is to privatize compartments in three generalized positions of VMZ SAD Sopot due to a lack of need for them to implement the company's production and commercial activities. The same shall not be used and additional costs for their maintenance are required. "Vazovski machine-building plants" EAD is included in the so-called ban list under art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and Privatization of Parts of His Property is carried out by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency after a decision has been taken by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. Opinions on the Project for a Decision are received from: Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRB), the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) and the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria (KNSB). The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry takes the view that the documents submitted are not sufficient to assess the appropriateness of the act. The Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria fully supports the proposed Project for a solution and appreciates it as useful for the Bulgarian economy. Independent trade unions in Bulgaria support the Project for a solution because the proposed assets for privatisation are inactive, are not used for years and are not related to the production process and in this regard their maintenance is economically inappropriate. After a vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision on the privatisation of parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants "Sopot," No 902-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Will there be an importer's opinion? Madam Deputy Minister, would you like to speak? No. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u17	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to take account of the reasons for the sale of the separate units. Firstly, you know that this is done through the National Assembly because these enterprises are on the Prohibition List. The idea is that the above-mentioned parts are of no necessity and are also not directly related to the company's commercial and production activities. This is a very correct solution, because if the act of selling these compartments is implemented, the first thing that happens is that a financial resource is being released, which is at the disposal of the state. The other thing that is very important is that in the years these parts, which have no bearing on the enterprise, have been given funds for security and maintenance. In addition, some taxes, fees, which further aggravate the work of the undertaking itself, are likely to be paid. We all know that when a property is not supported, its value falls over the years, and the longer we delay this act, the harder it will be to realise at a lower price, and at the moment, knowing and seeing what the economic situation in the country is, the prices of real estate are at a very good level and perhaps right now is the time to do so and hopefully it will happen. The other thing is, if this deal is carried out, the potential investor in question who will acquire the property has some idea, it will still develop some business, which means revenue. What does revenue mean? The state's contributions mean jobs, additional employment as well as taxes and labour. This may be the place to mention a fact from years ago. I was a district manager in the period 2009 - 2013 in Shumen. I have to tell you that three times I sent letters to the finance minister with a list of properties with no need, where only for Shumen then were perhaps between 60 and 70 in number and at market prices, which we know were much lower after 2008, according to my estimate were worth about 10 million. lv. I must tell you that nothing has been realized so far. This is also because there was an act from February 2010, under which the district governors could already sell properties worth up to 10,000. BGN, and before that it was up to 500 thousand. lv. and, as a result, apparently, the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Agency did not have the capacity to sell that much property. Specifically, this act, which is being carried out at the moment, is very important and correct, and hopefully a buyer of these compartments is found accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u18	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u19	Madam President, colleagues, this morning I was in a bad mood, hard to come to work, but my colleague cheered me up. Good reason for selling 24 decares of land, a sum of plots with a total area of 1024 decares around the wine cellar. Good reason not to have how the Vazov machine-building plants, one of the founders of the Bulgarian economy, to pay their taxes and fees to the Vazov machine-building plants, and almost this tax to the Vazov machine-building plants. You've made me happy, mate. You've pleased me for the state's thought to provide a playground of over 1,000 decares to expand its business. Yes, there is nothing wrong with expanding the business in Bulgaria, but not this way. Let's try this procedure to put it on a clear auction without the match being negotiated in advance, as it is at this point in the case of an investor's intention before the Council of Ministers, because this match is currently played and there is no point here, from the stands, to convince us how important the privatisation of land with a decline in necessity was. However, terrains with a low need in Shumen and terrain with a low need in Starosel, where there is a mineral water of 3.5 km in the area of this site, a water supply of over 8 l per second hot mineral water near this site, there is no need to convince us how important privatisation is. Thank you. I hope that GERB will see an adequate attitude in the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. Mrs. Saveklieva, please read the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u21	? RESPONSIBILITY? for privatization of parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Privatization of the following parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants "EAD" - Sopot: 1. Land property with identifier 35523.28.302, with area by cadastral map 6852 sq. m, sustainable use: agricultural, sustainable use: for another type of production, warehouse, previous plan number 10030200, located in Kaloyanovo village, p.k. 4173 Street. "Industrial Zone" "Kalloyanovo" Station, Kaloyanovo Municipality, Plovdiv District, Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers, approved by Order No RD 18-16-1 of 3 November 2006 of the Head of the Geodesy Office, Cartography and Cadastre Office of Plovdiv, in the case of neighbours: 35523.28.301, 35523.28.300, 35523.28.308 including the following buildings according to Sketch No 15-70971 of 15 February 2016: a) Building 35523.28.302.1, built area 299 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: industrial building; b) building 35523.28.302.2, built area 250 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: industrial building; c) building 35523.28.302.3, built area 313 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: warehouse, warehouse; d) Building 35523.28.302.4, built area 791 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: industrial building; e) building 35523.28.302.5, built area 169 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: industrial building; f) Building 35523.28.302.6, built area 115 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: industrial building; g) building 35523.28.302.7, built area 10 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: industrial building; h) building 35523.28.302.8, built area 10 sq. m, number of floors 1, purpose: warehouse, warehouse. 2. House-monument cabin of Chevira (valid base of the village of Starosel) consisting of: a) building No 11 - chalet "Chevira", massive three-storey building with an area of 405 sq. m and the built-up area 1215 sq. m; b) building No 12 - dining room at the chalet "Chevira". massive one-storey building with an area of 285 sq. m; c) building No 13. massive one-storey building with an area of 41 sq. m, all buildings located in the northern part of land estate No 000003 in the village of Starosel ECATTE 69016, Hisarya municipality, Plovdiv district, all with an area of 1 101 389 sq. m, in the area of Gyurkovitsa, with a way of permanent use: mountain pasture, category of land under non-popular conditions 3. Land estate with identifier 68080.501.704, Cadastral map and cadastral registers approved by Order No RD-18-8 of 11 March 2011 of the Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency, with address. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 4330 Street. "Ivan Vazov" No 67, with an area of 1062 sq. m, with a permanent purpose in the territory of m, number of floors 3, destination: hotel.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. This was the text of the draft decision to be voted on. I put to the vote a draft decision to privatize parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants "Sopot," No 902-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2019. Vote 77 MPs: 63, against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote procedure, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u23	Madam President, honourable Members! As some of our colleagues have failed to vote, I ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u24	It's a re-voting procedure. I put to the vote again a draft decision on the privatisation of parts of the property of Vazovski machine-building plants "EAD" - Sopot, No 902-03-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 March 2019. Vote 91 Members of Parliament: for "73," against "3," abstentions "15." The proposal and the decision have been adopted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF LAW PRODUCES FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL HELP LAW. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to present the three reports on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u25	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-2, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 24 January 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 27 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-2, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Ms. Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Mrs. Victoria Tahova Deputy Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. The bill was not presented by the importer due to its absence in the Chamber. The main motive for the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Assistance Act is related to one of the most important and acute problems that have a negative effect on the development of Roma and which in turn leads and causes further problems related to their education, or rather the unwillingness of them to educate themselves. The educational system as a result of inadequate administrative measures fails to cover the Roma community completely, even less to give them the necessary level of literacy, knowledge and skills. Progress is nothing in the efforts to study Bulgarian by Roma children, for which it is not a mother. Solving this problem is key to achieving higher literacy, education and qualification for Roma integration. The change in the policy of providing social and family assistance, which currently de facto stimulates the parents' unassignedness to their children's education. The current legislation (the Children's Family Aid Act) provides for the suspension of child support if it does not go to school. The extension of this measure towards binding all social benefits with regular attendance of compulsory pre-school and school education and suspension of aid to families (parents) whose children do not attend school may be in support of solving the problem. It is proposed in the Social Assistance Act to make changes to art. 2, para. 4 to make sure that all social benefits are made and that families and parents receive them only if their children regularly attend preparatory groups for compulsory pre-school education or school, unless this is impossible due to their health status. The adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act does not imply the need for additional funds. A preliminary impact assessment form is attached to the Bill. Opinions were received from the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Agency for Social Assistance. The position that the institutions reflect is as follows: the right to social support is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which states that citizens have the right to social security and social support. Deprivation of a circle of persons (children and families) from social aid would be a violation of the fundamental basis for the right to social assistance, namely the individual need for assistance. People in need of support whose social benefits would be suspended will also lose another right related to the status of recipients of social aid, namely the right to health insurance. At the same time, it is important to note that no analogy should be made between the two types of support. The aim of providing family assistance to children is to help families to raise children in a family environment, and the aim of social assistance is to ensure that the basic vital needs of those who need support are met. We must very carefully approach the argument that disabling the family from social benefits under the Family Aid Act, if children do not attend regular school, will result in their discipline. On the contrary, lack of funds can be another argument to justify the absence and suspension of children from school. The common political and institutional responsibility is to develop and implement adequate mechanisms for the inclusion of all children in the educational system, with a focus on coordinating the actions of all institutions and the non-governmental sector to promote school attendance and the acquisition of professional competences, with a view to the future successful realization of the labour market and integration in society, and attention should not only be focused on developing sanctions measures for needy persons and families. The debate was attended by the MPs Dr. Hassan Ademov, Dr. Kalin Popovski and Mr. Pavel Shopov. After the discussion of the Bill was concluded, a vote was held. With results: no votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Offers the National Assembly not to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-2, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs. Next bill. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-13 submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 6 March 2019. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 27 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-13, submitted by Iskren Vassilev and a group of MPs submitted on 6 March 2019. In the meeting took part: Mr. Lazar Lazarov Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Ms. Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Mrs. Victoria Tahova Deputy Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. The bill was presented by the MP Mr. Alexander Siddy. The main motive for the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Assistance Act is that the problem with the long-term unemployed, who rely and live only on social aid and do not work. These individuals unfairly burden the social system by refusing to increase their education and qualifications. With this behavior, they are damaging those in extreme need of social care and assistance, the budget and taxpayers. The proposed changes to the Social Assistance Act will strengthen control over the measures to increase education and acquire employment competences and qualifications, and thus reduce the sense of social inequality in society. A preliminary impact assessment form is attached to the Bill. For the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, opinions have been received from the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Social Assistance Agency, the Employment Agency and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The CIT does not support the proposed amendments to the Law on the grounds that it has been changed 5 times only in 2018 and is in principle opposed to this intensity of changes in legislation, which shows that regulations have not been sufficiently justified and the short time of their action does not allow the effect of their application to be verified. The CRIB expresses its disconcert with the legal sense of some of the proposed provisions, such as § 4 of the Bill: who, by what means and by what criteria will assess the public events and their value and how they relate to social benefits. All other opinions support the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Social Assistance Act with certain remarks. The debate was attended by the MPs Dr. Hassan Ademov, Dr. Kalin Popovski, Mr. Pavel Shopov. Upon completion of the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held. With results: 12 votes................................................................................................................................ and 2 votes........................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-13, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs. Next bill. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 March 2019. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 27 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 March 2019. In the meeting took part: Mr. Lazar Lazarov Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Ms. Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister of Education and Science; Mrs. Victoria Tahova Deputy Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. The bill was presented by the MP Ms. Svetlana Angelova. The main motive for the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Assistance Act is the overcoming of the problem of covering and the premature leaving of the educational system of children and students. This requires an integrated policy, the use of various tools and the commitment of all departments and institutions. It is proposed that the Social Assistance Act should include provisions to regulate that monthly aid currently paid on the basis of art. 9 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Social Assistance Act (PSDP), as well as monthly targeted aid for renting of municipal dwellings under art. 14 of the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act will be granted after regular visits to the child in a group for compulsory pre-school education or at school. The amendments to the Social Assistance Act also offer amendments to the Family Aid Act for children aiming at better commitment of monthly child care aid until graduation of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age and one-off assistance for students enrolled in the first grade with regular school visits. This Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Assistance Act will achieve regulation in two main directions. On the one hand, the process of inclusion and retention in the educational system of children and students at compulsory pre-school and school age will be supported. On the other hand, more fair and targeted spending of resources for social assistance will be achieved by linking the provision of social assistance to the fulfilment of a particular constitutional obligation. The bill is a complex approach, as the amendments to the Social Assistance Act offer amendments to the Family Aid Act for children, which provides for the one-off aid to cover part of the costs at the beginning of the school year to be granted to two equal parts at the beginning of each period of study in order to ensure the attendance of the child or student throughout the school year. The maximum number of eligible absences of children and students shall be clarified without due cause after the presence of which the one-off aid to cover part of the costs at the beginning of the school year and the monthly support for a child shall be terminated. The adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act does not imply the need for additional funds. The proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act are not related to the fulfilment of obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria for the introduction into the national law of European Union law. A preliminary impact assessment form is attached to the Bill. Opinions have been received from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Social Assistance Agency and the Ministry of Education and Science, which support the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Assistance Act. The debate was attended by the MPs Dr. Hassan Ademov, Dr. Kalin Popovski, Mr. Pavel Shopov. Upon completion of the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held. With results: 12 votes................................................................................................................................ and 2 votes........................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amendment to the Social Assistance Act No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u26	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. The Commission's reports on children, youth and sport follow. Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u27	Thank you. On 27 March 2019 the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 27 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-2, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 24 January 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Tonislava Sotirova, Head of Department at the Department of Social Inclusion, Mrs. Inna Veder, Deputy Director General of the General Directorate of Social Assistance and Social Assistance at the Social Assistance Agency, Mrs. Eleonora Lilova, Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection and Mrs. Teodora Ivanova. The President of the Commission Mr. Slavcho Atanasov expressed his disappointment that the importer or his representative was not present at the second meeting in a row when examining the bill in the Chamber. Under the Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, the Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Agency for Social Assistance. During the meeting the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in the face of Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova, expressed a negative opinion on the proposed bill. According to Ms. Rusinova, the proposed changes in no way contribute to the higher attendance of children at school. The adoption of a provision to stop the payment of all types of social benefits if the child does not attend school is in breach of § 13, Part I of the European Social Charter. Deprivation of a circle of persons (children and families) from social aid is also a violation of the fundamental basis for the right to social assistance, namely the individual need for assistance. People in need of support whose social benefits would be suspended will also lose the right of recipients of social aid, namely the right to health insurance. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov shared his principled support for the purpose the importer sets himself, but disagreed with the proposed amendments to the bill, which in this way do not offer a solution to the problems. Believes that the suspension of funds may be another argument to justify the absence and suspension of children from school; As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote carried out with a result: without the amendment and supplement of the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-2, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 24 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u28	Continue with the other report on the next bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u29	Yes, thank you. On 27 March 2019 the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 27 March 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 March 2019. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Tonislava Sotirova, Head of Department at the Department of Social Inclusion, Mrs. Inna Veder, Deputy Director General of the General Directorate of Social Assistance and Social Assistance at the Social Assistance Agency, Mrs. Eleonora Lilova, Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection and Mrs. Teodora Ivanova. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by MP Galya Zaharieva, who pointed out that the proposed changes are related to the stricter commitment of social and family assistance to families with regular school visits by their children. The aim of the Bill is to help overcome the problem of covering and premature leaving the educational system of children and students. With this proposed legal delegation, the commitment of these aids to the regular visit of the children and students of groups for compulsory pre-school education or school is achieved regulatory synchronization between the Law and the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Assistance. New target groups of parents raising children at compulsory pre-school and school age are introduced, while in determining the degree of vulnerability and access to monthly assistance the implementation of their parental commitment to the inclusion of children in the educational system and regular visits to schools and kindergartens will be taken into account. The changes aim at better commitment of monthly support for raising a child until the end of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age, and one-off assistance for students enrolled in the first grade with regular attendance by children and students of compulsory pre-school or school groups. One-off aid to cover part of the costs at the beginning of the school year in the first grade is intended to be granted in two equal parts at the beginning of each period of study. The maximum number of eligible absences of children and students shall be clarified without due cause after the presence of which the one-off aid to cover part of the expenditure at the beginning of the school year and the monthly support for a child shall be terminated. The current project will achieve regulation in two main directions. On the one hand, the process of inclusion and retention in the educational system of children and students in compulsory pre-school and school age will be supported. On the other hand, more fair and targeted spending of resources for social assistance will be achieved by linking the provision of social assistance with the implementation of the constitutional obligation for compulsory education. Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova stressed the good interaction between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Education and Science, thanks to which more than 41,000 children have been returned to the classrooms so far. The Chairman of the State Agency "Child Protection" supported the proposed amendments and additions, as well as the adoption of a mechanism for discipline and motivation of parents in relation to ensuring their children's presence in the educational process. Takes note that the share of children who are not enrolled in educational institutions, as well as the share of those who are dropping out of the educational system in Bulgaria remains one of the highest within the European Union. Supports the possibility to legally restrict the receipt of social benefits, as well as the imposition of financial fines on parents who fail to fulfil their constitutional obligations by restricting their children to attend school; Suggests the amount of the fine to be paid to the school's budget by the parents. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Slavcho Atanasov expressed his full support on the proposed bill. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 10-vote vote held, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. We continue with the reports of the Committee on Education and Science. You're welcome to present the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u31	Madam President, honourable Members, I offer your attention ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law for social assistance, No 954-01-2, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 24 January 2019. The meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of State, Mr. Yordanka Petrova, Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister, Mr. Lyudmil Dimitrov, Head of State at the Directorate of State for Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Assistance, Mr. Tonislava Sotirova, Head of Department at the Directorate of Social Inclusion, Mr. Inna Veder, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Social Assistance at the Social Assistance Agency, representatives of employers', NGOs and media. In the absence of importers, the bill was not presented to the MPs. The discussion was attended by the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova. Minister Valchev expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science which does not support the bill. The Law aims to tighten the mechanism against parents who do not ensure the presence of their children in kindergarten and school. Extreme measures are proposed, attention is drawn to the problem, but no comprehensive and balanced approach is proposed. Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Ministry does not support the Bill, it is contrary to the principles of human rights. Binding children's presence in educational institutions to social benefits, especially energy, is not relevant and is not appropriate. Following the vote held with results: no...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Maleshkova. Continue with the other report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u33	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 19 March 2019. The meeting was attended by: Minister of Education and Science, Yordanka Petrova, Minister of State, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister, Lyudmil Dimitrov, Head of State at the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Assistance, Tonislava Sotirova, Head of Department at the Directorate of Social Inclusion and Media. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Milena Damyanova. The proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act and the Family Aid Act for Children are part of the management majority programme. The main objective is to guarantee the right to education of the child. Under a Constitution, every child has the right to education. The family and the state have the obligation to guarantee that right. Social benefits shall be linked to compulsory visits to kindergarten from 5- and 6-year-old children and to school by the age of 16, as required by the Constitution. The conditions for receiving social benefits also apply to those who care for children under the Child Protection Act. In three days' absences in the child's month or five outstanding absences of the student for disrespectful reasons, social benefits are suspended for one year. The bill provides a definition of disrespectful reasons. The suspended social benefits go to the kindergarten or school, with the amendment being made proposing that these funds can be used to ensure equal access to education of the child concerned. The funds are not lost, but they go to the child through kindergarten or school. At the discretion of the institution, both school supplies and clothes, shoes, if these are the needs of the child can be purchased with them. It is proposed that the aid for the first class be paid in two equal parts at the beginning of the first and second period of study. The goal is to keep students in school. This bill is not on sanctions and bans, it aims to motivate responsible parenting those for whom education is not a value. Minister Krasimir Valchev presented the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science. The right to education of children is the duty of parents. Information has been gathered from 11 000 employees working in the teams under the Joint Working Mechanism of the institutions for covering and including in the educational system of children and students at compulsory pre-school and school age. Information shows that much of the parents are at the root of not having children in kindergarten and school. Minister Valchev stressed that the biggest challenge facing the educational system is how to ensure the presence of children. Social benefits for children instead of irresponsible parents will reach through the school and kindergarten to the children themselves. In practice, this would even lead to an increase in the funds the state spends on the child, because the money will serve only him and only him. It cannot continue the practice so far, because it will turn out that the aid is a right and the education of the child is not. Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Ministry fully supports the Bill, it is in line with measures to support vulnerable groups and has a disciplined character. The following discussion was attended by the MPs: Milena Damyanova, Milen Mihov, Errol Mehmed, Galya Zaharieva, Elena Aksieva, Stanislav Stanilov, Tanya Petrova. MP Milen Mihov expressed strong support for the proposed bill. Responsible parenting is the duty of every Bulgarian citizen. The right to education is the right to happiness. The people's representative Elena Aksieva expressed his strong support, the right to education of children is the right to a better life. People's representative Errol Mehmed said that the measures should not be extremely sanctioning, but rather supportive. Representatives of employers and NGOs took part in the discussion. Mr. Diyan Stamatov expressed the position of the most numerous employers' organization in the system of the people's education....................................... Mr. Vasil Nikolov expressed his strong support for the Bill and noted the key role of mediators in the process of inclusion of children. Mrs. Tsveta Brestnitka presented the opinion of the National Network for Children. The organisation does not support the submitted bill. According to its members, it is not based on an analysis of the reasons for non-visiting and dropping out of the education system, sanctions are disproportionate to infringements. National Representative Stanislav Stanilov expressed support for the Bill and disagreed with the opinion of the National Network for Children, which has criticism, but there are no proposals for dealing with the problems. National Representative Galya Zaharieva stressed that, as never before, there has been such active work towards implementing all inclusive measures. The ultimate goal is for all children to be in school. People's representative Tanya Petrova raised a rhetorical question: is the state responsible for social assistance for irresponsible parents relative to the funds allocated to children who are deeply involved in knowledge? The National Representative Milena Damyanova noted that this bill applies to all for whom education is not a value. For anyone who does not comply with the rules and has not made any effort and, more importantly,.. does not want to make an effort to do so, the final measure is therefore sanctions. It is the responsibility of all of us to have sensitivity to this problem and to help teams of specialists from all institutions. Teachers are doing social work now, but with the proposed measures they will have support. If the inclusive and supportive work under the Preschool and School Education Act is done in a timely manner, sanctions will not be applied. After the vote with results: the National Assembly proposes to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 19 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Maleshkova. Are there any importers of bills wishing to submit the opinion of an importer? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed amendments to the Social Assistance Act and the Family Aid Act for children are related to a stricter commitment to receiving family aid for children with regular school visits to children. The Social Assistance Act proposes to include provisions to regulate that monthly aid and monthly assigned aid for renting a municipal dwelling will be granted after assessment of a regular visit of the child to the preparatory groups for compulsory pre-school education and school. Although the granting of monthly aid has been linked to regular school visits, this has been done in the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act. So far, the accumulated five or more school absences have been reason to reduce the amount of the differentiated minimum child's income, which, under equal conditions, leads to a reduction in the amount of family aid received and, accordingly, a reduction in the entry limit for access to assistance. The current change in the Social Assistance Act will regulate this condition at the level of the law, which provides guarantees of consistency in the long term of the continued policy in this direction. Changes are proposed in the Law on Family Aid for Children, which aims to better bind monthly support for raising a child until the end of secondary education, but not more than 20 years of age, namely when during one school year absences are allowed more than three days from a child who attends a group for compulsory pre-school education and five hours from a student who has no respectable reasons. Binding social support and the obligation to regularly participate children in the learning process gives a clear signal of the priority of solving the problem of excluding children from the education system and, on the other hand, guarantees long-term consistency of the policy. Education is a strategic national priority for the government. One of the main objectives is to pursue a decisive policy aimed at eliminating illiteracy through compulsory education guaranteed by the power of all state instruments and institutions. Early dropping out of the education system is a serious problem that hinders economic and social development, has a negative impact on children in the long term. When they grow up and need to get involved in the labour market, they do not have the necessary education and qualifications. Very hard to hire by employers. Given the state-of-the-art fast-growing, dynamic labour market, these children are automatically becoming uncompetitive in the labour market and dropping out of employment. In addition, they often become a contingent on social assistance. Next, another important change that we propose in the Family Aids Act for children is that the one-time grant to first-graders can be granted twice, not as it has been once, at the beginning of the school year, but already paid twice. In the case of granting the aid, 50%, the remaining 50% at the beginning of the second period of study. This will ensure attendance of the child or student throughout the school year. This bill is another step of the political party GERB towards overcoming the problem of covering and premature leaving the educational system of children and students. We believe that with the proposed changes we will achieve regulation in two main directions: in the process of including and detaining children in the educational system and, secondly, in the fair, efficient and efficient spending of resources for social assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u36	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Opinion on the other bill. Here you are, you have the floor for an importer's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! In society, there has long been a sense of injustice between workers, on the one hand, and those groups of people who remained unlisted in the labour market, on the other hand. The job of unemployed, as well as a single multi-child mother, is draining the social system and is a huge burden on taxpayers. Through a series of legislative measures, part of which is this bill, in recent years the legislator has tried to find a balance between the two groups and to encourage people to rely less on social payments and more on their own income from work, which should be higher than social payments. One of the major problems among society's unlisted vulnerable groups is the lack of sufficient level of education and employment qualification. Despite many programs for social and labour integration, those who benefit from them usually do not make significant progress, because the Law does not limit the possibility of how many times you can take advantage of the programmes and does not determine sufficient control over the results achieved. With the proposed changes, we believe that this is what we will achieve: a necessary level of education and acquisition and/or an increase in employment qualification. This is also the meaning of the proposed changes in art. 2 and Art. 12b. There is no way to make significant progress if these programmes are not subject to stricter control and the feeling of infinity of the aid resources used is not taken away, which some of the beneficiaries of the programmes have. This is why in art. Art. 12 and Art. 14 We also create control over the implementation and the possibility of reducing the amount of aid or, accordingly, its suspension if the person does not show interest in raising his education or qualification. Through these measures, we will reduce the leakage of public resources, the expenditure of which does not lead to the cessation of the occupation of the unemployed. With the proposed changes we will strengthen control over the measures to increase education and acquire labour competences and qualifications and thus reduce the sense of social inequality in society, as well as the sense of injustice among Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u38	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. There will be no opinion on the third bill. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! In society, logic is such that periods pass and accumulates as a result of mistakes resulting from lutenia. We have gone through such delusions, many mistakes have been made in view of mantras for human rights, for not touching certain communities, for failing to achieve any coercion that would lead to public benefit and public interest. For several years, we've been figuring out how to solve problems like this. The important thing is that it comes to the public and political will to solve these problems. And here's three bills all in one direction, all in one relationship. All three draft laws aim at the same goal: the integration of certain vulnerable groups of the population, which cannot be more successful than that of children from these vulnerable groups to attend school and actually so to integrate. There's no more successful integration than this! All three bills have similar, decent measures and lead to this goal. It is strange to me and I am surprised why the Parliamentary Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy has not been adopted and the three draft laws have not been passed, which are equally valuable to be voted on at first reading and put into consideration by the two readings to make a compilation between them and to extract the most valuable and most positive. All three bills will come close to the General Bill, which will be reduced between the two readings and I think this will give us the best second reading bill that will be provided to us in plenary. I therefore call on you to support all three bills, even though the BSP colleagues are gone. There are also many valuable grains that should not be overlooked and should not be left unattended. Let's go to a second reading, between the two readings we work in the parliamentary committees and we vote on all three bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u40	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mrs. Angelova, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, obviously you were not at a meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. There is no way we can support the BSP Bill not because they are in opposition, not because they are not there, but their bill reads as follows: if children do not attend a regular school and compulsory pre-school training, parents are deprived of all kinds of social benefits in the Social Assistance Act. Deprived of all kinds of social benefits unemployed persons who are on social assistance, they automatically drop out of health insurance. These unemployed persons who receive social benefits under art. 9, health care is provided by the state. If we deprive them of welfare, they're all out of health insurance. Separately, this is a violation of the European Social Charter, which is an international document of the Council of Europe, to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. Most importantly, however, we deprive all those people who are on social assistance under art. Nine from health insurance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u43	Yes, Mrs. Angelova, the BSP bill is the most radical of the three, but this does not prevent it from being considered between the two readings. How contrary to the European Charter, I do not know, but with sound Bulgarian morality, with what is socially necessary and what needs to be done is not in such a drastic contradiction. The question is between the two readings to perceive this idea and to consider it. What will be decided if BSP's proposals will be mitigated, it is a matter of debate and then of consideration in plenary. Let's not reject the a priori ideas of BSP colleagues, too, they deserve to be dealt with, to have a public debate about them. I have always been a supporter in plenary not to predestinate, not to vow, and not to be guided by whether our action is unconstitutional or not. Always as parliamentarians we judge, we express our will to the National Assembly, and there is another one who will assess the unconstitutionalness of one of our acts, this is the Constitutional Court. We should never prejudge how the Constitutional Court would rule in this Chamber, much less consider whether our act is in line with any of our international commitments. These are things of a different order, of a different nature. We are here to do our job, to meet the expectations of the Bulgarian citizens who have sent us here for this, then we will see what will be what.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u44	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at three bills for amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, and one of them also proposes amendments to the Family Aid Act for children. I am in a hurry to point out that a large part of it, so that I do not say all the texts are part of the Bulgarian legislation in force.................. from the Social Assistance Act, from the Family Aid Act for Children, from the Employment Promotion Act, and the Rules for the Implementation of the Three Laws. There is not a single text of the proposals in the three bills which is not part of the Bulgarian legislation in one form or another. Next, I would like to say that, in general, all three amending and supplemental bills want to tie the receipt of social benefits with regular visits to compulsory pre-school forms for children, school for students, with community service and the inclusion in measures and programmes for employment of unemployed persons entitled to social assistance. This is in general terms the volume of the proposals that are proposed. In our view, two months before the elections, we are talking about an election smoke or election trick, as a former minister As the elections approach, ladies and gentlemen, competition in the field of populism and nationalism becomes increasingly fierce. Next, I would like to say that part of the proposals is about a clearly stated attempt to violate the Constitution. As in the Election Code, this is where the withdrawal of monthly social benefits is proposed. See, colleagues, in art. 51 of the Constitution is said that all Bulgarian citizens have the right to social security and social support. Social assistance is a basic category in the social assistance system, it is unconditional in the Constitution, it is not bound by any of the other components. In the next article. 52 It is said that all Bulgarian citizens have the right to health insurance in order and manner defined in law, while for support there is no such text in the Constitution. Next, next article. 53 says that education in Bulgaria is mandatory for children until the age of 16. A bill cannot seek to overwhelm one of the constitutional principles at the expense of another. Constitutional texts have been applied and adopted in such a way as to suggest upgrade of one over the other. Constitutional texts are adopted so that they can ultimately be complementary and not exclude one or the other from the principles. This is extremely important so that we can understand the essence of the proposed changes. It was not a coincidence that a short time ago it was said that it was also a violation of the European Social Charter. The version was ratified by the Bulgarian Parliament in 2000. The Social Commission of the Council of Europe ruled several years ago...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let's see the difference between the two types of support. It is extremely important to be able to perceive what is being proposed. When we talk about social assistance, it is about meeting basic and basic, vital needs of man, when he, with the help of his income, of his property, can't cope with his loved ones, that is the philosophy of support, while the purpose of the Family Aid Act for children is completely different. This goal is related to keeping children in the family, raising children in a family environment. These are the objectives of monthly aid under the Children's Family Aid Act. I would also like to say a few words about the financial effects. It says here it has nothing to do with anything. Yeah, it has nothing to do with it, but look at the financial resources we're fixing ourselves on. When we talk about monthly support under the Social Assistance Act, in 2019, the State Budget Act approved 31 800 people to be entitled to monthly aid under the Social Assistance Act. The financial effect is 36 million. When we talk about the one-time support for students at the beginning of the school year, it is about 46,000 children, with the financial effect being just over 10 million. And when we talk about targeted rent payments, when living in municipal housing, it's 265 people, and the financial effect is 100 thousand. lv. The amount on which we are currently fixed, apart from family support for children, is 46 million. $100,000. in the case of a budget of 1 billion. 100 million. to the Agency for Social Assistance. Are these the people who drained the social system?! Forty-six million and a hundred thousand on a budget of one billion and a hundred! Take a look at these numbers, they are part of the Bulgarian legislation. Next. Of course, it is very important to discuss which arguments to dominate, which measures and instruments to be dominant, whether to support measures dominant or sanctioning mechanisms. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have always stated that for us priority and value it is for all children of the earliest childhood to be covered in compulsory forms of pre-school education, students to be covered compulsory at school so that they can then be competitive in the labour market. This is a value shared throughout the years by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We are about equal rights being equal obligations. No one is saying that anyone should have the advantage of using rights, so we support supporting measures. The result is precisely the support measures because these 1,100 teams with nearly 12 thousand participants from the various institutions have made it possible for 40,000 children to return to the education system. Now we have to keep them there somehow. Should we talk about sanctioning measures? There are sanctioning measures also in the current legislation. Here are some of them: - Art. 12b of the Social Assistance Act: The persons who refused participation in employment programmes shall be deprived of monthly aid for a period of one year. - Art. 14 of the Social Assistance Act: The persons who have been given ill-reserved social benefits shall be deprived of them until the amounts due are recovered, but for a period not exceeding two years. - Art. 12 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Social Assistance Act: "In case of refusal of public service, monthly aid shall be suspended for two months, monthly aid shall be suspended for a period of two years. Here are the sanctioning measures that have led to what we are talking about right now. We therefore believe that the dominant should be the supportive, encouraging measures, because they are, in our view, leading to the results we expect. A few words on the proposed bills. According to the bill submitted by the BSP. Colleagues propose a radical measure to stop all social benefits if children do not attend school regularly, without being clear what a regular one means. Next, unfortunately, they do not distinguish between types of social benefits. Social benefits are single, targeted and monthly. Target aid is for example in case of accidental needs arise. For example, in the flood in Mysia, if children do not go to school, does it mean that residents who need this support should not receive it? In the incident in Hitrino, if there is such a case, does that mean that people should not receive this one-time help if they meet all the characteristics? These are absurd proposals for us, and we therefore strongly do not support this project. What is more, it is said that this law is how the motives begin. The reason is against the Roma population, against the gypsy population, let's face it. If any of the Gypsy brothers bothered to read this project, I am convinced that none of them will ever reach for the red ballot. Next, under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Assistance, submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs of the "United Patriarchs." Monthly social benefits shall be linked to community service, participation in programmes for literacy and improvement of qualification or compliance with impact and upbringing measures. Much of these texts are in the current legislation. How are we going to issue the question of egramming the Agency for Social Assistance, which is entirely in the priorities of the Ministry of Education and Science? True, the big problem is that a quarter of the unemployed with the right to social assistance, or the so-called long-term unemployed, the other group, have an education lower than primary or missing education, suggesting literacy. However, this cannot make it the Social Assistance Agency, as is written in the text of the United Patriarchs. Next, measures of impact and upbringing. Can anyone tell me what these measures are? Impact and education in educational camps, in teaching schools or where, how? What are these measures? They're not defined. Next, there is no such concept in the Bulgarian legislation. There are long-term unemployed with registration over 12 months in one year. There is no such term. They say: permanent unemployed persons are evaluated annually, annual tasks are set to achieve certain goals, assessment is made, two consecutive negative assessments receive 50% of monthly aid. I would like to point out that, as of May 2018, there has been an active mechanism called the Employment Integration Agreement. On the basis of this agreement, on the basis of a National Framework Agreement between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria for the integration of long-term unemployed in the labour market there is an agreement concluded and this agreement is implemented. What do we want more from the Social Assistance Agency? Who are these people? Out of 170 and a few thousand unemployed, registered at the employment desks, at the end of January 19 670 are those who receive monthly social benefits. We must not confuse them with unemployment benefits, which are insurance payments! It is very important that we understand this.. there is a huge difference between monthly aid under the Social Assistance Act and unemployment benefits under the Social Security Code! 19,000 are those who drain the social system, according to colleagues from the United Patriarchs. See, at the beginning of this year 1,900 of them are sanctioned for failing to comply with the measures provided for in the Law. So the sanctioning mechanism is working now. There is no point in proposing new sanctioning measures that will not result in any result. Next, on the last draft of the law of colleagues from GERB, with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It is said that receiving monthly social benefits is bound by community service from unemployed at work age. It is said that receiving monthly social benefits is linked to regular visits to kindergarten and school. The texts that are also available in the legislation in force.. depending on whether they are in the Law or in the Rules of Application. However, what is offered in the Family Aids Act for Children when a child who attends a compulsory form of education is absent three days in one month, while a student has five outstanding absences, instead of the three months in a row and six months in a year, it is about tightening up the regime, stopping monthly benefits, family aid for children for one year. This is a aggravating mechanism, which, according to importers, will lead to detention of children at school, to be able to attend different forms of education. The next thing that is offered is the aid for 46,000 originals, which is about 10 million, to be divided into two, hoping the first-graders will be detained in the education system. I am not convinced that these 250 BGN divided into two are the instrument that will keep children in the system of education. If a teacher in the education system sends a SMS to the child's parents or goes, as these teams did, and explained to the parents that education is a value that without education you cannot realize yourself on the labour market, it is a better measure than cutting monthly benefits and sending them to receive social benefits in the countries of the European Union. This is what the measures we are proposing now are doing and we have been proposing so far. We don't want you to get what we're saying vicariously. We want to state very clearly, and the public discussion before the adoption of these laws has shown that there are different opinions on these projects. There is an opinion in the direction that all aid must be stopped. However, there are other opinions that the sanctioning measures cannot solve the problems of education. They are extremely difficult, they go through reforms, they go through trust, they go through supporting measures. Otherwise, we will count the amount of money for the social support system, how much we have spent, how many are punished and we will not achieve any effect. With these arguments, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support the three proposed projects. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u46	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Mr. Shopov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u47	Mr. Ademov, we were very hoping that there would be consensus and we would move towards adopting measures with the will of all parliamentary groups. In fact, only the DPS has been declared against the three proposed bills, which has been shown in the Commission, which you are chairing. Despite your brilliantly exposed figures pointing in a certain direction, it is wrong in my opinion at all your logic and philosophy. With this spell that has been going on for decades, this mantra, which has been repeating itself, not to have eccentricity, not to have excessive measures, it has been seen that, in fact, with elements of such sanctity, with the softest measures of 40,000 children, as you said, are returning to school. The example is clear. From here on out, this is the line. All three bills, as you pointed out, point to this direction, although BSP's bill is most radical, of the United Patriarchs is in the middle, GERB is the softest. This is how you arranged them. You started with the most radical and you reached the softest of the Laws of GERB. That is why I am pleading for the adoption of all three laws there to argue on issues which you raise and which you disagree with rules to be adopted. However, the worst and most unpleasant thing is that in your speech you have once again brought partyity, color, because this is a matter in which there should be no party and color. You talked about the gypsies, will they reach for the red ballot or not? That's not the point, Mr. Ademov. You obviously, secretly, with your position against the three bills, hope the Roma will reach for not any other ballot, but the purple one. I say the purple is not a coincidence because there was a whole period of transition when the DPS, albeit long ago, was identified with the purple color and with the purple ballot.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u48	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Is there a second line? Mrs. Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Ademov, very detailed and thorough examination of the bills and put these on your desk. There may be a serious part of them that, when we listen to logic, requires that we agree. But I definitely wouldn't agree with two of yours. One is that this is related to policies, to the upcoming elections and that it is political populism. The second thesis is that the sanctioning measures do not balance with those supporting them and that the sanction does not always lead to the achievement of the objectives we are looking for. Later in my speech, I will emphasise in particular how supportive the measures are.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u50	Three hundred million.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u51	The support measures are exceptional. In no way can I agree with your thesis that we are almost looking for a financial element to reduce some of the money that the state is giving by taking away these social benefits. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] You have definitely not understood the proposal in our bill because these measures are the benefits that we will stop receiving from families because they do not regulate and give the supportive family environment, go back to the school where they study or go to kindergarten, and they are once again used to support the child or student! So we are not talking about the lack of social support and the deprivation of social support for children. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Is there a third line? Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u53	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Dr. Ademov, it is very nice that you quoted the command of the Constitution, which obliges Bulgarian children to receive a certain type of education, i.e. to a certain level of education, then listed this complex mechanism of coercion for them to go to school, the conviction to go to school, to stay there, only that article of the Constitution is not implemented. In all complexity, we must say that we cannot keep Roma ethnic children in school. I've said it before. It's a cultural modeling and we'll deal with it extremely hard. There is a principle that says that anyone who disobeys the law and violates it is a criminal and goes to a prosecutor. The measures taken for the failure to comply with the Constitution and the related laws are mainly administrative measures, they are not criminal measures within the meaning of the principles of law. All these provisions of the legislation that you have listed do not work. All three proposals, of the three parliamentary parties, are trying to raise the level of demand. However, in order to realize the compulsion to go to school is to be detained at the school. However, as you can see, these parts of the laws do not work. You have done everything very well and I believe you, because I believe that you are the expert, your expert level is most rational and practically applicable. The point here is that you're not suggesting that we raise the level. As far as I understand from your speech, you believe that all the measures proposed by the current legislation are effective and we need to work on them. However, in practice, reality does not produce results and therefore these projects of BSP, GERB, of the United Patriarchs. Suggest on behalf of the DPS something that will result, to be convinced we that this will happen. In this regard, take, for example, the Spanish legislation that works and for about ten years the Spanish Gypsies, Roma are returned to schools and things are going differently in general. I can't understand it, on the one hand, you claim that you cannot keep the huge amount of children at school, cannot be returned, can't stay, despite the enormous efforts the Ministry of Education has made, and, on the other, it seems that things are not going well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u54	Thank you. Hole Doctor Ademov, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, who have done the lines, thank you! There are rational nipples in them, but in order of lines. Mr. Shopov, why are we declaring against some of the proposals made? Because there is a frank violation of the Constitution, we cannot support such texts. To deprive Bulgarian citizens of the fundamental right to social assistance is practically a violation of the Constitution when they meet the characteristics prescribed by the respective laws. Next, there is no way to reaffirm support for measures that are in place in the current legislation. Most of the proposals are measures that exist in the current legislation, and it is not true that they did not lead to that part of the children returning to the education system. The big problem is how to keep them in the education system. Regarding Mrs. Zaharieva's thesis on whether or not the discussion is pre-election. Two months before the election, it's an election discussion, it can't be any other. Whatever we say, we cannot separate this discussion from the upcoming elections. Next, I would like to stress that the discussion about what we should do with the education system, how to make people who come out of the educational system adequate and suitable for the labour market, which is dynamic and is constantly changing, yes, this is the discussion essentially and we answer here to Professor Stanilov, at this stage we are not ready with measures to propose. But we are working on how to make the education system attractive, so that we can make sure that people who come out of the education system have key competences, have knowledge and skills not only, but have the suitability to the increasing demands of employers to qualify workers and employees. Next on the sanctions and incentive measures. Yeah, I know about the incentive measures. I am convinced that encouraging measures will give a better result than sanctioning measures. We can hardly seek balance and harmony between encouraging and sanctioning measures. I therefore think that we should focus on encouraging measures, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Education, together with the operational programmes, proposes such measures. I hope they give a better result than they have given the sanctioning measures. Mr. Stanilov, when there are texts that contradict the Constitution, I repeat, there is no way they can be supported by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. To deprive all Bulgarian citizens of social support, just because they do not fulfil their obligation to send children to school [[the President signals that time has run out]] Or they don't work, they don't take different measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u56	The weather, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u57	...doesn't work community service, means mixing two constitutional principles. Instead of adding to each other, building on each other, we oppose each other, and there is no way we can support such a principle. What about the measures? Yes, this is the most important discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u58	The weather, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u59	We will propose such measures, be convinced, because we live in the era of digital revolution, in the era of digital technology. The skills of people who come out of the education system must be modernised, optimized so that we can rely on a seriously working, dynamic labour market.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u60	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Next up is Mr. Veselinov's statement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! Today is actually a good day for Bulgarian democracy, as we observe a coincidence of those of all political forces, apart from DPS, on an extremely important issue. Yes, it is true that the reason for all these texts is the failure of the integration of Gypsy ethnicity, although not all, including in our bill, this is not pointed out as a direct statement, as this law will apply to all, there will be action on all Bulgarian citizens. But the truth is that this integration failed, and the flagman of this failure are the huge masses of people who do not work are not socialized and who pose even a threat to the security of others for a number of reasons. In fact, we are looking for why it has come to this, what are the reasons and some of the answers, of the measures that we are proposing are related precisely in this direction. It is clear that the bills are a response to a discussion that Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov started at the beginning of this year and all give some answer to the question: what social policy do we have as a whole? Obviously, it is a wrong social policy that the common right to social assistance, which is confirmed in the Constitution, which is taken by the liberal Western model and which does not want anything to meet, is a wrong policy. Whether 31,000 or 300,000 are currently supported, when it is clear that they take money for nothing and that they can take it forever, it is the problem of the state, it is the problem of integration and socialization. In fact, I have the claim that our bill is perhaps the most detailed and precise one trying to influence specific problem areas related to social policy, starting from the fact that we want there to be an individual approach here, because throwing money on the head is absolutely wrong. Perhaps what is most disturbing to the officials of the Social Assistance Agency is that they will have to have some personal responsibility and observe anyone assisted and, accordingly, ask for specific behavior that leads to its development, and not to stand forever on the benefits... in their free time or to do petty robberies, or petty hooligan acts, or something even more judgmental. The fact is that much of the plantation measures that Mr. Ademov listed in his statement do not work properly. The Bulgarian integration policy, as recorded by the way in the Roma Integration Strategy, aims to teach the majority to tolerate the minority..................................................................................... This is the main conclusion of its reading and, more or less, in the social sphere, we are widely borrowing this model. We don't have to slide along the coast. Bulgarian civil servants in the field of social assistance should be motivated that they are the active party, and they should want to. Mr. Ademov asked a question: what measures for impact, support and education do we foresee? For example, if the person is an alcoholic, he will be forced to attend courses that will give him up on this vice if he is a drug addict. All this will sign the rules and is written in the Law. The law cannot go into details.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u62	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u63	In law, the impact measures are clear what they mean and now we do not need to lecture on law. What to talk about improving qualifications? I think it's indisputable. But there's a lot to say here, too, because almost all the gypsy communities in the so-called Deliorman must have gone through some requalifications, and some of them even turned out to have acquired a computer qualification, and none of them probably included a computer. So we must be careful where we direct European and Bulgarian resources, but this is really outside the scope of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u64	That's a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u65	There are so many carrots in all the measures that provide for integration, so few sticks that any additional rod that supports integration should, in my opinion, be welcomed and careful not to stand securely propped up in the corner. Last but not least, in addition to these impact measures, in addition to the annual tasks to be placed by the social servant of the person who is assisted, we also find mass violations in other directions because individuals who have huge houses, often with pseudorenaissance columns on terraces and so on, have been socially supported for decades. We believe that persons who own or use property which does not correspond to their income should be deprived of social assistance and returned. The same proves to be true for the authors of endless coupons in interblock spaces or other spaces, which clearly demonstrate a higher status than that which is due to them as social support. So, without ambition, we close all the leaks of the social system. We believe that the proposals we are proposing are good and decisive steps towards ending social parasitism and, most importantly, everyone who is socially assisted to know: I am receiving from the state, but I owe oncoming behavior towards education and socialization.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any lines? I won't. Next is Mr. Sirakov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ademov, I am also interested in supporting measures and non-violence, but supporting measures should support one person to be on the same level and grow at the next level. When a man is about to drop a level further down, you have to show him that what's underneath him is not good and it's a swamp he can sink into. At this very moment, sanctions are needed to protect him from this step down. You alone as a doctor, as a doctor know that there are two psychological types, they are three actually, but one is those who are motivated by incentives, the other is motivated by sanctions. I will try very briefly to propose an alternative to genesis, to the problem that is solved through these proposals. First of all, what is the problem in front of our country? The main challenge is our demographic picture and that the young laborable population decreases at the expense of people who are in retirement age. The reasons can be in two categories. The first is the external circumstances of wars and natural disasters. She's not like that in this case. The second reason is the financial and economic stability or instability of a young family. If the family has a satisfying job, if there is a satisfying pay, then it feels stable and the birth rate is much greater. Here the decision comes with education. Therefore, it is no coincidence in recent years that education is a priority for all political parties and the government at the moment. Education as a solution will again divide it into two.. the mandatory and the important part. The important part is that education is at such a level as to meet mentality, needs, interests of students at school, that is, to have interest, curiosity and to be in the classroom, to be willing to go to school and return satisfied from school. But we know that it is said: "Whatever you sow, it will reap, which means that we reap what we sow. When a parent goes to work dissatisfied, when he returns dissatisfied with work, he becomes an example of the child's role and does not go to school and does not want to go to school. Not to mention parents who abandoned their children, going to pick oranges abroad, and no one knows what happens to these children, because children who drop out of school are unfortunately not of only one ethnicity, they are of all people of the whole society. This is the more important part in terms of education as a solution, but the more binding part and here are already these proposals for the change of the Social Assistance Act. The mandatory part is, firstly, the children to be in school. There's no way that matter is interesting to them and willing to learn and develop if they're just not in the classrooms. What happens when they're not in school? They become uneducated, they become unemployed, because in the labour market they want qualified and highly qualified labour. Once they are uneducated and unemployed, their social status becomes low and, of course, the level of life deteriorates. This thing also affects the state, on the other hand it needs labour to be qualified. At the same time, however, all those who have fallen out of the education system are at its weight and have fallen into the condition of being unemployed, that is, they have not flown into the economy. The measures are a step towards creating this balance. First, on the one hand, to keep children in school and, on the other hand, not to allow them in the future, falling not only from the educational system, but also from becoming unemployed, to weigh on the social system. Yeah, maybe these measures won't solve the whole problem, but they're in that direction. I think we still have answers to what we are going to vote on in this House. I believe that we will accept it, I believe that between first and second reading the texts will be cleared. What we are going to accept will take a long time to explain it to society, because those affected will not only be minority children and because these measures solve a serious problem and so we close ourselves in the enchanted circle. We must not allow ourselves to tolerate a system that creates a low quality for the public. We must help them to be able to develop, and this is done through education. I think that this whole debate would not have led him if we came to a solution which 84% I think the Bulgarian population wanted him to, and this is a change in the Constitution for compulsory primary education. If in art. 53, para. 2 Just becomes compulsory primary education, maybe things will be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u68	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Are there any lines? I won't. A statement? Mr. Simeonov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction with putting an agenda on a very important topic in our society, the education of children who are isolated for one reason or another. As we all know, for the most part, these are children of the Gypsy ethnicity. This is good news for the Bulgarian Parliament. The two bills could be further improved here, I agree with some of those who have spoken before me. The third one is too shallow and really with an apparent populist use. It is not subject to any comment and discussion. [[He wants an extension of the group's time.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u70	To extend the group's time! It's actually extended to all the groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u71	I hope that those present in this House with full consensus, with the small exceptions from the DPS, will support the two bills so that they can be improved in the period between first and second discussions. These bills are useful, in response to the expectation of the Bulgarian society, they are necessary. "All these changes are necessary. I do not accept any reproach as a political element in introducing the bill before the elections. Before which election? The euro elections, which will be in two months. The European elections will pass, the local elections will be asked. Then should we not also propose, or should Parliament stop working for fear of accidentally falling under accusations for political purposes in the nearby elections? Not to mention what goals three different political parties may have with similar ideas in the bills they set.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u72	We've run out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u73	Are you done?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u74	Yeah, it's been a long time and you've already run out of time. Finish your thought!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u75	My point is that with a position in which all draft laws are rejected under the pretext that promotional measures should prevail rather than sanctioning measures and that they were deprived of fundamental social rights, a certain group of citizens is, in fact, nothing but a purely political statement aimed at sabotaging the adoption of country-friendly initiatives. As always, this does so because, as they did not matter, these 46 million would not be much of an economy, by the same logic, there was no point in arguing about 8 million, which had to be given to the Muffins or 30 million, which were given to the TPPs, Varna, and the property of the Honored Chairman of the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u76	This $44 million thing isn't economy. You didn't listen carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u77	Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Here you are, dear Mrs. Peeva. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With a few figures I will return your attention to a close period of time. The rate of early leavers of pre-school and school education for the period 2013 until now holds values from 13.8 to 12%. In parallel, the functional literacy of the 15-year-olds is in direct proportionality with attendance at school, while for the last two years the functional literacy of the 15-year-olds is about 60% and the increase in the results of PISA tests by 50 points increases by one percentage point the annual domestic product per capita. Despite the measures taken for the scope, the return of 22 thousand students in the previous school year, more than 10 thousand students in this school year, after the completion of the first school term last year again 4556 students dropped out, although 1134 teams visited more than 207 thousand addresses. Youth unemployment also holds high values higher than the European Union average. The share of unemployed young people from 15 to 24 years of age who neither learn nor learn in 2018 reached 12.7%. The correlation between unemployment and functional literacy is clear, as well as between literacy and attendance in school and kindergarten. Why still after applying a number of state support measures, the share of unattended school and compulsory group in kindergarten continues to hold high values? The problem of covering and premature leaving the educational system of children and students requires an integrated policy, the use of various tools and the commitment of all departments and institutions, complex measures and good coordination between institutions apply. It's not just art. 53, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria states that everyone has the right to education, but also art. 210 of the Preschool and School Education Act states that parents have the following obligations: Education cannot be optional, but we must guarantee the right to education of children, which is the duty of parents. The fact is that we have a challenge among social and economic development, perhaps the greatest is to integrate children from vulnerable groups and from families who have no relation to education. The aim of educational policy is for all children to complete school education, i.e. the 19th grade. This includes both elements of support, of encouragement, of equal access by funding education and mandatory elements. Any prematurely tired child is a child who is at risk of not being associated, not to be adapted to the labour market, not to have a full life. If someone harms a physical child, he should probably be punished, but if he deprives him of the right to education, we cannot even punish him. The greatest risk of our society is having a large percentage of excluded people. If we want to live in a successful society, we need to reduce the share of early dropouts. The Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Social Assistance Act proposes to include provisions to regulate that monthly aid currently paid on the basis of art. 9 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Social Assistance Act, as well as monthly assigned aid for rent for municipal dorms under art. 14 and one-off aid at the beginning of the school year for first-graders will be granted after regular visits to the child and the student three days for kindergarten and five hours for one month for students in school. These changes are not about raising parents' sanctions. They are for the motivation of irresponsible parents to secure the right of the child to education, not to view children as a source of income resources. Parents' suspended benefits do not deprive children. The funds are intended to return to schools and kindergartens for general and additional support, for additional consultations, for additional remuneration of pedagogical specialists, for essential items such as shoes, clothes, aids, for personal development support, for psychologists, for social workers. Very often the family benefits given to parents reach the neighborhood pub faster and easier than to the child for whom they are intended. These legal changes protect the right of the child to education. We focus not only on the scope, but also on the detention of children in the school and in the kindergarten. However, when there is no attitude towards parental education, the state must also use other instruments. The extension of the measures to visit compulsory pre-school groups reduces the deficits of habits, competence and attitude of children at that age. The accumulated deficits of pre-school education, such as poor knowledge of Bulgarian language, lead to long-term delays in education in the first years of school education, which demotivates students and creates a prerequisite for their early school dropout, makes them uncompetitive in the labour market, increases unemployment, crime. It all weighs on the social system, on every correct taxpayer, on every responsible teacher, parent and student. Therefore, the policy laid down in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Assistance is a national policy, not a regional or ethnic one. It is not a sanction, but a continuation of the support measures implemented in the current governance. From this year started a program of the Ministry of Education and Science for educational desegregation. Activities of municipalities will be supported to overcome the processes of segregation. The transport costs for children and students can be financed, exchange of good practices between teachers, working with parents. Educational tools, materials and inclusion of educational mediators will be provided. That is, measures to return children and students to kindergartens and schools are not self-inflicted. They are part of a clear and consistent concept, not isolated from each other. Let us not forget that, in recent years, there have been a lot of spending and additional support for interest activities. Access to education is provided for free school buses, free textbooks, free lunch for full-time students and traveling students, free snacks for students up to 4th grade, twice weekly fruit and milk. Centers for personal development support, benefits in kind are provided. The state is doing everything it can to guarantee the constitutional right to education. Parents also need to respect their obligation not to deprive their children of this right. That is why we from GERB are bringing these changes to the Social Assistance Act and to family aid for children. Unfortunately, there are children who are secondaryly dropping out of the education system. Our goal is not to disable the system. Our aim is to support every child and educational system to be inclusive. Therefore, the Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act with importers Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs must be supported and adopted at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Zaharieva, come in, you have the floor. [[Presidents change.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I think we have received an extremely good debate on an important and important topic for society, namely the education of our children, a topic which we have commented on many times here when considering a number of bills. I am happy with this activity and the shared positions because in the end, despite the sneaking position that this is election and that we are looking for cheap or expensive populism, I think that when we are talking about education and when we are looking for all the measures, they are supportive, criminal, compassionate, social and educational, the most important thing is to find the right path and make sure that there is no Bulgarian child who is outside the education system. Why? Because all the reasons that my colleagues have already listed before me are definitely the same. The most important thing for us as politicians is to make the environment in which a child who is valuable to him lives, to build him, to support him and to develop him as a person. But whether this is going to happen at school, whether this is going to happen in the family, is a matter of priorities that we, as a country, need to arrange and seek as much as possible their implementation. I definitely said just now and in one remark that I do not agree with the claim that the moment of the bill being submitted was chosen because elections are coming. Even in GERB's election programme for these parliamentary elections we have recorded that we will seek a serious link between visiting the school and the compulsory kindergarten by the children and paying social benefits for children. We will look for it because we believe that after the state has made maximum efforts to support and keep the children in the Bulgarian school and kindergarten, it should also be approached with the best efforts of the family. And if, unfortunately, despite everything that has been done, there are still families for which education is not a priority and is not a value, we should not allow the lack of a supportive family environment to influence the development of any child in our country. This is also the reason why, in the two years since the management of this mandate, we are taking a consistent step by step in implementing a number of measures to get to this today's proposal and the one called by some colleagues and by some citizens, a final measure that we are proposing. For two years, we have made it possible for the mechanism to cover and detain children to be an extremely active measure in the direction of retrieving and covering all children. Yeah, a lot's been done, but there's still a lot to look for. There are a number of meetings between me, my colleagues from the Committee on Education and Science and all our fellow MPs with representatives from the education system, representatives of public councils, parents and non-governmental sector. Very often we hear: yes, it is very done, but it is not enough that there are still families with whom very difficult to reach contact and convincing that they should bring the children back and they should be in school. We still have problems. The colleagues and representatives of the local authorities share with the coverage of the children. It is therefore necessary to proceed to a bolder measure. This, honourable Members, is the reason for the time at which this proposal is tabled. Here before me, my colleague Ademov shared and quoted the various sanctioning measures under the Social Assistance Act. There are also those in the Preschool and School Education Act. However, unfortunately, in one part of society, especially families that are mainly of social assistance, this measure cannot be implemented. A number of the mayors expressed and shared their fears and concerns that very often the acts they impose remain as a misunderstanding, cannot and do not tolerate their collection, which does not mean that they do not continue to do so. All these problems shared by teachers and colleagues from the local authorities in our meetings are answered in our proposals. I will not go into detail, my colleague Peeva has done so with all the supporting measures that have been taken, but I strongly insist that the proposal that GERB is making in terms of sanctioning with social benefits has several important messages. First, it is a step in GERB's consistent policy regarding prioritization of education. Secondly, this is a strong search for additional support for children, because the social assistance is not giving and not going to a family that does not accept education as a value, will be transferred to the school or kindergarten where the child is being trained and will be used to support the particular child. It's a disciplinary measure. This is not a demand for savings from the state budget at the expense of children or their support. In no case are we looking for such an effect, on the contrary these funds will find much better application and support for our children will be much safer and stronger. I would definitely like to say that this is not about an ethnic bill, because the support we provide for all children in Bulgarian families. I am convinced and thank my fellow Members from the other political parties who will support us. I believe that colleagues from DPS between first and second reading will find their texts, their measures. We will be happy to find common positions and measures to implement, because I believe that it is also important in their position to cover all children and to find the best balance between supporting and sanctioning measures that we absolutely need. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any lines? I can't see. I don't see any other speeches either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I will put the bills to the vote successively in the order of their entry. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-2, tabled by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 3 against 50, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-13, tabled by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 6, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 954-01-15, submitted by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, you have the floor, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u82	Thank you. Colleagues, I voted with a clear mind against it. I see that you are in a hurry, because all three laws do not give clarity on how and how we will provide those aids which are mandatory under the Constitution. Imagine, colleagues, a family has four children living in a municipal home. One child is naughty and there is no way a single mother can get this child to go to school three days this month. And you voted today that you would take away social benefits for the whole family, the six children, including the mother who is trying in every way to raise her child to go to school. This is Karakachanov's concept. This is the concept of GERB. Those who are not here BSP are no different from you. Colleagues, with the imposition of sanctions, you can't bring those poor people even more to a begging staff. Let's sit down and make bills to help and make education such that minorities really get that education that is needed. I see otherwise that you are happy, I see that you have prepared yourself, you have written as schoolgirls what you need to read from here, you have accepted an election program, but its performance colleagues hope you do not. I hope that someday you will not be deprived of all the benefits and rights due to a number of situations that may happen to you, because Karakachanov, Mr. Tsvetanov and Cornelia Ninova have introduced such a bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the DPS and guests on the balcony of the plenary.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. A very ambiguous negative vote. I announce a 30-minute recess and then we will continue with a hearing of the Minister of Energy. "Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u84	Honourable Members, we move to the next point: HEARING THE MINISTER OF ENERGY ON THE BASIS. 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CONCEPT OF THE GASALCAN CENTRE. Importer is the People's Representative Valentin Nikolov. He proposes to hold a hearing of Minister Petkova on the development of the concept of construction of a gas distribution centre. Dear Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to make an exhibition of the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Bulgaria is a small natural gas consumer about three billion cubic meters per year. This makes it not a particularly attractive consumer, and it is difficult on this basis to negotiate gas prices and therefore protect its interests as an independent country. On the other hand Bulgaria has built infrastructure. Let's say that 80% of the compressor stations on the Balkan Peninsula are located in Bulgaria. The infrastructure here is the best developed from all over the Balkan Peninsula, which already creates a completely different reputation for Bulgaria as a transit country distributed to neighbouring countries, and puts it in a completely different place in the energy map of the region. Of course, with the South Stream, this activity might have been much stronger, but due to different circumstances it was announced that the South Stream is ending. Then, thank God, the Ministry of Energy sought another kind of solution, knowing that sooner or later an alternative would be sought to this South Stream and it was declared as a Turkish Stream. We have already taken quite different steps, following European legislation, the requirements of the third liberalization package and started to develop the concept of hub Balkan. Of course, here I would like to pay my respects to the late executive director of the "Bulgartransgaz" - Georgi Gergov, who has made a great deal of effort in this direction. Many people were skeptical, many people mockingly treated this idea, but with successive steps, with the energy that you put into it, both you, Madam Minister, and everyone in this part of the energy, we have already carried out feasibility studies funded partly by the European Commission. There was an interim hearing on this feasibility study in Brussels, in the heart of Europe. We have already requested capacity, we already have, as I understand it, and a contractor for the construction of a pipe to Serbia. You will announce it, of course, Madam Secretary. That is, we are consistently doing our work so that we are not surrounded, to be a major transiter in this region. We also changed Bulgaria's energy strategy so that this hub could be implemented. We also said, which is very important for diversification of sources, minority participation in a posterminal in Alexandroupolis for liquefied gas, where we will be able to draw from another source, not from Russia, so that we diversify sources, not only routes. Of course, it is very important that the connection with Poseidon, so that we can also use the Azerbaijani gas, see what happens there, when the construction will start, when it will end, so that we can use a different source and different gas supply route there too. This pours liquidity into a gas hub, which now acquires quite material dimensions. We can now see what sources this hub will power from, what routes this gas will come from and, of course, this platform, which will be able to trade with the different options one day ahead, futures transactions and so on, so that we can be a significant factor in gas energy. This is what caused me to do this hearing because it is important for our society, it is important for Bulgaria. I would say that this is a significant investment in energy for nearly twenty-something years. So far, we have not made much of an investment, apart from extending the resources of the V and VI block of the NPP. So this is a significant event, a significant part. We know that where there are pipes, wars are hard to provoke, that is, not only being subject to energy security, but also being subject to the national security of a country. I think this is going to be a fruitful hearing. The information we will receive will give us optimism for what is happening in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. You have the floor, Minister, to inform the Members of the National Assembly of the questions you have been asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov! The topic of today's hearing, as you mentioned, is very important, very important not only for Bulgarian energy, it is extremely important for the whole economy of the country, because it is the type of natural gas that is used by both domestic consumers and businesses. Therefore, the price of supplies of this type of resources and the security of natural gas supplies is of priority importance for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian government. Here I use this case to thank the MPs, all of you for supporting the update of the change of the Energy Strategy, which has allowed us to take very serious steps forward towards diversifying the sources of natural gas supply, as well as the routes for their delivery. You know that with the update of the Strategy it was actually possible for the Bulgarian-Turkish-Serbian border to start the procedures both during the open season and the public contract for the selection of a builder for the expansion of the infrastructure in Bulgaria from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serbian border, as well as the participation of the Bulgarian-Serbian-Serbian border as a shareholder in the construction of the El Ji terminal of Alexandroupolis. All these steps are extremely important and crucial to diversify this type of supply of energy resources and ensure security of supply and competitiveness of our economy. When we talk about the concept of developing the gas distribution centre in Bulgaria, we need to know that this is about two main aspects. On the one hand, it is that when we are talking about this type of infrastructure, we need to know that this is about the construction of the missing natural gas infrastructure, which will enable us to supply natural gas from different sources, which, according to European standards, are at least three different sources for the supply of natural gas. The second very important part of this concept is about the liberalisation of the natural gas market, that is, creating such a type of conditions, such a competitive environment that we can ensure the market development of natural gas trade. I dare say that so far there are very serious steps forward in this direction. In terms of infrastructure. On 21 December 2018, the third phase of the open season, i.e. to check whether there is an economic interest in this type of project, started the contract for choice of contractor. This procurement was conditional and the condition was that it would become a fact and would only be progressed to its implementation if the third phase of the market test, i.e. this phase, which provides for the submission of commitments, would be successful. We have thus tried to protect the country's interests to the maximum extent and not to allow any doubt about the fact that someone simply wants to spend money. Fortunately, the third phase of the market test has been successfully completed. This gave us reason to move forward with the public procurement and, by today, I am happy to share that the contract related to the choice of contractor ended successfully. You know that the procedure that took place is an open procedure. This is the most public, transparent procedure possible under the Public Procurement Act. Three consortiums appeared during the procedure and two of them were given the opportunity to submit offers as the other consortium could not meet these requirements. Two of these consortiums submitted their offers containing technical parameters, technical and financial indicators. What I can say is that from the two consortiums that have reached the final, the bid that wins is from a consortium of the Arkats, which consists of a company of the Arkats from Saudi Arabia and an Italian company. They gave an offer that enables us to enter into the budget of the contract, guaranteeing the execution of the contract within 250 days and the cost of the resource determined by the consortium that has won is 4.1%, because, you know, the contract contains a condition for a deferred payment the contractor will build the infrastructure, after which we will return these funds, of course, with interest for a certain period of time. The cost of the resource offered by the selected consortium is 4.1%. I think that this is a good interest rate, but we have given ourselves an opportunity in the contract to look, given that we are going to go out on the financial markets now................................... will hire a financial consultant in this direction, if we find better conditions than these, we have the option to use these better conditions so that we can provide an even lower cost of the resource if, of course, this is possible. Either way, the procurement ended successfully and what follows is steps towards signing the contract and starting the construction. You know that for the implementation of this project we have certain deadlines that we want to meet, and this is the project to be ready by the beginning of 2020. With regard to this part of the missing infrastructure, this is progress and development at the moment. However, when we talk about a gas distribution centre and about this concept, it is not only this project, it is part of the whole infrastructure, of the whole concept that has been developed. When we talk about the gas distribution center, the importance of the interconnector is undoubtedly key. This is a project that is a priority not only for us and for our Greek neighbours, it is a priority for the entire European Union and it is not accidentally included in the European Union's seven top energy priorities. Fortunately, with regard to the realization of this project we also have good news. Three public procurements are underway, which are key to selecting a consultant engineer, supplier of pipes and choice of a builder. The procedure relating to the selection of a consultant engineer is over. On March 15th, this artist was appointed. This is a consortium, which includes several companies - Italian, Austrian, Bulgarian company also participates in this consortium. This part of the selection of performers, which is very important, as the consultant engineer will have a very important key role in the whole process.. it will be in practice the connection between the builder, between the pipe supplier and will coordinate the whole process. So the competence of this contractor depends largely on the successful implementation of this project. With regard to other public contracts, we hope that in April the order for the pipes will be finalized in May and that the contract related to the selection of a builder will be completed so that the start of the construction will be given at the beginning of June. The interconnector Greece, Bulgaria, you know, has a capacity of between 3 billion and 5 billion. Cube. m gas, so this is a capacity which, in fact, is equal to our annual consumption, and Mr. Nikolov noted, which is indeed an opportunity for a real diversification of the natural gas supply source. With regard to the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria and regarding the update of the energy strategy we have made thanks to all of you, it is very important to mention again that it is this interconnection between Bulgaria and Greece that will enable us to take advantage of our participation in the LNG terminal of Alexandroupolis, where we could supply natural gas from different sources, including liquefied natural gas, from the US, from Qatar, from Israel, from different sources, and what greater diversification than this? The connection with the LNG terminal in Alexandroupolis and Bulgaria, and the diversification of sources in Bulgaria is precisely the interconnector Greece? Bulgaria, so this project is also key when we talk about the concept of a gas distribution centre, i.e. this project will give us another, different source for natural gas supply. The intersystem connection with Romania, you know, is a project that has also been waiting for many years for its realization. Fortunately for us in November 2016 the interconnector was built and introduced into commercial operation. So what we can say about this project is that it is already a fact, and this is the first interconnection Bulgaria has with a neighbouring country. When discussing the issue of building a gas distribution centre, we need to know that as one of the potential sources for natural gas supply, we also consider local extraction. This is why local extraction is one of the potential sources and one of the main priorities in our management program in part................................................................................................. We are really very much betting on local production, we are betting on the research that is currently taking place in the deep Black Sea by This will be another different source of natural gas supply. We consider, of course, as a potential source for natural gas supply and one from Romania, because, you know, our Romanian neighbours have local production that is in serious quantities and enables them to cover their internal consumption at this stage. This is in terms of infrastructure. Of course, Bulgaria's interconnector, Serbia, which is very important from the point of view that it will enable through the interconnector Greece, Bulgaria, through the Bulgarian transmission network, natural gas from another source to reach the entire part of Southeast Europe. This is also a very important infrastructure project, which will have a key role for the gas distribution centre in Bulgaria. The other part of this concept is related to the construction of a natural gas trading exchange. The steps we took in January this year was created a company, a hundred percent subsidiary company of Bulgartransgaz, which company will operate the natural gas trading market. We took a very important step with the signing, right after the registration of the company, we signed a contract with the Eastern European Gas Hub, which operates the Austrian Exchange, that is, colleagues who have very serious experience, a very great potential for knowledge in this direction, both in terms of the legal framework of this type of natural gas trading exchange and in terms of the regulatory framework that needs to be set up to function fully. Of course, as you mentioned, Mr. Nikolov, in order for there to be real trade, there must be real supplies of natural gas, there must be liquidity for the exchange, so our task of the government, thank you once again for the support of the Bulgarian Parliament in these wishes and initiatives, is to build the missing infrastructure, which will enable us to contact our neighbouring countries, neighbouring gas distribution networks and ensure the security of supply and competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy. Of course, all this is done in the interests of Bulgarian consumers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u88	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the questions. A question from the political party GERB's parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Tinchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u89	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Europe's gas map is undoubtedly about to change dramatically. The so far main suppliers, mainly Russian gas, across Ukraine, are clearly under huge question. From here we should find out where Bulgaria's position is, given all other surrounding projects related to the transmission of gas. Here I am also referring to the construction of the second tube of the Turkish Stream and the construction of the Nord Stream. The southern gas corridor will also provide access to gas fields in the Caspian Basin, the series of projects related to the construction of LENG terminals. One part of these projects is related to the many smaller pipelines, which also have a particular impact on our country. I am referring to the BREA project, which will connect Bulgaria with Romania, Hungary and Austria, the Eastring project, which will connect the gas transmission systems of Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria. Also, the project, which we expect to deliver gas from large deposits in the eastern Mediterranean shelf and together with connecting infrastructure, interconnections, creates an entirely new environment where it is very likely that the role of the players to date will change, of which, of course, Europe's energy dependence will change, which will inevitably lead to a change in the geopolitical influences in the region. In this regard, it is very important that we assess where our country is and monitor very carefully every process that is taking place. We will be interested to know what is the information from the tender for the purchase of natural gas conducted by Bulgargaz. In the last few days, there's been information about this auction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Tinchev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tinchev, the question you are asking is really very important and very relevant. Bulgaria's place on the gas map of Europe, we have had the opportunity to comment with all of you before, should be strategic. We must preserve this strategic location on the gas map of Europe. Bulgaria is clearly geographically placed so that the natural routes of natural gas from both north and south pass through it. So we have to use all of these purely geographical advantages that we have, we also have to use that we have an extremely well developed gas infrastructure. It was mentioned that it is in our territory that 80% of compressor stations are located throughout the region, i.e. this type of infrastructure that guarantees the security of supply and the quality of the supply of natural gas, so we have no right to make mistakes and we do not have the right not to do everything that depends on us to keep Bulgaria's strategic position on the gas map of Europe. When we talk about the different options, about the different options that exist at present, which, in the interest of the truth to date are quite different, quite diverse, which is good, we must say that we consider Russian natural gas as one of the main sources of natural gas supply, as one of the main quantities of natural gas that can be delivered and which will be delivered to Bulgaria for the operation of the gas distribution centre and for the security of supply in our country. You know that for more than 40 years we have had a very good partnership with our colleagues from the "Gazpromexport" regarding security of supply, as well as talks that are currently taking place in connection with the concept of a gas distribution centre in Bulgaria, so we consider Russian natural gas as one of the potential sources for our distribution centre. What you have mentioned, a few days ago, Bulgargaz is conducting the first procedure so far, no procedure has been conducted for the selection of natural gas from another, different source. Fortunately, this procedure has been successfully completed and the Bulgargaz is successful under the conditions he has set and the conditions have not been easy at all, the price of natural gas to be below the regulated price by the Commission for energy and water regulation. Nevertheless, three participants appeared, three potential natural gas suppliers who offered offers covering all the criteria that Bulgargas had set in terms of price. The one who won the procedure and was ranked first, with him the Greek company "Depa" signed a contract for the supply of natural gas. What I can say in advance is that, at present, there is a very serious interest in companies dealing with the trade of liquefied natural gas. Even now there are such talks going on and I hope for good news in the next few days regarding such another opportunity, so Bulgaria should look for every opportunity. You mentioned the Ismet Project. Yes, this is an extremely important and promising project. The realization of this type of project will indeed be a very serious guarantee for the energy security of the entire region. What Bulgaria is doing in this direction is again through the interconnector Greece Bulgaria, because this is our connection with this type of other options for natural gas supply, through which we will have access and the opportunity to deliver natural gas from other different sources. That is why it is so important to succeed by the beginning of June to start building. We are doing all this to happen because indeed this project, however small it may seem, is only 180 km, about 30 km in Greek territory, the remaining kilometers in Bulgarian territory, but this project is key for the whole of Europe and for the whole region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question should be from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and there will be no question from them. From "United Patriarchs." Welcome, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u93	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! As you all know, during the reign of Mr. Oresharski in Bulgaria three US senators, led by the late McCain, came and ordered the suspension I remember in the previous term, the last before this one, Boyko Borisov participated in the celebration of the start of the gas project, together with Mr. Minev of the already launched South Stream gas pipeline with four pipes. So far, South Stream would have been ready and Bulgaria would have earned hundreds of millions of leva per year from gas transmission charges. Many of the problems that we are facing now will not exist, as we would receive gas directly from Russia from four pipes. By the way, the pipes are still standing, as far as is known, at the Varna port and are waiting for some realization. All we are talking about here is a good gas connection with Greece, a tube from the Turkish Stream.But my question to you is: However, Mrs. Minister, is there not an opportunity to get to Varna, to the Balkan hub, and this is in direct connection with the topic we are discussing about the concept of the Balkan hub, at least one tube, I say it would be desirable to be more, but to go to Varna, to the Balkan tube or more pipes to be in direct connection, to come directly from Russia. This will completely change our situation and would give other meaning, other content and in any case would raise the importance of the gas hub. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u95	Have any conversations actually been made?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u96	We understand the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u97	Is there any announcements on the Russian side or on our side to speak, to have any, whatever, an indication of this happening, to take place?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u99	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, the topic related to the South Stream Project is discussed repeatedly. We all know how this project was stopped, but it was based on a criminal procedure which the European Commission launched against Bulgaria on 4 June 2014. In the actual penalty procedure in the communication that the European Commission sends, two main arguments for the suspension of the project are mentioned. The first argument relates to the fact that, according to the European Commission, there is a breach of the third liberalisation package. The second main argument of the European Commission relates to doubts about infringements in the field of public procurement or, in order to be specific, it is about the failure to implement the Public Procurement Act in the selection of a contractor. You may remember the procedure that lasted between Christmas and New Year's Eve. That is what the European Commission means. I believe that the topic relating to the termination of the South Stream Project is already in the past, but what we need to do from now on is that we must have learned our lessons about how we should not act. I believe that with the efforts now being made by both the government and Parliament with its unreserved support, we show that when we follow the rules, when we follow European law, European requirements and national legislation, things happen. It was no accident that I focused on the public procurement that Bulgartransgaz commissioned now in order to select a contractor. The procedure was opened in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement, the most transparent and the most public, started as early as December 2018. We kept the relevant requirements of the European directives regarding the conduct of a market test. No one in the field of natural gas, the energy infrastructure does not build infrastructure because of the infrastructure itself, just to have a pipe. In order to build this type of infrastructure, it must meet certain indicators. It must be economically justified, there must be an economic interest in its use, because the investment in this type of infrastructure is returned through the price that consumers pay to use this infrastructure. I can answer your particular question as follows. There are no impossible things in principle, but we must follow what the European rules provide for our national legislation. If there is such interest here, of course, there should be talks with the Russian side respectively, if there is such interest, if there is economic interest in the realization of such a project, I think there is nothing impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. A question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, even colleagues who don't do energy have the impression that in recent years we have been talking the same thing. So I'm going to take you back a little bit. I think you remember the gas crisis. Everyone here in this room remembers it. Subsequently, after this gas crisis, there was a development plan for the transmission network of Bulgaria. With this plan in 2009, GERB received that they should build interconnectors with Turkey, with Greece, with Romania, with Serbia as soon as possible. And today, after 10 years, my question is, as Mr. Nikolov asked it, and I ask again the same question: in what state are the interconnectors with Turkey, with Greece, with Romania, with Macedonia...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u102	Northern Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u103	It's West for us, isn't it? There's no way to determine it now. However, it is a serious question: when will all interconnector connections be completed and we, or you, too, will you say that we have completed all actions, procedures and performances in order to have completed interconnector connections? Then we will get to that expression that we all use the strategic geographical location of Bulgaria, then we will talk about the infrastructure in Bulgaria. Then we can ask the question: can the hub "Balkan" be realized and what needs to be done to be realized? Perhaps the next question, which will then be: what are we doing with the connection with Romania, where we currently have an interconnector, which you know we can only push gas from here to Romania, but from there we can't get. Do you have any clarity? Answer me this question so I can ask you the second question, because what you're doing right now is the overall race for 10 years that you want to finish up? I just heard about 6 months ago? If this is very important in 6 months to make the connection with the Turkish Stream, the connection with the Serbs, if we build the tube to Greece, then the question arises when we get to the infrastructure for which you should also answer: what do we do with the other infrastructure, where some other specialists tell us.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There will be time for the second question. If you answer these questions, then we'll get to the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, thank you for your question. We all want to know when it will be possible to implement these projects that you mentioned. I agree with you that they have been in public space for quite a long time. But I think the time has come and these projects will be implemented, as I mentioned earlier in the development of the questioning. They cannot fail to be realised because this is the situation. We just don't have time to delay the implementation of these projects. Regarding the interconnector Greece The realization of this project and the introduction into commercial exploitation of the interconnector Greece "Bulgaria" should be a fact in 2020. This will be a fact together with the realization of the project "Tab". I'm going to tell you right now why this has to happen and why it has to be this way. You know we have a contract with SOCAR to deliver 1 billion. Cube. m. gas, designed precisely for this project for the interconnector Greece "Bulgaria." The contract with SOCAR provides for certain deadlines for delivery to begin. If these deliveries do not start within these deadlines, this means that there is a risk that those quantities actually agreed to be lost. And if these quantities are not a fact and we can not use them for the interconnector Greece - Bulgaria, then practically all the meaning is lost. What will happen and what we are working for is the construction of the interconnector Greece These are the deadlines and the final opportunities that are available for this project. All prerequisites are in place. I have already mentioned, public procurement is in the final rights, we have chosen the consultant engineer, who will have a very important key role in this project, now, in April, will be selected and the pipe supplier will be selected and the builder will be selected in May. So these are the necessary conditions for the construction to begin. There is a permit for construction on both Bulgarian territory and on the territory of Greece, the total funding is provided, the Bulgarian government provided a state guarantee of 110 million. EUR for this project, finalise the contract with the European Investment Bank with regard to the financing of the project, 45 million. EUR has been provided by the Connecting Europe Facility, another 39 million. We have provided EUR under our Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness." So all prerequisites are in place, there is also a very clearly stated political will at the highest level by Prime Minister Borisov, Prime Minister Tsipras. This project is extremely important, it is geostrategic. We realize its importance and its importance, and it will be a fact. Regarding the interconnector Bulgaria We all remember how this project was developing over the years, how several times public procurements failed to select a contractor, just no one could, or rather did not want to, take this responsibility and build this relationship under the Danube, which was a serious test. Fortunately, we had a public procurement in 2015, a contractor has been selected, an Austrian consortium, which has successfully implemented the project and this interconnection works at present. Even within yesterday's real day, the actual transfer is 160 thousand. Cube. m of gas per day. What needs to be done there, and what we expect from our Romanian partners, is to build a compressor station, which will ensure that the appropriate pressure is levelled between Bulgaria's network and Romania's network, which will enable us to actually provide a reverse flow to Bulgaria as well. So with regard to Bulgaria's interconnector, Romania, I dare say that it works, is used and things are finalized. Another very important aspect in terms of diversification and that for years we have only talked about this subject, but you say that there is no action. In 2015, if you remember, an interconnection agreement between Bulgaria and Greece was signed to provide capacity, virtually, on the Tower of Sidirocastro. This possibility is also being used at the moment. Four million cubic metres of gas per day can run on the basis of the interconnection agreement. As far as Bulgaria is concerned, this project was identified as a project of common interest by the European Commission and at the end of 2017 it removed it from the list of projects of common interest. What has been done so far by the Bulgarian authorities is a feasibility study which has been provided to colleagues from Botash. Here perhaps we should open a clamp and say that with the construction of the Luping Lozenets, Nedyalsko and the creation of an opportunity for a reverse flow from Turkey to Bulgaria, which has a very serious capacity of approximately 15 billion. Cube. m gas per year, actually plays a very good role in order to deliver natural gas in the opposite direction. Regarding the interconnector Bulgaria "Serbia." This interconnection is included in projects of common interest of the European Union, a project that has also been delayed back in time for quite a long time, but here the reason is not rooted in us. You know that under the Connecting Europe Facility and the Operational Programme, Innovation and Competitiveness and Innovation, funds have been made available to the European Union for 45 million. EUR, Bulgaria has fulfilled its commitments regarding the absorption of these funds in the first phase, i.e. it has prepared a technical project, a detailed development plan. What actually had to be done to continue the project with the absorption of funds is that the Serbian side had to reach these actions and this degree of readiness of the project, where it is located on the territory of Bulgaria. Since our Serbian partners had a problem with providing funding, this process was delayed over time. The European Commission has now allocated to Serbia's pre-accession funds resources to enable them to implement this project. What we have signed with my colleague, the Serbian Energy Minister, is that the project will be implemented by May 2022. That's in terms of the deadlines we've set for each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the second round of questions. From the political party GERB parliamentary group, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we have learned from your exhibition that, in order for the hub to take place.Balkan, or the natural gas trading platform, we must have three independent sources at the entrance, at the same time with requested capacities. My question is: within what deadlines and in what order will the construction of a liquid market for natural gas trading take place in Bulgaria? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, as I mentioned in my exhibition, the natural gas trading platform is one of the key prerequisites for the realization of the concept of a gas distribution centre on the territory of the country. From another point of view, in order to talk about this type of trade, about a liquid exchange, we must also have the opportunity to supply natural gas in order to have different sources of natural gas supply and real trade with it. In order for this to happen, of course, a series of actions are needed to be taken. First of all, the possibility of supplying natural gas from different sources, that is, infrastructure must be a fact so that we can talk about a liquid market. What we have set ourselves as a task, and on which we are working together with our colleagues from the Eastern European Gas Hub, who operates the Austrian Gas Exchange, these are colleagues with very good experience in this direction, and we are working together with them, we are providing for the following steps and steps that we need to go through to get to a liquid exchange. First of all, I said that the mandatory condition is to create such a company. It's already been created. We've signed a consultation agreement, an experience agreement. What is to be done by the end of 2019 is to introduce a trading platform that will be a day ahead respectively. A trading platform on the basis of bilateral contracts will then be introduced, then a trading platform will be introduced, but this will already be possible after 2020, when there is expected to be more liquidity on the market and an opportunity for medium-term and longer-term contracts will be introduced. The fourth stage that this type of trading platform has to go through is the unification of the Bulgarian market with neighbouring exchanges, which will allow for real participation of the countries in our exchange and real participation in our neighbouring natural gas markets. These are the mandatory stages and steps that we need to go through. Of course, it takes both time and patience and experience. We have to admit that Bulgaria has not so far had such experience, but there is always a first time, as I mentioned just now, that Bulgargaz is not conducting a procedure for the supply of natural gas, but carried out such a procedure and it ended successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the diversification that we all strive for in terms of gas supplies has one very important element of own production. I would like you to give the MPs a little more information about the implemented drillings in the Black Sea for oil and natural gas production and would the Ministry initiate any legislative changes that would increase the chances of such mining happening in the near future?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, as I mentioned, local extraction is one of the options on which we rely extremely much when it comes to diversifying the source of natural gas supply. What the Bulgarian government has placed as a priority in its programme of administration, together with our coalition partners from "United Patriarchs" is precisely the development of local mining, demand and exploration in the deep Black Sea. I can definitely say that on the part of the Bulgarian government there is any institutional support in the realization of this type of activities. You know that in the deep Black Sea, two studies are carried out at this stage - one of the companies Total, Repsol and OMV - this is a block of Han Asparuh, and the company Shell, which is surveying in the block of Han Kubrat. What I can say at the present time is that the companies Repsol, Total and OMV remember that nearly two years ago they signaled that there is a potential oil field, but we have not yet received any more detailed information that will give us the opportunity to clearly tell us what the situation is there, because those who need to provide this information are the companies that are doing what they are looking for and researching. When they have sufficiently definite results, along with the fact that they have found some potential locality, it still does not mean anything, because, in order for there to be a yield, there must be other conditions.. there must be information in terms of quantities, whether this yield will be profitable in order to be realised. This is a complex procedure which, over time, develops and it is not a coincidence that the legislator has provided for an opportunity to extend the search and study period. Such an extension is given to companies so that they have the freedom and comfort to do their work as the rules provide. With regard to the company Shell, action has also been taken in the last few months, which is related to the inclusion of other companies that will seek and study together with the company Shell, which I think is a good sign. We expect the drilling to begin, and we'll be waiting for good news. Certainly, we rely very much on this type of activity because there is really no greater diversification than local production. As far as legislative changes are concerned, I believe that our national legislation is well written in this part, and it is entirely in line with European rules and European legislation in this area. But, of course, if there is any need to take any action and legislative initiatives, we will alert and rely on your support, which I have no doubt, as has always been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a second question, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I see there are many questions, but you seem to avoid answering certain questions that I have asked you about infrastructure. Perhaps because you have explained and explained many times, but still to the Bulgarian society you have to tell why the infrastructure is currently developing on this project, which the Ministry is proposing, and not on the Stara Zagora, the old one, to Dimitrovgrad, Serbia. You owe this explanation. My second question is: when do you think the terminal in Greece will be completed in order to start in Bulgaria to really have diversification and the gas needed to receive from the terminal where Bulgaria will have 20% participation? My additional question is research in the Black Sea. They seem less encouraging, but I ask the question with a certain doubt: how do you see and what do you do for the expansion of the gas depot? Also an awkward question: can you tell us what state is.Ciren, how much gas we have at the moment there and what is the state of the galaxy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Dear Minister, you have received more than one question. You can choose which one to answer, but if you want to all. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u117	They're gas on this subject. If it was about nuclear power or something, I understand, but these are not different questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atalay, questions are really important. As always, the topics you are putting are really important and important for the energy sector. First, regarding the underground gas storage facility in Chiren. This is an energy object that is directly related to our not only energy but also national security, and we all know why. These types of storehouses have two main functions. First of all, to guarantee security of supply. Secondly, they play the role of balancer in the system. So that we want to expand and increase the capacity of the underground gas repository in Chiren, which is currently 500 million cubic metres of gas per year, we want to make it 1 billion cubic metres of gas per year, is completely legal and mandatory for implementation. Moreover, against the background of this project, which we all want together to become a fact, namely the realization of the Gas Distribution Center Concept on the territory of Bulgaria, such storehouses will really be necessary because there is no way to talk about a gas distribution centre, about a gas hub without having such a type of energy enterprise, such a type of energy infrastructure to guarantee the storage of natural gas. So that's where the processes are developing. You know, since 2016, there has been a contract for choice of contractor to perform 2D and 3D seismic studies. Accordingly, the European Commission is asking for funding in connection with the implementation of this project. This type of funding is approved. So we're going that way. As for the other topic that you have put, about the question regarding some alternative route, perhaps Dimitrovgrad, Nis or? That's what I understand you mean. What I can say is that this type of project or this type of route has never been officially discussed. Moreover, the infrastructure, which is alleged to exist there and can be used, could not in practice absorb those quantities of natural gas, which will be transported accordingly under the new infrastructure that we are implementing. So I think it's just some topics that have been discussed back in time, but it never came up with any specific projects, any specific routes that have been discussed. With regard to infrastructure, I mentioned earlier: the deadlines in which it needs to be built are clear, firm, we will continue to work in this direction. So nothing more in terms of infrastructure can I add than that the interconnector Greece - Bulgaria must be a fact in 2020 with energy with the project TARE, the interconnector Bulgaria - Serbia - should be a fact by May 2022. The expansion of Bulgaria's transmission infrastructure from Bulgarian-Turkish to Bulgarian-Serbian border should be ready by the beginning of 2020. These are practically the projects we are all looking forward to, which are really extremely important for our infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. With this, the questions to Minister Petkova are exhausted. Attitude on the received responses on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I think that hearing we had today was important. It is also nice to hear what is happening in our energy that steps have been taken, because honestly, in the last 10 years Bulgaria has been quite lied to. It was not Burgas "Alexandroupolis," an alternative was born at the time "Burgas" Vlora, it was not a South Stream, an alternative was immediately born "Nabucco" was born, and so on. Don't spell them out. After all, nothing is realized. In general, Bulgaria had to take matters into its own hands at some point. Thus, the gas hub "Balkan" I can say that it is absolutely purely Bulgarian solution, purely Bulgarian realization. The pipe, which we have just heard from the Minister that she has already been selected performer, will be absolutely and completely Bulgarian. This pipe will give the opportunity for the Turkish stream not to bypass Bulgaria but to pass through Bulgaria. Of course, this will be one of the country's starting points. Let us not forget that we have each other such a trans-Balkan pipeline, which, God forbid, will dry up, but if the transportation through Ukraine of Russian gas is stopped, then it becomes at some point unnecessary. It must also be realized. Whether it's going to be through the East Ring or something else, but it has to be realized because it's a ready-made infrastructure that can be used. It is no accident that I said that for the first time in Bulgaria's energy sector, if we do not talk about Belene, because it is still in question whether it will be built, the procedures have not yet passed there, but for the first time we have the opportunity in energy to implement a project that will also be exploited on top. For the first time Bulgaria has put funds into such a project alone. I am talking not only about this one, as we already call it the Balkan pipeline, which will go from the Russian border to Serbian, we are talking about participation in the gas terminal Alexandroupolis, we are talking ICGB, we are talking about interconnections with our neighbours. That is, the perspective and future of the development of the gas system in Bulgaria we see that it has its already material implementations and its ambitions to be realized. I can see the specific years that are coming. We are not talking about a long period, but we are talking about a year from now, when two projects will be in operation, this Balkan pipeline to say it, not to mention it all Turkish, which will go to the Serbian border, but ICBC is also being implemented. We can now talk about diversification and sources. So the prospect of Bulgaria standing well on the gas map of Europe is very important. This gives even more important questions that can give Bulgaria the prospect of being in the gas map of Europe, because we see that once upon a time gas suppliers to Europe like the Netherlands, Norway, of course, Russia through Ukraine are already changing. The Netherlands has exhausted its sources of gas, Norway still has good prospects, but in Ukraine we already have great doubt whether Russia's flows will pass? I would even say that this doubt will soon be understood, the negotiations continue, but we are quite skeptical. However, we see new fields that have been discovered. We are talking about the find under Cyprus, which caused Greece, Israel and Italy, respectively, to sign a gas supply agreement from this locality to Italy. But I think that Bulgaria can hardly be surrounded as one of the options to pass this gas and supply South, respectively, and why not Central Europe? We're talking about gas coming through the terminal in Alexandroupolis. There we expect American gas, Cathar gas and whatever else can be landed there. This also cannot go around Bulgaria with the made infrastructure and the money. It was no coincidence that Bulgartransgaz made reversible, renewed all its substations so that the gas that passes can be delivered to the relevant users. So I think that every lev invested in the gas infrastructure provides prospects for Bulgaria to be an unsurpassable factor in the gas map of Europe. I welcome these efforts by the Ministry of Energy. Of course, we will support our parliamentary group for sure, and I also know that we have the same idea in supporting meaningful projects in Bulgaria. In the Energy Committee, we have always thought pragmatically and not politically about these issues. I think we're going in the right direction. God forbid we will soon cut strips of these big energy projects in Bulgaria and this will be a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Dear Mr. Shopov, you have the floor to express your attitude to the answers given by Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, you said very precisely: to make no mistake, to paraphrase, but that was the point in your speech, which made a profound impression on me. Mr. Nikolov, you just said that a lot of people have lied to us about these matters. We talk a lot about our geostrategic situation, our place here in the Balkans as a crossroads that has always brought us conflicts, invaders, slaves, occupations. Let's finally cash it in and get something good out of him. In fact, this could happen in connection with the gas on this subject. We are also talking here about our production of local, Bulgarian, own production. It was wonderfully said by my colleague from the United Patriarchs. He raised such a question. I agree with him very much. Colleagues, I think I'm here from the oldest in this room, I remember that Bulgaria had its own production. I don't mean the one that was mined around Tulenovo. Bulgaria was extracting huge amounts of gas from the Yarinbourski locality. Some have not even heard that there was one in the Soviet Union, which you remember, Mr. Nikolov understands me, was developed by us Bulgarians. Not only developed, but we also had investments there in gas transmission. Gas has been coming at symbolic prices for decades in Bulgaria. On the subject of the lies and deceptions we have endured, some fanfares at Sofia airport played in solemn tone for having achieved a huge victory. This victory was to give up this gas. This happened during Ivan Kostov's time. Then came back the country's deputy prime minister and announced this great victory to give up gas, which for years we could still get at symbolic prices. It was Bakardzhiev. The lie with the Syn Stream. This pipeline had to pass through Bulgaria like South Stream. Now, as we ask a question, then the current question was....................................................................................... He went through Turkey. Now we're making interconnector connections to get this gas when it still hasn't made it to Turkey. Then, I remember, it's the mantra here with the Nabucco. Yes, it was wonderful for Nabucco to pass. However, we in the year 2005, 2006, 2007 said that this would not happen. I'm not going to argue now why I shouldn't go back. As we have always said, things happen or don't happen, and we find ourselves right. The question again of the lie and error that was made with the South Stream. It is easy to say: it did not meet some conditions from the European Union. No, the North Stream is passing under the same conditions, it is a matter of talks, negotiations, how we will defend ourselves to Europe. The colonial masters stopped us then. We turned out to be very soft, without opposing, without defending our interests. Now these are part of the mistakes. I'd go on in that order. I don't have time to make any more mistakes, any more lies they've laid on us. They all led to this situation. What's bothering me is that we're talking here today... The most important thing here is the connection with Greece, yes, wonderful. The relationship with Greece is. One tube of the Turkish stream "Yes." Of everything that is most encouraging for me, however, that in your speech, when I asked you a question about the South Stream, which came directly from Russia and came to Varna, to the Balkan hub and from there to distribute it, you replied that at some point this could happen in a future or under certain circumstances. Let's be more optimistic about this, in this direction. Let's start talking, start negotiations, give the Russian side an indication that we would like this to happen. There's nothing wrong with that, because here with the gas the principle is from the more countries gas will come and power the hub, the better. Let's not imagine a lot of the things we're talking about now are hypothetical, they're in the future. Great, Bulgarian mining, but something is not available for so many years. They've drilled global oil companies, and now we're talking about the depths of the Black Sea, the open Black Sea, it's no good! You remember the Azeri gas started from small quantities. I'll finish this, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues, let's not chase wild, let's not look where things aren't. Things are clear where they are, this is the Russian gas, which is the most real, the closest and the easiest possible thing we can realize. So, like the South Stream, which did not take place, perhaps we should try again to make Russian gas come directly to the Balkan hub. This is the real, feasible, tangible and best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Dear Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Bulgaria's energy security is the theme, which during the entire time of the existence of Bulgaria's energy is like that focus to which every ruling member is directed. The security of energy today in Bulgaria, Madam Minister, we cannot boast that it is at the level that would suit Bulgaria. Why? For diversification from the various sources of energy supply in this National Assembly, debates are held constantly and we can never reach them and make this so desirable diversification. Of course, Russian gas is necessary for Bulgaria, but other sources are also needed. For the first time, colleagues, if we were to do a few moments ago I told Mr. Nikolov that I would spit him out from the stands not to jinx everything that is being done at the moment, not to get caught a lesson, to finally do this pipe, to grab on to the Austrian hub, where to start getting gas from both directions. That's the truth, guys! If we don't set foot on Baumgarten... Everything else from what you heard from the Minister just now, it better be that minister who will finish all these interconnectors and all those connections Bulgaria expects from 2008 or perhaps from 2009. However, I do not know when and how the Prime Minister will wake up in the morning and whether he will not come to ban you and to get away from you. I do not see Mrs. Pavlova and Mr. Dobrev here to explain to them that they will not eat halva, because the uncertainty comes from the decision of the governments in Bulgaria. The uncertainty comes not from the fact that three Americans came to Bulgaria and banned the construction of the South Stream but from the fact that the minister from Plevneliev's office stopped the South Stream because when we started building South Stream, we thought that Bulgaria was so big that we could break certain legal requirements of the European Union. But some people were in this room when they voted not to have the Syndicate, together with Kostov, and now they're crying.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u125	I wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u126	Ah, you're mistaken. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, what needs to happen right now, let's do it. First, we need to make the connection with the Turkish stream, we also need to make the interconnector with Turkey, Mrs. Minister, the tube that will pass, the second Turkish stream, through the Turkish link and the interconnector, which will be done with the existing infrastructure so far, with very different flows that are needed and must be done. We're too late, I told you, with the gas dump in Greece. Colleagues, it won't be far from the day when we talk about gas supply from Cyprus, from Egypt, from Algeria. Now everyone immediately goes to the other extreme, what about shale gas from America, what if it's cheaper than the one that's going to go through the Turkish Stream, why wouldn't it happen? But Nabucco didn't happen because in order to shoot 21 rounds of gunpowder, it needed gunpowder, and it didn't have gas on the forehead of that pipe because it had to be taken from Iran. And Nabucco will remain a fine opera. And nothing else! It is not our fault that GERB, with its previous governments, stopped and Alexandroupolis, stopped and South Stream, instead of making those steps necessary for Bulgaria! Don't take all your bragging all of a sudden, Mr. Nikolov, I was surprised at you just now, and I told you I wouldn't spit at you! But we have to say things right here. And for security, for stability, other than stability, we cannot ensure security, we cannot ensure stability because we do not have energy flows. And what else to talk about the innovative development of energy in Bulgaria! The power plant with 1 billion. 360 million debts?! The nuclear power plant you're burying him with the last ZID you're bringing in right now, we'll talk about it tomorrow. Because we have to please one part of the business, not look for balance. Because we weren't looking for the balance in the interconnector connections. Because we weren't really looking for that strategic geographical place where Bulgaria was located.............................................................. and................................................................................................................ and...... and................................................................. That's what this is about, guys! We can talk long and wide at the moment, I think that colleagues from the Ministry of Energy in relation to these projects are going on the streets, with quiet steps..............................I hope no one has to jump on this platform, start shouting that those big brothers from Russia want to give us gas, and those older brothers want to give us from America! No, colleagues, we need to secure the relevant energy flows for Bulgaria. Otherwise, for their own production, let them study God. But I thought Mr. Iskren Veselinov was standing close to Mrs. Taneva and that's why they talk more often about their own production. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u127	Thank you, too, dear Mr. Atalay. We have also concluded this issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u128	Thank you, and I wish you luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-04-03.u129	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating today. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session shall be on 4 April 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
