ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest to be included in our weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: Hearing of the Minister of Education and Science on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the policies of the Ministry to improve the link between education and the labour market. Importers: Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 16 January 2019 Please vote, colleagues. They voted 177 MPs: 150, none, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. I'm going to read you a few messages now. Draft and draft resolutions from 11 January 2019 to 15 January 2019: Draft Decision on the taking of an act by Recommendation on Employment and Worthy Work for Peace and Sustainability 2017, No 205, adopted at the 106th Session of the International Labour Conference on 16 June 2017 in Geneva, Switzerland. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Air Training Programme for Special Operations (MPPACO). Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with a letter of 3 December 2018 that, due to an amendment of the schedule of visits to NATO ports of NATO non-member countries to NATO permanent naval groups for the period January "April 2019," it changed its order and authorised the dispatch of the frigates from the members of the Republic of Bulgaria from 30 March to 18 April 2019 to participate in joint preparation in the composition of the Permanent NATO Ship Group, which will be held in the Black Sea, in the territorial waters of Romania and Georgia, in the ports Constanza and Poti. The notification was received on 11 January 2019 with entry No 903-09-1 and was submitted to the Defence Committee. The National Assembly received on 10 and 11 January 2019 from the Economic and Social Council respectively: a resolution developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on a proposal from Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulations EU No 596/2014 and EU No 2017/1129 on the promotion of the use of growth markets for small and medium-sized enterprises; an opinion from the Economic and Social Council on a proposal from Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Labour Authority. The opinion supports the creation of a European Labour Authority, with members of the Economic and Social Council calling for this new body to be based in Bulgaria and expect support for this idea from all Bulgarian state institutions and civil society organisations. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the materials are provided to the respective portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Information on inflation and consumer price indices for December 2018 was received from the National Statistical Institute. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Mareshki, a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! These days we have witnessed experience because of short-term and dubious increases in personal rating to put the fate of Bulgaria, peace, ethnic peace in Bulgaria, announcing that because of a crime committed by specific people, almost 20% of the Bulgarian people are criminals. We at Voljas are strongly opposed to this language, which, again, I say: because of the low rating, certain pseudopoliticians who have fallen short in the government of the state are trying to create a problem that no one can predict how far they can go. I know that speaking against this language, which can spark war or tension in Bulgaria, for example, such as Mr. Vigenin will say: "Mr. Mareshki lowers the level. He talked about incomes, about problems in Bulgaria, about low pensions. He cannot imagine that after being in government and being a minister in government, and apparently he has done his job well so that Bulgaria can become the poorest and corruptest in Europe, he cannot understand what we are saying to him. I know that such as Mr. Siddy, who today became clear that they had sent other Bulgarians to blackmail other Bulgarian citizens who were in some level of government of the state, could not understand what we were saying to them about keeping election promises, thinking about the interests of the Bulgarian people. People who are ready to make a criminal group for the sale of Bulgarian citizenship cannot understand what we speak to them from Volja. I know Mr. Siddy will now say, "We have poured a lot of money into the medical system and she will deal with Mareshki." No, no matter how much money you pour into medicine, you will not find such a program to make me a person working for misery in Bulgaria; a person who sells Bulgarian citizenship; a person who blackmails civil servants. You will not find and make such a medical program that can make us one! But we believe that in law there are enough legal arguments that such as those who have sold Bulgarian citizenship, who have ruined the lives and fates of Bulgarian citizens and have made them poor, there are sufficient legal arguments that say that these people should not be part of the government, but should give evidence. We ask: all these lobbying laws, which are introduced by some formations, all these corruption schemes, the creation of criminal groups as the former Vice-President of IMRO talks about his former boss Karakachanov, that he is an architect of a criminal group for the sale of Bulgarian citizenship, this is his closest associate, we believe that because of these things, because of two or three such incompetents, we cannot call the entire Bulgarian people a criminal group for the sale of Bulgarian citizenship, as they are trying because of one or two criminals to call another ethnic villains. We believe that such a language of hatred to nothing good can lead to Bulgaria. We call on everyone to come down to the ground, to stop the excitement! Yes, it is a fact that 20 years to dream of becoming Deputy Prime Minister and at some point you smile fate is no reason to turn some Bulgarian citizens against other Bulgarian citizens and stick labels. I do not want the other Bulgarians to be called "criminals" because some bums have sold Bulgarian citizenship. [[Voiced "Bravo!" by GERB.]] Can we call all Bulgarian citizens "criminals" because some have sold Bulgarian citizenship and others have made people live poor and in corrupt environments?! Let us all carefully learn from the transition, from the mistakes made and cut off the bad things! There's a lot of money going on in medicine. Surgeons cut off the tumors, stay the healthy forces to make a prosperous country from Bulgaria, and the Bulgarians want to stay here and live a decent life in their own country! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and Volya.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u3	Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u4	Mr. President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the declarations on behalf of a group are statements that should have some political character, have a political thesis and at least make sense as a sequence of sentences. It is obvious, of course, that Mr. Mareshki cannot take out the thesis, but repeat lies, slanders, and in this case even accusations of crimes, I think that you should not allow this to happen from the stands of the National Assembly. True, MPs have immunity, but they should not use it to slander and generate suggestions that are incompatible with the National Assembly. These accusations of crimes, if any of the MPs have evidence of them, should be given to the prosecution, rather than to spin the same phonograph from the National Assembly's stands each week, without having any evidence and intentions to actually refer to the competent authorities because they know they are a lie. So, Mr. Chairman, I make a serious remark when we accuse our colleagues or even deputy prime ministers of crime, interrupt the speakers, because we are not talking about freedom of speech here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The big problem at the meeting is that the analysis can only be done after the statement is over, but I will try to comply with the note both myself and my colleagues. We continue with item one of our weekly agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW TO PROTECT THE MEDICAL REACTIONS OF CHEMIC INGREDIENTS AND MESSAGES. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. We will first get acquainted with the report of the leading Committee on Environment and Water. Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. At a meeting held on 12 December 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined at first reading a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Nikolay Kanchev On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Nikolay Kanchev, who stressed that the bill is related to the transposition of Directive (EU) 2017/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 amending Directive 2011/65/EU on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. He pointed out that the main purpose of Directive 2011/65/EU is to limit certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, introduce a procedure for exempting certain materials and components of electrical and electronic equipment and instruments for ensuring compliance with the restrictions introduced. Mr. Kanchev noted that Directive (EU) 2017/2102 amending Directive 2011/65/EU precises the scope of the requirements to limit the use of certain hazardous substances in order to cover electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market on 22 July 2019 and would prove to be incompatible with the application of the Directive with regard to the requirements to limit the use of hazardous substances. He further pointed out that the draft Law introduced different transitional periods for the reuse of spare parts for the relevant categories of electrical and electronic equipment provided for under the revised Directive and the amendments and additions to the Law on the protection of harmful effects of chemical substances and mixtures aimed at ensuring compliance with Directive (EU) 2017/2102 by introducing changes in scope in respect of: exceptions to the scope of certain types of musical instruments, pipe organs, as well as of traction-driven wireless mobile machinery not intended for road traffic, for professional use; making available for secondary market activities, including repairs, cables and spare parts for any other electrical and electronic equipment that is placed on the market and which would be incompatible with the requirements for limiting the use of certain hazardous substances until 22 July 2019; providing, for a certain period of time, for reusable spare parts, recovered from electrical and electronic equipment, for various sub-categories of electrical and electronic equipment. Mr. Kanchev also pointed out that the proposed bill will not have a direct or indirect impact on the state budget, as well as an increase in the administrative burden for the operator, with the deadline for transposition of the Directive being 12 June 2019. The President of the Commission, Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, who pointed out that the text is clear, concerns the transposition of European legislation with a view to complying with the deadlines for this and will achieve the required harmonisation with European requirements within this period. After the vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 15 votes for..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. He will introduce us to the President of the Commission, Mr. Kanev. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u8	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 5 December 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802 01 55. The meeting was attended by: Teodora Jeleva, Head of Department of Complex Permits and Dangerous Substances, and Maria Chenkova, an expert in the Department of Complex Permits and Dangerous Substances, in the Ministry of Environment and Water, which presented the Law. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2011/65/EU on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. Directive (EU) 2017/2102 precises the scope of the requirements to limit the use of certain hazardous substances in order to cover electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market on 22 July 2019 and would be incompatible with the application of the Directive as it stands. The bill introduces different transitional periods for the reuse of spare parts for the relevant categories. The scope of the Law exempts pipe organs, musical instruments that contain lead due to the lack of reliable substitutes. The introduction of the above changes does not expect an increase in the administrative burden for economic operators as it does not provide for the introduction of new regulatory regimes. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a vote with results, 15 votes for the Council of Ministers adopted the following opinion: he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Health on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. At its regular meeting on 6 December 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova; the Deputy Minister of Environment and Waters Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova; representatives of the word organizations in the field of health. The bill and its motives were presented by Mrs. Atanaska Nikolova. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures provides for the introduction of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 amending Directive 2011/65/EU on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, EEE. Directive 2011/65/EU introduces significant changes to the scope, the methodology for limiting hazardous substances in EEE, the procedure for exempting certain materials and components of EEE and the instruments for ensuring compliance with the restrictions introduced. Its requirements have been introduced in the national legislation in Chapter Five of the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures and in the Ordinance on the conditions and arrangements for the placing on the market of electrical and electronic equipment in relation to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances. Directive (EU) 2017/2102 specifies the scope of the requirements to limit the use of certain hazardous substances in order to cover EEE which are placed on the market as of 22 July 2019 and would prove to be incompatible with the application of the Directive in its present form. At the same time, the Bill introduces different transitional periods for the reuse of spare parts for the relevant categories of EEE. The period of transposition of the revised Directive shall be June 2019 and the restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances will apply to any electrical and electronic equipment, including cables or spare parts for its repair, which shall be placed on the market, while allowing the reuse of spare parts for such products for a certain period. This bill will achieve compliance of national legislation with that of the European Union. The Deputy Minister of Health expressed a positive opinion on the presented bill. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out in the following results: 16 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is the report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemical substances and mixtures, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2019. At its regular meeting on 16 January 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Kanchev "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water." The meeting was also attended by Mrs. Theodora Jeleva, Head of the Department of Complex Permits and Dangerous Substances at the Ministry of Environment and Water, Mrs. Maria Chenkova, expert in the Department of Complex Permits and Dangerous Substances at the same Ministry. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures aims to introduce the requirements of Directive (EU) 2017/2102 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2017 amending Directive 2011/65/EU on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. Directive 2011/65/EU introduces significant changes to the scope, the methodology for limiting hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment, the procedure for exempting certain materials and components of electrical and electronic equipment and instruments for ensuring compliance with the restrictions introduced. Directive (EU) 2017/2012 amending Directive 2011/65/EU on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment precises the scope of the requirements to limit the use of certain hazardous substances in order to cover electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market as of 22 July 2019 and would prove to be incompatible with the application of the Directive in its current form. At the same time, the Bill introduces different transitional periods for the reuse of spare parts for the relevant categories of electrical and electronic equipment provided for under the revised Directive. The time limit for transposition of the revised Directive shall be June 2019 and the restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances from 22 July 2019 will apply to any electrical and electronic equipment, including cables or spare parts for its repair, which shall be placed on the market while allowing the reuse of spare parts for such products for a certain period. This bill provides for compliance of national legislation with that of the European Union. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 5 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Members of Parliament, I am opening the debate on the bill under consideration. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see any requests, no records. I close the debates and move on to the vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802 01 55, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. They voted 132 MPs: 130, none, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted and, with this and at first reading, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 November 2018. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next point of our weekly programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE ADMISSION TO THE TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND COLOMBIA AND PERU, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY, WITH A FOLLOW OF THE ECVADOR ACCOMPANYING, REFERRED TO IN NOVEMBER 11, 2016 IN BRUSEL. With the reports of the committees drawn up on the occasion of the first vote of the Bill, we will be introduced to their representatives. Mr. Kanev, would you like to introduce us to the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee Report? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u14	♪ I can't believe on a bill ratifying the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018. At its regular meeting on 19 December 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels. The bill was presented by Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. The Trade Agreement with Colombia and Peru was signed on 26 June 2012. At the request of accession by Ecuador, negotiations shall begin which shall end with the approval of the Protocol of Accession in February 2016 by the Trade Committee between the European Union and Colombia and Peru. The aim is to settle the legal framework of trade relations between the European Union and Ecuador, facilitate trade and investment, eliminate high duties, liberalise the markets in services, include commitments to implement labour and environmental standards and others. The Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, was signed in Brussels on 11 November 2016, subject to subsequent ratification and applied on a provisional basis as from 1 January 2017. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 16 votes for the draft, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. A report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds has come in. Her chairman has the floor. Mr Vigenin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, ♪ I can't believe on a bill ratifying the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018. At its regular meeting on 16 January 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister of Economy. The meeting was attended by Mr. Zhivko Stoyanov, Head of the Regional Cooperation Department, Directorate of Foreign Economic Policy in the Ministry of Economy. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5, and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Protocol of Accession to the Agreement signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels. On 26 June 2012, the European Union signed a Trade Agreement with Colombia and Peru, which has been applied on a provisional basis since 1 March 2013. For Peru, and from 1 August 2013 For Colombia. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 329 of the Agreement lays down the provisions whereby other Member States of the Andean Community may become parties to the Agreement. Ecuador shall submit a request for accession to the Trade Agreement with Colombia and Peru and negotiations with the European Union have been held in 2014. Those negotiations shall end in July 2014 and the Protocol shall be initialized. The Trade Committee between the European Union and Colombia and Peru, which was established under the Trade Agreement, approved the Protocol of Accession of Ecuador in February 2016. The accession of Ecuador to the existing Agreement compatible with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, strengthens the legal framework for trade relations between the European Union and Ecuador and facilitates mutual trade and investment. It includes Ecuador in the scheme of joint rules and institutions established under the Trade Agreement. The reasons state that, through the Accession Protocol, the European Commission achieves the objectives set out in the negotiating guidelines for removing high duties, tackling technical barriers to trade, liberalising the markets for services, protecting important geographical indications of the European Union, opening up labour and environmental markets and implementing effective and rapid dispute settlement procedures. The agreements reached go beyond the commitments made within the World Trade Organisation and provide equal conditions for economic operators of the European Union with competitors in the region. The Protocol also includes a separate chapter on trade and sustainable development in which the Trade Agreement binds itself to the EU's labour, environment and climate change objectives. The importers point out that Bulgaria is interested in further liberalisation of trade with Ecuador and, in addition to removing customs duties, the reduction of non-tariff barriers to trade is of particular importance. With the application of this Protocol, Bulgarian exporters should receive better market access to Ecuador. At a meeting of the Council of Ministers held on 9 November 2016, Protocol No 47 approved the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, and authorised the permanent representative of the Republic of Bulgaria to sign the Protocol on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, subject to subsequent ratification. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the bill in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018. At its meeting held on 12 December 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Zhivko Stoyanov. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Stoyanov, who indicated that the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement was signed by the authorised representative of the Republic of Bulgaria on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, subject to subsequent ratification and applied provisionally from 1 January 2017. The Protocol of Accession provides equal conditions for economic operators by removing high customs duties, liberalising service markets and opening public procurement markets. It achieves the objectives set by the European Commission to protect important geographical indications of the European Union, to include commitments to implement labour and environmental standards, and to offer rapid and effective dispute settlement procedures. The accession of Ecuador to the 2012 Agreement on Trade with Colombia and Peru strengthens the legal framework of the European Union's trade relations with Ecuador and facilitates mutual trade and investment. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for abstention and non-voting proposal of the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill for ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. There are no other reports. We are moving on to debates on the draft in question. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who wish to make speeches? There are no requests for speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018. Please, voting mode. Vote 127 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 1. The draft of ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018, was adopted at first reading. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u20	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure I am making a proposal that the Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels, No 802-02-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2018, be adopted also on a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mr. Kanev's proposal is based on para. 2 of art. 80, which provides that when proposals and additions to the draft in question are not made during the discussion, the vote may also take place at second reading at the same meeting. The proposal is therefore admissible. I'm voting on Mr. Kanev's proposal. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, to introduce us to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u22	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels A single member. It ratifies the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed in Brussels on 11 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u23	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the reported text. Please, voting mode. They voted 123 MPs: 122, none, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted and, therefore, at second reading, the Law on the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador, signed on 11 November 2016 in Brussels. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: HEARING THE MINISTER OF MOVEMENT AND SCIENCE OF BENEFICIARY. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND THE WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE POLICY OF THE MINISTERAGE FOR IMPROVING THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE MOVEMENT AND MARKET OF THE TRUDA. Importers - Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. Minister Valchev is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! For education and business, by chance or not, in recent years there have been two public speakers. The first is part of the employers who accuse education that there are no workers, that they produce people with diplomas, and the places for masons, strugglers or engineers stand empty, that the new footage comes out of the system without knowing languages, without teamwork skills, without, without The second is part of the educational system, which is not particularly excited about the wishes of the business, as it has the task to provide knowledge and skills. And employers are the ones who expect, according to them, footage ready. Dear colleagues, both of these are not true. The picture of the relations between the educational system, the labour market and business is very, very different, the challenges between them too others. There is an indisputable fact that without education there is no stable labour market and economy. In this sense, vocational education and training is the main focus of GERB policy. Children and young people today in schools and universities will be active in the labour market and in 2060 when the world will have experienced a series of different transformations. There will be new relationships, new professions, new skills, competences and knowledge will be required. Industry 4.0 is now part of our daily lives. In school are children who accept the world in a very different way than their parents, and in universities are students who know that it is not enough to work, but want to be motivated. Generations that do not want anything at all costs and are not willing to compromise are those who are currently laying down the rules of the labour market. Therefore, educational policies towards them are extremely important. Dear colleagues, I will not dwell in detail on all the policies that have been implemented and are implemented as part of GERB's management policy. However, I will list the key ones in the field of secondary and higher education. With the changes in the Law on Vocational Education and Training we introduced and expanded the dual training system, and the budget for this year contains additional funds for scholarships of students included in it, amounting to a million and a half leva. We've provided 14 million. lv. European funds for the introduction of the system. A list of protected specialties has been adopted. The reception in vocational and higher education is being structured so that children and young people can go to specialties and professions where there is a shortage in the labour market. I remind you that with the amendments adopted in the Law on Higher Education in 2016, priority professional directions were created, for which we have given the opportunity to lower the fees for training in them, and this year the funds for these directions were raised by 32 million. lv. For the classes in vocational schools in specialties with an expected shortage of the labour market were allowed to be, first, undersized and, second, we provided additional funding of 6 million. lv. Annually. For the students themselves there are scholarships, and the budget for this is increased by 1 million. We include more involved employers in the education system. At the end of last year, with amendments to the Law on Higher Education, the possibility of prominent specialists from the practice of teaching in higher schools was regulated. I remind you that the Law on pre-school and school education included representatives of employers in the public councils of vocational schools. In order to protect and develop the professions needed for the economy and business of Bulgaria, we created an opportunity for the existence of two professions or specialties in one class. And more, we invest in renovating the specialized equipment of study rooms, laboratories and workshops in professional high schools, in line with the emerging modern production technologies. We've secured 75 million. lv. European funds for student and student practices in a real working environment. Over 2,000 training programmes in vocational education have been updated and we have launched early career guidance programmes in cooperation with the business. A program on which the Committee on Education and Science is strongly involved. Dear Members of the National Assembly, today's hearing of the Minister of Education and Science on this topic is part of the duty of all of us to know more about the policy and challenges to be solved in education, which prepares new staff for the labour market. There is no system that exists for itself, but there is a system on which others depend, and this is the system of education. The National Assembly tribunal is the most appropriate place to state not only the political will but also the public that policies for quality education from kindergarten to university to build competent and successful personalities are an absolute state priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Colleagues, I would like to remind you of the regulation: The persons being heard shall inform the National Assembly on the issues subject to the hearing within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to 2 questions and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons answer after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking all questions. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the subject. Education is a state function whose effects are pervasive and perhaps the longest in terms of society's development, socio-economic development, the development of all social systems. The relationship with the labour market is one of the main topics in the field of education. As Mrs Zaharieva pointed out, we are having many debates in this regard because of the challenges facing us. The common challenge for all education systems may be the dynamics of time. Today the weather is faster than yesterday, tomorrow will be faster than today. Much of the professions that exist today will not be there tomorrow. What we have relative confidence in is that every child needs to acquire the so-called "key competences." The dynamics of time leads to the need for individualised and specialised knowledge for different business entities growing. This suggests that education systems should react more dynamically, be dynamically in line with the needs of the labour market. The other challenge we face, specifically for Bulgaria, is the demographic challenge. In the coming decades, young people entering the labour market will be only two thirds of those going out or entering retirement age. This means global shortages in all areas, all sectors, for all short- and medium-term positions. The educational system, of course, cannot solve this deficiency, but what it can do is necessarily two things. One goal is, of course, to prevent any child from dropping out of the educational system. That is why our efforts at covering and including each child are also targeted. These efforts begin and are very important even in the system of preschool education. It is a fact that these children, who are covered in the preschool education system, acquire much more basic and functional literacy and continue in the high school and higher education system. The second thing to do is to ensure compliance with the needs of the labour market profiled, but mostly in line with knowledge and skills. The competent approach was therefore adopted. When we talk about compliance of knowledge and skills, they were updated, as Mrs Zaharieva said, over 2000 programmes, namely 2200 type programs, 2,800 programmes in the different disciplines in which it is more important not only that they have been updated, but the so-called "competence approach" has also been introduced. The competent approach in these programmes means that not only the basic and specific skills for the relevant professional training, but also the so-called soft skills and the transversal competences, which imply the connection of different skills, both learning skills and digital skills, entrepreneurship skills, thinking, creativity and so on. This is not enough as the dynamics of time implies a constant update. The obligation to update these programmes to five years was introduced, of course, in line with the needs of the labour market. When we talk about profile compliance not only in the system of vocational education but also in higher education, the state does not have countless instruments. It may have three basic tools. These are the reception, funding and the third one, which is again a financial instrument, to encourage students to participate in the professional fields in which there is the greatest expected shortage in the labour market, compared to the number of students who are currently learning. We therefore conduct a policy of restructuring the adoption of both in the system of vocational and in the system of higher education. The fact is that the labour market and the education market are two different markets. They have a different logic, there is a different demand in both markets. We, with policy instruments, should try to link labour market demand to the supply of education, which is not always possible. We are restructuring the reception, providing additional scholarships in the priority professional directions, in the system of higher education, and these are the professional directions in which the number of students is lower, compared to the expected future demand in the labour market. In the same way, we have specialties with an expected future shortage of the labour market in the system of vocational education, which are the mechanism to direct most of the students to these specialties. These are generally the specialties in which, over a period of five years, twice as many specialists will retire than they are training in the vocational education system today, or we expect them to graduate in this period in the vocational education system. These are also specialties in the sectors with the greatest added value, with the greatest export potential, with the most investment. Additional scholarships for these directions, respectively specialities, were regulated as a mechanism to motivate more students to join them. For a specialty with an expected shortage in the labour market and the protected specialties, it was allowed to form undersized classes "something that is very important. From the point of view of the implementation of the acceptance plan, these specialties are not excluded when switching from one stage to another of the acceptance plan, i.e. they are not closed when the reception is planned. I hope that in the questions I will be able to touch on a number of other measures that we are implementing, but these are basically policies. The main challenge remains to change attitudes and focus more children and their parents, as very often at the entrance of a high school stage parents are those who carry out career guidance for children. To change attitudes towards these specialities and profiles, which we believe are most important from the point of view of the economy, the labour market, the provision of specialists to important public systems, i.e. to vocational education and, in particular, technical vocational education, to the profiles in the field of mathematics and information sciences, in the same way to engineering and technical professional directions in the system of higher education, pedagogical ones. Ninety-nine percent of the education system is public. We have a reliable estimate of what is needed by pedagogical specialists in the next 10, 15, 20 years. We know how many teachers will enter retirement age and accordingly we know, on the other hand, how many students are studying in professional fields in which pedagogical competence is acquired, so here we put pedagogical and environmental mathematics. Since 2017, the four humanitarian professional directions have also become priority because we have a shortage of students in philology, history, philosophy, religion and theology. This is one of the dramas that we actually have a very small list of professional directions in which we can say that we have a greater demand for education than the future needs of the labour market. These are mainly the professional directions in the field of social sciences, but there over the last three years, based on the changes in the Law on Higher Education, which were made in 2016, gave us the opportunity to regulate the reception, depending on the disruption between today's demand in the market for education and future needs in the labour market, the quality assessment and the reported assessment for the last realization. We have made a restructuring of the reception in the professional directions in which to the greatest extent the so-called "nerrational demand" the demand motivated mostly by the acquisition of an educational-qualification degree in the system of higher education. The admission was significantly reduced in the system of state higher education schools in the professional field of the economy was increased by 50% and in the professional field of administration and administration by 60%. I'll stop there. In the course of the questions, I hope I can touch on other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u27	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, we're moving on to asking questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u28	Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! More and more traditional manual and analogue tasks are being automated in almost all sectors of industry, energy, mining industry, agriculture, health, transport and services. There are transformative changes due to the rapid development of technologies that blur the boundaries between physical and digital and which will change beyond recognition the landscape of the labour market in the near future. According to various forecasts by 2020, between 26 billion and 100 billion devices will exchange digital information. This will provide huge opportunities for optimization of asset and resource management processes, for changing business models, for emerging new products and services. Undoubtedly, the technological revolution that is currently taking place will affect almost all professions, wipe out whole groups of them, create new ones and lead to inevitable job dislocation. According to a popular study, 65% of children who are currently in the first grade will work jobs that do not yet exist and no one has any idea about them. The technological economy will require literate, adaptable, creative and knowledgeable people with very good IT training. The key is undoubtedly education for economic growth. Mr. Minister, how does the Bulgarian education system react to changes and expectations and how does the school prepare young people today for the professions of the present and the future?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, when we talk about forecasting in a period of five or ten years, it is easier to predict, and we can even to a large extent step on the dynamics of the processes that we are taking into account today with regard to the change in the structure of the workforce, the demand for different professions, but it is harder to predict over 15 years. One of the few sure things we can step on is the expectation that the world and all countries will experience large-scale digital transformations, much larger than those that have so far happened with reaching the level of development of artificial intelligence. To a certain level, this process will speed up. This means that most professions will require in-depth digital skills. Not just user skills, but digital creator skills, interaction skills with machines based on artificial intelligence, programming skills, coding. In this sense, we should not have any doubts that we should invest in expanding the base of software specialists in expanding digital skills training, but not, as I said, user skills only, but in deeper digital skills. What we're doing today is we've introduced the subject to computer modeling in third grade. This is not about in-depth skills in encoded, but about initial skills in working with algorithms, connecting the process and so on. We are restructuring the reception, increasing the reception in the profiles and professions related to information sciences and information technology. We've launched the IT career start program. In the first year 500 children were involved effectively, although initially more had enrolled. We now have 700 students in the second school year. This is a Programme that covers students from other professional fields, unrelated to the information technology for training for the acquisition of professional qualification.. This is how we expand the database of IT specialists. Speaking of the labour market, we, in fact, today, have a large shortage of specialists in the field of information technology. The good news is that this is the sector that, because of high incomes, is most able to keep young people, we are not even talking about net external migration. The data given to us by the sector...... is for net internal migration, that is to say a minimum number of students who have completed these professions or who work in these sectors have left the country, we must use this. In most cases, it is a matter of students with high educational results to keep maximum part of them, and this necessarily passes through the reception system. We had a conversation with the Mathematical and Natural Mathematical High Schools. They will also find classes in the field of information technology. Where there is no professional high school to train in the relevant professional direction, professional classes can also be found. We also encourage activities in the field of information technology and digital creativity. In the provisions that we adopted at the end of last year for regulation, organisation and financing of state budget interest activities, we bet that a minimum of 40% of these activities should be carried out in the field of STEM, mathematics, technology, natural sciences, digital creativity. This is more than such activities have been organised so far. According to the Project your hour. On average 32% of the activities were in this area, and on the new project that we are developing and predicting to start this year. "Education of the future." One of the main activities will be funding activities in the field of digital creativity in the first class, as well as, of course, updating the material-service base when we talk about learning through information technology. We are also preparing a new national program, which will probably be called "IT" business goes to school. Here the idea is that we will encourage more interaction between schools and the information technology sector. This includes both participation in lessons from the IT business and training of teachers in IT companies, which should deepen the interaction between educational institutions and the information technology sector. What I have heard from IT business and perhaps a large part of you will share what we can expect is whether we will successfully go through the process of large-scale digital transformations that are coming, whether we will be a developed country, whether we will have enough added value, depends on whether today we will create enough skills in the field of digital creativity, whether we will train children to deeper digital skills, whether we will expand the base of software specialists. Of course, we shouldn't talk about digital skills on our own, and these digital skills should be connected. They must be connected to humanitarians, they must be related to the specific skills of the individual professions. When we talk, for example, about agriculture, a mechanizer must have digital skills, but he must also know the device of a machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u31	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the BSP parliamentary group. Mrs. Simeonova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, education is essential to the realization of each person. Professional education has this advantage that it directly connects young people to the labour market. Quality vocational education creates the footage that builds a successful economy. The National Strategy for the Development of Vocational Education in Bulgaria 2015 - 2020 Some decline in interest in vocational education has been reported, with nearly 25% decrease in students in vocational schools in about 10 years. Of course, the reasons for this are multi-layered, multi-spectrum, starting from the demographic crisis, early dropping out of the educational system, also the ageing composition of teachers, but as if the most important problems are that young people who finish vocational education find it difficult to find work in the places where they live, or the relevant qualifications do not meet the requirements of the labour market. Interesting data are provided by Eurostat and the National Statistical Institute (National Statistical Institute) interesting but at the same time worrying that there are high regional inequalities in access to quality of education. This is particularly evident in vocational education. If we look at the territorial map of the vocational schools since 2016, it is seen that for example in Blagoevgrad and Pazardzhik there were 16 vocational schools and in Vidin 4 in Silistra 5. Because the regional structure of vocational education follows the regional structure of business and here appears a vicious circle. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, I'm done. In fact, low quality of life causes people to immigrate. From there, there is no opportunity for good quality education. From there, the lack of qualified personnel does not allow for business development, production and increase income. Our question to you, Minister, is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science to overcome regional inequalities in vocational education, the relationship with the labour market? A solution to this question and many others...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u34	... BSP gives in "Vision for Bulgaria". Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u35	Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, you have touched on several questions. The fact is that we have a drop in interest. We did a study three years ago and it showed that much of the children and their parents did not see full-fledged, life-long, career-only realization with professional education. The fact is, however, that there is momentum in these attitudes. Today the situation is changing. In a number of companies, positions that require particularly professional technical education have higher remuneration than positions that even require higher education. This is because of the simple market mechanism of supply and demand. It is a fact that in technology enterprises the most increase in remuneration. I have visited a number of enterprises mainly those conducting a dual form of training. What I seem to have seen in all of them is that they in the last five, ten years have mostly reached an expansion of their activities, an expansion of their markets. This is because most of them started their activities or were privatized in the late 1990s. During the first decade of existence, they have made investments or found markets, and already in the second decade of their existence in market conditions they consume the effect of these investments to the greatest extent and therefore increase the demand for specialized labour, increase the need for specialists, increase the high-tech equipment. Today, these enterprises are not with the old cold halls. Most of them are highly technologicalized. That is why we are trying to conduct an information campaign with employers to overcome these attitudes. In fact, they get over themselves in places. This may, to the greatest extent, be seen in Plovdiv, Kazanlak, regions in which we have a concentration of technology enterprises. The fact is that one part of the lack of looking for technical vocational education is that in recent years some of these high schools have been segreging, so to speak. There were students with weaker results. One of the challenges facing education policy is to overcome these, how to say, cultural obstacles and to involve more children in vocational education in technical professional education. As for high regional differences, we have inherited a relatively good network of vocational schools. However, the economic profile has changed in regions. Some of the schools changed their profile, others turned out to be in line with the new profile or changed, but the fact is that professional high schools face the challenges of time dynamics and they need to react. This can best happen in interaction at local level. We don't have those central instruments. What we have recorded in Ordinance No 10 is the reception to comply with local needs, forecasts and strategies, is necessarily discussed in the District Development Council. A leading opinion on the local level. In the end, it is validated by the head of the Regional Management of Education and not by the Minister of Education. Although we have a common policy that we have set out, and it is to restructure it to a greater extent it accepts in professions related to technique, profiles related to mathematics, natural sciences, information technology, it is the guiding principle of compliance with regional specifics. We have inequalities. They are determined mainly by the inequalities in the distribution of investments, by the inequalities in the productivity of different enterprises in different regions. We, with policy instruments, are trying to conduct a balanced regional policy. Schools, which are in remote and smaller settlements, receive additional funding from all schools, not only vocational schools. The focus and priority is given, including with the funding, and with the methodology under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" of vocational schools in the field of agriculture and forestry, which are one of those professional high schools, which have the greatest regional importance and retain a large part of the children in the regions. What I have heard from the Minister of Economy is that we currently have over 30 serious investments in different regions. Investments, each of which will open over 100 jobs or hundreds of jobs. So the shortage of staff, especially with professional technical education, will deepen and the key issue is that we overcome this deficit with the policy instruments we are proposing. Even if the current economic zones with specialists are secured, what I have heard from Plovdiv, over 2,000 specialists are needed annually to provide the necessary basis for specialists in the economic zone around Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u37	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, is an analysis by the Ministry of Education and Science and, if done, what does this analysis show regarding the needs of employees for the labour market in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u39	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, I seem to have already addressed some of your questions. In the medium term or more precisely in a ten-year horizon, we can predict what part of the specialists in the different sectors will be retiring at the moment, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we know how many students are learning in one or another profession each year. We can despise that the dynamics we have in the trends will remain, and that both professions and the structure of the economy will largely remain. On this basis, we also drew up a list of majors with expected future labour market shortages, as well as priority professional directions. They are primarily when we talk about the system of higher education in the field of engineering and technical professional fields. There will be a shortage of engineers almost all majors and the most dramatic is expected to be the shortage of engineers in the field of energy, in the area of water construction perhaps. In terms of the structure of the economy, industries with the highest added value and the highest export potential are electronics, machine building, electrical engineering, mechatronics. There, too, we expect a deepening of the shortage. I have already had the opportunity to talk about professional fields in the field of information sciences, and these are informatics and computer sciences, on the one hand, and computer and communication equipment, on the other hand. We also have no hesitation that we need to increase the number of specialists. Similarly, we expect a shortage in the field of pedagogy, including in the field of agrarian sciences. The same is the situation in the system of vocational education. In these specialties, we are expected to lack the labour market and, above all, in these sectors requiring vocational and technical education, as well as the agricultural specialties in the vocational education system. When we talk about a horizon of over 10 years, then we have to assume that the structure of the economy, the structure of the professions will change. I've already had the opportunity to talk about the fact that we have no doubt that we need to invest in in-depth digital skills, expand the base of software specialists. Most professions will require such thorough skills, almost all professions will require skills to operate with more complex machines, some of which will also be based on artificial intelligence. We must certainly increase long-term acceptance in all professions that are related to technology and engineering sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u41	Thank you, dear Minister. From the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. From the Parliamentary Group of Volja.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in relation to the new vocational training programmes developed together with employers' representatives, I would like to ask you: do they provide for the application of the competence approach with a view to future realization?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As I have told you, in the last two years, more than 2200 new type curricula and more than 2800 different subjects in the field of vocational training have been developed, but more importantly, these new programmes have been developed in accordance with the competence approach. This is the more result-oriented approach to learning. They are structured into units of learning results measured by knowledge and competence. When we talk about vocational education, we talk about three types of competences. On the one hand, these are the key competences that are in the two main groups. In any event, these programmes are betting on the continuing acquisition of basic competences for the acquisition of each profession, which are necessary for each person to be complete both on the labour market and to be a full citizen. On the other hand, these are new competences, and we often call them "transverse" or "connecting" that are designed to connect different skills. These are mostly learning skills, critical thinking skills, entrepreneurial skills, digital skills that are independent of the profession and are related to all professions. The third is the specific training for each profession, the specific competences. As I told you, knowledge related to these competences is becoming increasingly specialized and individualized, which requires a more frequent update of the curriculum and finding those basic and specific knowledge for each sector. Today, the education system, including vocational education, cannot provide specialists who are sufficiently specialised and individualized knowledge for each business entity, and it is therefore very important to find these basic knowledge in the curriculum. These curricula were developed, of course, in partnership with business in the relevant sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u45	Thank you, dear Minister. Second issue by the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, on 25 June 2018, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted Decree No 111 containing a list of the specialties protected by the State in certain professions and the criteria for their determination, as well as the conditions and procedures for additional funding for the maintenance of classes for additional qualifications. The list contains: the first part relating to 29 protected professional specialities for the current academic year 2018/2019 and the second part with specialties from professions with an expected shortage of specialists in the labour market containing 54 specialties. On 31 December 2018, the Council of Ministers updated this list by way of a decree, including in the first part 43 majors and in the second part 57 majors. The wide range of professions and its timely updating signal an effective response to state policy in view of the need imposed by the labour market. At the same time, in the field of higher education, there is Decree No 64 of the Council of Ministers of 25 March 2016 on the terms and conditions for the approval of the number of students and PhD students enrolled in state universities and for the adoption of a list of priority professions and a list of protected specialties containing 36 specialties. In my opinion, it is necessary to update this list in view of the requirements imposed on the labour market and the need to introduce an up-to-date list of protected and priority specialties requiring higher education. A few weeks ago, official data came out for accepted students, realized in higher education institutions and professional fields. From the data provided, progress has been made on the students involved in certain specialties, mainly humanitarian ones, but there has been a decline in the students involved in engineering sciences...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u48	In this regard, it is my question to you: what do you foresee with regard to the admission plan in higher education institutions and is it linked to the needs of the labour market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, as I have already mentioned, with regard to the admission to higher schools, until 2015 "2016" including the funding of students' demand within the capacity of higher schools, the reception was entirely liberalized and state funding was based on market demand for higher education in state universities. With the changes in the Law on Higher Education, which have been made since 2016, the admission to higher schools is determined by four criteria: the first is the assessment of the scientific activity, the second is the assessment of the school activity, the third is the recorded realization, that is the last realization, and the fourth is the future realization of whether this is a professional direction, with an expected shortage of the labour market, with a rift between the future demand for the labor market and today's demand for education. On this basis, the rules laid down in Decree No 64 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 were made and began the policy of restructuring the adoption. This is a restructuring, on the one hand, between higher schools and, on the other hand, between vocational schools in a professional direction with a lower quality and realization rating to higher quality and realization schools, and from professional directions with lower expected future labour market shortages to those with higher expected future labour market shortages. We did an analysis last year and you know the first results. They are in terms of professional directions in which there was a targeted policy to reduce reception and it was reduced. I'm talking about the professional directions in the field of social science, I'm talking about the state-funded admission to state universities, of course. This is the Economics, Administration and Management, Psychology, Public Communications and Politology, Sociology, Sociology, Law and in all these professional directions the reception has been reduced. On the other hand, we have professional directions in which we stimulate higher reception and higher education demand, both with scholarships and with the additional funding of higher schools, we stimulate supply. From the engineering-technical professional directions what we can say is that success is minimal, partial. This, of course, is also determined by the demographic prerequisites, but also by the search for students in almost all engineering and technical professional directions. Here I'll add the environmental mathematics. Although we have an increase in information and computer systems, we have a slight increase in nature-mathematical professional fields of mathematics, physics and chemistry, but the base is very low. Overall, the worrying reduction in engineering and technical professional directions remains. I just said that it is particularly disturbing example of energy, architecture, construction and geodesy, where water engineers are. Therefore, we plan to propose amendments to the Higher Education Act, which will make the training free of charge in certain professional areas. Meanwhile, what we did a month ago, we proposed for public discussion a draft amending legislation that concerns Decree No 64 of the Council of Ministers, which I just referred to. These changes are aimed at greater differentiation in the rules for adoption between professional directions. If so far, as I have told you, the differentiation was, on the one hand, between higher schools and, on the other, between professional directions, we are now strengthening this dimension between professional directions. We have professional directions such as social services, which are our priority, but we have reached the limit of optimization of the reception. The same can be said of humanitarian professional directions. There is no need for further reduction of the intake. On the contrary, the students in professional fields such as "History" and "Religion" and "Theology" are very few and we should even increase them, so they were made priority professional directions. In the new decree we foresee grouping of professional directions into five groups. The first group is those for which we have the greatest shortage, the greatest demand. There are the pedagogicals of the training and there are also chemical, physical sciences, mathematics and the things I told you. In the second group are those in which we stimulate the demand for higher education In the professional field of pedagogics, we have an increase in students, as I told you, but not in the professional field of pedagogics of the training in:... The third group of professional directions are those in which we do not conduct a policy to reduce reception, but we do not have the potential for a significant increase. There are Social Services and Sociology where we have reached the limit of optimization. There are professional directions in the field of arts where we can say that if all these professional directions retain the current number of students, this will be desirable as a policy. The fourth group of professional directions are those in which we do not have a demand problem, but we do not have a targeted incentive policy. That's where the medical professional directions are. We have every reason to expect, as we have had, a future shortage of specialists in the field of medical professional directions, but there is no targeted incentive policy, as there is no shortage of demand for training in these professional directions. There, the challenge is rather to the health system to keep the specialists who are currently learning. The largest is the growth of students in medical professional directions, the largest is the growth of students financed by the state budget in these professional directions. In the fifth group are those for which we have a continuing policy to reduce reception, including the reset of state-funded reception in certain higher education schools, where these are not inherent professional directions. I've listed them for you. I've listed them for you. I've listed them for you. I've listed them for you. Although tourism is a strategically important priority industry, this is the professional direction in which we have the lowest indicator of the application of higher education. Here the search is primarily of vocational higher education, of higher education with a degree of qualification "Professional Bachelor." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. On behalf of the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria "You have the floor," dear Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I would like to draw attention to a model that I think is a white swallow in education and it is the link between secondary and higher education. I can even say it's science. I ask the question and I want to hear your opinion: how do you think and has there been a future development of secondary schools in higher schools? I give the example of Technological School - Electronic Systems.. TOES, at Technical For me this is a very good model because besides early professional orientation, children acquire skills and knowledge that help them in higher education and choose a technical profession in technical universities. This leads to an increase in interest in these specialties, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, increases the quality of education in secondary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u53	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisarova, during the last year we have been able to get acquainted with the model of the two technical professional schools at the Technical University in Sofia. They were created, respectively, 31, 32 years ago. There is no doubt that they are a successful model. However, we must bear in mind that a prerequisite to be a successful model is, of course, the work of the specialists and of the guides in these schools and at the Technical University of Sofia, is that they are in a sector requiring enhanced interaction between higher and secondary education. The most dynamically developing industry, with the most dynamically changing specialized knowledge and one such interaction is mandatory. It is also successful because a large part, as I told you, of children who graduate from a profession or profiles in the field of information technology, then remain in Bulgaria. Interaction with the Technical University allows a large part of them to continue their studies at the Technical University of Sofia. Yes, with the changes in the Law on Higher Education, which we intend to propose, we will achieve a lasting settlement of the status of both schools. As for the extension of the model, we will discuss and propose that such partnerships can be implemented on the basis of agreements between higher schools and vocational high schools in particular, but not necessarily professional high schools. Such agreements can be concluded at the moment, but their point is to allow the exceptions they make in these two schools. They are mostly about the possibility of teachers from higher schools teaching at the school and in terms of curriculums and curricula. We are currently interested in other technical universities for interaction with high schools. Otherwise, speaking of interaction, we should generally stimulate any interaction between the two systems. This happens in different ways. In the field of electric mobility was created a cluster, five professional high schools trained in majors in electric cars and their number will increase. Such a cluster was created with higher schools, with business representatives from the sector, which is also a good model for interaction. In general, professional high schools should be more active. We have good examples of local programmes with businesses in a number of areas and cities of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u55	Thank you, dear Minister. From the group of the United Patriarchs. Again Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, thank you for answering the previous question. In this regard, it is also my next question: what specific measures are being taken by the Ministry, including laws and regulations, with regard to overcoming a potential shortage of personnel for the labour market in the directions you have listed?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, I have already had the opportunity to list the main measures, some of them were also affected in Mrs. Zaharieva's exhibition. As I told you, the main instruments are the reception and the financial instrument, but there are a number of other policies that can be mentioned. Early career orientation is also very important. This is why it is key for us to use the various opportunities to expand the educational environment of children, to be motivated for realization in occupations in the field of technology. As I have told you, in the provisions on interest activities, we have pledged a minimum of 40% of these activities to be in the field of STEM, which aims to expand the interests of children in this area, as a prerequisite to then be realized in engineering and technical professional directions. Inter-school activities and the promotion of partnerships are also envisaged. One of the tasks I have assigned to regional education departments is to provoke municipalities to develop municipal programmes. Of course, they can be intercommunal and regional, so children can visit a larger number of enterprises and institutions, not only businesses, but institutions in view of early career orientation. What we talked about today is that businesses are different from twenty or thirty years ago, they are much more technological and when children visit an enterprise, they see this, they expand their educational environment, they acquire additional knowledge. We have an emergency program in Gabrovo, which we are trying to promote as good practice in all municipalities. Also, together with business and employers' organizations, we organize such programs on the ground. As I told you, we are also launching a targeted programme in the field of information technology sector. The measures to improve the material and technical base are also important. What we should probably take into account is that during the last programming period under the Operational Programme "Regional Development"..he had funds for only ten professional high schools..8 million. During this program period for vocational schools the planned funds are nearly 170 million.. for 145 schools. That is, we are talking about a more than 15-fold increase in the number of schools that will be the subject of interventions under the Operational Programme. What we can say is that vocational education is a priority in this programming period. Apart from this, the annual implementation of the Programme continues the Modernization of the facilities in vocational schools. It aims to help them realize investments in educational and practical training bases, and one of the requirements is to implement this in partnership with the business so that business can be encouraged as well. A good material and technical base is a prerequisite to motivate more students in these professional directions. It is also important to expand the dual form of training, as it is an opportunity to restore to a greater extent the reputation of vocational education, what we have just talked about. Where children are included in a dual form of training, their motivation for effective participation is generally higher. Thanks to the changes that were made in the Law on Vocational Education and Training, some of the obstacles to expanding the dual form of training were cleared, so thank you for that. In two years we have a tenfold increase in the number of children involved in dual training. The first year was 350, and now it's over 3500. As mentioned, 6 million. lv. additionally planned to finance majors with expected future shortage of the labour market and protected specialties so as to motivate professional high schools to find more classes in the field of these specialties and students with scholarships respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. There is no question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You have the floor from the parliamentary group of Volya.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Dual training is a very good way for education in vocational schools to become practically targeted. Practical training can be done both in the undertaking that has agreed to be a partner in the training system and in the relevant educational institution where the student is enrolled. Viewing what is taught with practical exercises is extremely important for vocational education and for the skills that students will acquire. For this purpose, it is necessary for professional high schools to have a modern material base in line with the requirements and needs of the training to be carried out. In this regard, my question is: what is envisaged to provide an adequate material and technical base in vocational schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Axieva, I may have rushed, I have already had the opportunity to mention some of the measures that are being implemented regarding the renewal of the material and technical base in vocational schools. I will just say that the funds during this programming period are for a much larger number of professional high schools This, of course, does not cover all professional high schools. In the past year alone, 26 professional high schools have been further assisted in making investments to improve materially the technical base outside the programme that we said. This is more about general improvement measures related to renovations, roofs, cabinets and so on, and separately to the national programme we have, we are financing the purchase of equipment and the renewal of facilities for practical training. 101 of these 145 public schools are at the Ministry of Education and Science. They are secondary officers with a budget towards us, respectively we implement this project. Specifically, I can tell you that of those nearly 110 million for repairing workshops and laboratories, 16 million will be provided. Seven million will be provided to repair the dorms. The dormitories are an important part of the school infrastructure, of the infrastructure of professional high schools, as in most cases they are of regional importance and cover children more than one municipality, in many cases more than one area. It's important to have good conditions in the dorms. Delivery of specialized equipment in 80 high schools worth 8 million lv. A gymnasium will be built in 8 high schools worth 4 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. Another 59 high schools will be renovated for 4 million. Sports sites for 67 high schools for 6 million and adjacent yard spaces worth 4.7 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u63	Thank you for your answer, Dear Minister. Colleagues, we're moving on to the relationship to the answers we've received. From the political party GERB parliamentary group come in, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! One hundred thirty-two are currently students who are trained in professional classes from 8 to 12 classes in Bulgarian schools. These are actually some of the future employees of the labour market, and that of the very near future. These children will receive the necessary literacy, knowledge, flexible skills so that they can be adequately realized on the labour market. Some of these 130,000 students will choose after school to continue their education to the next educational degree, the rest will go directly to a company with a certain employer. There they will find a really good employer who will provide them with qualifications that will guarantee them good professional realization and personal satisfaction. Even better is that these children will know this employer long before they have entered this company, because he will have chosen to invest in their training before then, so that when they join him in his company, they will return this investment to him. These are the main strokes, colleagues, of the picture that we should see together when we talk about the relationship between the labour market and education. In fact, this is the picture of each student and every student who needs to receive training and to be trained so that it can be realized well in the labour market and realized in the case of an employer who does not reason on the formula: the profit is for me, however the problems to solve them state. Honourable Members, we have heard what has been done so far, we have recalled the policies that the Ministry of Education has also undertaken, and we, as a legislative body, for the separate funding. However, I clearly state that without common and targeted efforts to develop modern competences in future market staff, we will have a business that will work with outdated technologies, which will be constantly squirming from the lack of quality labour, which will seek a solution abroad and will trample on one place if it is able to anchor itself in this place at all. This really means only one lack of any economic development of our country. The fact is that such a disastrous option does not exist because the education system already has the mechanisms to guarantee quality of education, and business in turn has the self-esteem, stability to develop, knows what it wants and already invests in education. Where's the big challenge for all of us? Despite the efforts both on the part of the educational system and on the part of the business, such as the two main parts of a prosperous economy, if I may say so figuratively, treat each other passively and, if they can, often do not talk to each other Let's face it, we as a whole, as a society, as representatives of various guilds, as if we like to talk more, more dissatisfaction than actively participate in creating conditions and working for a good economic development of our country. There is nothing to lie about, but also the educational system as a whole, as if in the last perhaps for more than a decade it has been more focused on how to develop, how to cook children only for exams, for national external assessments, for exams, than to give knowledge and practically prepare individuals who are ready for life and for the labour market, to provide them with competences that will guarantee the children good professional realization, and this is one of the great challenges facing our system. We have the legislative solution, but we have to work now and make it work in practice. Or we could take the business that floods us with data on missing footage, and every other day we hear there's no elevator technicians, we don't have any industrial footage. That's right, I won't! But what exactly did the business do? What is the percentage of companies that have their own programs to attract young staff and their training, but not by completing, but while training? Don't get me wrong. There are companies that have good programs that already work with schools in the dual system, as Minister Valchev says. As we have wonderful schools, wonderful teachers who have long since been working on the textbook and on the instructions of the Ministry. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, but I think that the system should really be free to work according to the needs of the students in the particular school. There they are, thank God, but this has to be a comprehensive one, and it's a conscious policy for everyone. The programs and decisions presented by Minister Valchev, the work of the National Assembly with changes in laws are also important, but we have to admit that we have no more time for discussions, for major debates. We need effective solutions because those over 130 000 students are here now, as well as all the other children in kindergartens, in schools, in universities that need to receive quality education and competences for their professional development and, of course, opportunities to choose a good employer to be realized. In this sense, each of the efforts to invest in this direction from the new curricula through the construction of new laboratories, providing additional funding for scholarships, active involvement of employers, adult training and support for protected specialties are in fact only parts of the big picture of Bulgaria's successful and stable economy during the time of the Industrial 4.0s. We need and work for sustainable, quality, modern education to ensure good implementation of all children. This is the only possible path for good development and for a successful nation and country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, you have the floor, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u66	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to start by saying that you have answered your questions in detail, very comprehensively, very clearly, for which I thank you. But I would like to say a few figures in the opening statement to support the concerns we have about the development of vocational education. Really 130 000 children are in the field of vocational education, but only 3,800 of them, as you said, are in the system of dual education, or so-called dual education. And what happens, and why isn't it developing as we want it to? This is because of all companies only 170 are employers who have accepted to have a dual system, and this is the role to motivate employers, not only the Ministry of Education, but also the entire management, of the entire government, so that this system can be implemented. More. Why don't children choose professional education? I want to tell you that for 2017. 59% of graduates of vocational education are realized on the labour market, while in the European Union the data is 76%. In other words, we need to motivate people and employers to accept vocational education graduates. A little more statistic. According to the National Statistical Institute 422 were vocational schools with 160 000 students, now became 359. You will say: yes, this is the demographic crisis, but it is not because because because of the demographic crisis students at school have decreased by 4% and in vocational schools have decreased by 10%. Should we look for errors only in the educational system? No, and I will say: right-wing governments, the current government does not motivate employers to participate in the system of vocational education. For example, as in the European Union, deduction of the costs of training staff before tax. This will motivate the business to invest in education and something else to be able to make sure that those who have been in vocational education are immediately realized in the labour market. Or as a summary I can say: a lot has been done, but we are still waiting for the long-promised new Law on vocational education. Second, a Lifelong Learning Strategy. I know there is, but it's only on paper. Fast-changing professions, the rapid development of the economy and technology require a rapid change in the qualification of workers, so lifelong learning is extremely up-to-date. Last but not least, I did not hear how these students will be realized who will graduate from the 10th grade under the current Preschool and School Education Act? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-17.u67	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. For attitude on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs? On the will of God? Thank you for your participation today, Dear Minister. Thank you for your comprehensive answers. Honourable Members, Parliamentary Control Communication on 18 January 2019, Friday: Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Christian Vigenin. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the MP Kristina Sidorova. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov and Slavcho Velkov. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov of a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Philip Popov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and a question with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to three questions with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov to two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Rumen Georgiev. The next regular plenary session is on January 18th, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. according to the adopted work programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
