ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period 23 January 2019: "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. Adopted at first vote on 19 September 2018. 3. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2019 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2018. Adopted the first vote on 13 December 2018. 5. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 22 November 2018. 6. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the agenda programme presented to you. They voted 161 MPs: 120 against 1, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 16 January 2019 to 22 January 2019: Project of a decision for the renaming of the Academy of Music, Dance and Fine Arts in Plovdiv at the Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts Prof. Asen Diamandiev... Plovdiv. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Education and Science and to the Committee on Culture and Media; "The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Railway Transport Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It's about to be deployed. Message: On 17 January 2019 an Annual Report on the activities of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies for the period 1 January. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u3	Go ahead, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u4	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. On 14 January 2019, MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a request to Minister Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and to the acting Chairman of the Management Board of the Agency (BSP) and to the two letters requesting the contract between Austria and API in connection with the construction of the highway (Hemus) and the agreements between the Automagistrals and the companies to be used for the construction of the motorway. From January 14th to this day "January 23rd, the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency " not only do they not answer, but no longer answer their phones. [[Radio.]] I'll quote you in Art. 141 of the Rules of Procedure, which is a law in that State, which reads: The State and local authorities and their administrations shall cooperate with the National Representative and provide him, upon request, with information and documents regarding the exercise of his or her powers. The Member of the National Assembly shall have the right of access to state and local authorities and organisations. Madam President, these contracts are there, these framework agreements are there, and the only thing that colleagues have to do is within the day or the next one to provide them. Eight days after our request, they are not only not providing themselves but trying to manipulate society with correct or false information. Please, following the calls of your President and Prime Minister of Bulgaria to respond quickly to BSP's demands...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u5	What's my attitude, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u6	...to order the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency to provide the contracts and framework agreements within the day so that the prime minister will not light you the blue lamp. He said... [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u7	Your time is up, Mr. Svilensky. I understand what you mean. I have not been asked for this request. You directed it directly to the Ministry and the API. I haven't been informed. You can ask them a second question. I'll also be interested in what the situation is. [[People's Representative Georgi Svilenski spoke with microphones off.]] I understand, Mr. Svilensky, I understand what your request is and what your claims are. Let's move on to point one: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIONS RELATED TO OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. With the Commission's report on monitoring the revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling, Mr. Tinchev will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe to the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling on a Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 902-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019. At a regular meeting held on 17 January 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 902 01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy, and Temenuzhka Yankova, representatives of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, the Bulgarian Mining and Geological Chamber, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria. The bill was presented by the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. It justified the need for longer periods for the entry into force of the Law from 1 July 2019 and for the Regulation thereto until 1 August 2019, which are related to overcoming gaps and ambiguities in it, which concern unaccounted for specifics of certain economic activities. On the proposed draft, representatives of the Bulgarian Mining and Geological Chamber and the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association, who do not support the Bill and provided proposals for overcoming gaps in the Law. The same opinion was expressed by the Bulgarian Industrial Association. The Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria expressed their support for the Bill. Attitude on the presented bill took the MPs: Georgi Tarnovalyski, Valentin Nikolov, Christian Mitev, Stefan Burgev, Dragomir Stoinev, Valeri Simeonov and Emil Dimitrov. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 9 votes for the vote, without the vote of the President and 6 votes, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt a bill amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products, No 902-01-2, submitted to the Council of Ministers on 10 January 2019....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Tinchev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, for the second time in the National Assembly, we are discussing a bill submitted for first reading, and we have the same problems that we could have for the second time. The first time was the main sector law, made by a working group in the Ministry of Economy and recognized by 30 "31 MPs." For months, we have explained how the law is introduced at first reading without amendment and that we have no right to make any amendments before considering it at first reading. They asked us to give guarantees, to meet communities, I personally to make a commitment that if you see between the two readings I will make necessary adjustments because the main text just didn't work. Now we are faced with the exact same situation - we are asked is text, it does not correspond with reality at all, it does not solve problems, it creates at least four new ones even for those who are currently trying to strike. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u11	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u12	The volumes of gas stations, internal sites, warehouses, time limits for certificates and a number of other problems remain for the industry with date 28 January. What do I mean? With the adoption of the Law he bet he would enter in six months. So came the date January 28th. Now the proposal of the Ministry of Economy, respectively through the Council of Ministers, is that date to change on 1 July. So what's the problem? In the poorly crafted and erroneously submitted text to the Council of Ministers, and then sent to us, which we unfortunately cannot change at the moment. We can only between the first and second readings. Here's your bill. [[shows bill]] He's two paragraphs. What's the problem? With the adoption of the Law last year, we also amended several other laws in which the obligations arising from this law are also covered and recorded by a deadline of 28 January. Changing only this law, we automatically do not change the others. Even if we want to do this, we need to list all the texts as we did when we adopted this law, and they are not there, they are not mentioned in the amendment and supplement bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. I will only list some of the laws: Law on Road Traffic, Law on Road Transport, Law on Stocks of Oil and Oils, and especially the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. And if from the first three or four, because we have a second point for personal data, and on the basis of what we are going to vote first, we will change the Law on Second, but if from the first three listed laws on road traffic, oil and oil reserves, on road transport, there will only suffer the citizens, to whom in the next six months they will be issued acts for not carrying certificates that no one has given them, what will we do with the others? Last year we agreed on several committees. We agreed and then voted in the Chamber on the Law on Corporate Income Tax. In this law, in § 70, t. 4 we have written and published in the Official Gazette, issue 105 of 18 December...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 4. "4." Paragraph 43, t. 11.................................................................. 47, para. 4 t. 1 and para. 5 which enter into force...... from 28 January Even if today we adopt the proposed amendment law with another date in it, it remains unchanged and binding for implementation by administration and business in other laws, which should also be listed and amended. This change is in at least four laws that we between first and second reading to propose and accept here in the Chamber. Otherwise, all registered economic entities under the Law on excises and tax warehouses are forced to comply with the date 28 January, because this has been omitted. Who dropped it? Why did he write it like that? What was he after? I can't comment. The fact is that we have a proposal for first reading, which we have no right to change. The fact is, this text doesn't solve anything. Today, at the entrance of the National Assembly, a colleague proposed to me for coordination precisely such a text, saying: "I intend to introduce this text to at least the third paragraph required in this bill, with the following text: § 3 is being created. In § 70, point (b) is replaced by the following: 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, So we have to change all the rest of the other ones. Someone at the text submission dropped it. Once again, I would like to point out that we have not submitted this law, but within the period in which it was assigned to us, we have immediately met at the first meeting, we have heard the Minister, we have accepted him and we have even submitted him with an opinion to be voted in the Chamber with the support of the Commission all of GERB and one of the Patriots voted in favour. So this bill we're moving as fast as we can. In it we see gaps and in it for the second time it is produced, as with the basic law.. they pass us a law and then we explain why we cannot change it, and when we change it, we must feel guilty that the authors of the law have written irresistible conditions. In relation to everything, I would like to declare that if assigned to us, I will ask for the minimum three-day period of time for the exceptionally short term in order to be able to make proposals, to enter and to extend this bill in the shortest possible time with the deadline which the National Assembly decides and to enter into force. I have a proposal between first and second reading to add para. 3 - In § 70, p. 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). the words "January 28" shall be replaced by "July 1st" as Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any further comments? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! At the end of the term of office of the past National Assembly, at the BSP's insistence then, we made a Temporary Commission, generally speaking, about fuels in which to examine the process in relation to this sector. The Commission has been working very actively. The services, the Commission for Protection of Competition, associations, outside the associations of companies that are in the industry, have been invited, and we have found that there is a really great need for a law to regulate the processes in this sector. It has been confirmed by all services, following a detailed analysis by the Commission for Protection of Competition, the conclusion was made, i.e. this law on fuels is necessary. As a parliamentary group, we welcomed the Law, which was developed by the Ministry of Economy in its main part and was proposed to examine it in the Commission and then in the Chamber. We supported it as a policy, followed a lot of discussions with people in the industry, with victims of farmers, in connection with government gas stations. You have undergone a lot of changes and I would say that at some point we have remained convinced that these regulations balance the whole sector and all interests are largely satisfied. Even when we were at second reading, I don't think anyone did any obstruction in connection with the Bill. We really do have every reason to believe that everything has been decided in this sector, and the Law, thank God, will be able to see light. We voted it out. With great surprise, we found that this was not the right conclusion. It turns out that there is a great discontent that many problems of the young ones were not solved. So I suggested, after we vote, if we vote on this law at all, it is up to all of us to make a working group and see what the problem is in the sector, because some of the things seem a little ridiculous to me from what has been said. But if there is a problem in reducing competitiveness in the sector, it is indeed a problem of this law. The law should, in principle, create sufficient competitiveness, but it must enable it to have rights and obligations for entities that are in this sector, because the sector generates huge cash flows. These cash flows correspond to revenue in the fissure. After the oil cigarettes, there is the largest cash flow towards the country's fissure. So we must be very careful to not reduce competitiveness in the sector, on the other hand, however, to seek for all entities to be able to respond both to a grey sector and to be able to pay the corresponding excise duties, value added tax, direct and indirect taxes at all. I believe that this working group should work actively if we create it so that we can make a balance in this sector. But to have a law that works. Under no circumstances should the law fail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Avramov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since the establishment of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling at the beginning of this Parliament, one of the main topics that we are dealing with is the issue of fuel smuggling, lightening the sector and, as of March last year, the adoption of this law. It has been explained to us that, by adopting this law, the sector will be lightened, the huge contraband in quotes or not, different opinions will be reduced dramatically. Even at the Commission's last meeting, representatives of one of the main associations in this sector said it was acceptable to have smuggling, but to be more moderate in size, not to be in huge amounts, as they claim to be at the moment. We then supported the Law in order to put some order in the sector. There were a lot of problems we hoped we'd cleaned up. The main ones we were working on were in relation to the agricultural industry, but as it turns out, these are not the only problems, such as mining geology, construction, which have a technique that will be difficult to deliver fuels in this way that are currently scheduled legal regulations. In short, it turns out that the Law is mostly not applicable. After nearly half a year of work on it from March to July, we have created a premature child who cannot work, which is harmful. As we have heard from the President of the Commission, Mr. Dimitrov, we have created an absolute chaos that will take place on Monday on 28 January. I believe that purely procedurally we will not be able to, unless we vote it today and at second reading, which, since there will be proposals for second reading, obviously will not happen. It will not be possible for the current procrastination bill to be adopted, to enter into force and to be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by Monday, until the 28th. That's my opinion. Exclusive management infirmity and by the executive authority of the Ministry of Economy. They didn't find time for six months to make absolutely no steps, no regulations. They could have introduced this amendment bill much earlier to postpone. They did not understand on 10 January or early January that they would not have a ready-made regulatory framework for 28 January. They've contributed to the chaos we'll all be witnesses of Monday. In addition, there is also talk of an urgent new ID that needs to be made to amend and supplement the new law already adopted. That is, we are adopting a law that is absolutely unfit, and we urgently want to postpone its entry into force first and, during that time, make amendments and additions to it. All of this is an illustration of the overall management weakness of the current government. I hope an hour sooner this thing is over so we don't cause any more trouble if we don't solve others. In this situation, I believe that we have no useful move today in the first vote, except to support the bill, to accept it as soon as possible and secondly, to become a legal norm, indeed in the remaining months until July to make reasonable changes and to be able to make this law to enter into force, to work without creating problems without creating chaos, and to create the necessary regulations that it probably needs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Avramov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The examination of today's point was reached after six months of the amendments to the Law in question on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, most generally the Law on Fuels, were introduced. It has come to this point, although even before the reception there was a sharp reaction from the owners of small gas stations, traders who warned that this law would take away their business, they would be taken away from their jobs, they would go bankrupt hundreds, maybe thousands of companies, and thousands of people would lose their jobs. But that's not the scariest thing, that's not the scariest thing. Unfortunately, this law actually led to white spots on the territory of Bulgaria in terms of the possibility of filling gas stations. In other words, he liquidated a number of small gas stations in smaller towns and where they were located in villages because he placed impossible conditions for the owners of these gas stations. We did what we could at the time, as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy and my colleagues from the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria, to explain through the media naturally and through personal meetings that although this law was created with a motive for lightening the sector. We are also on this, despite serious problems with the smuggling of fuels, the distribution of smuggled fuels, the accounting of quantities of fuel and therefore commercial activity with them. Despite these good, positive goals, the Law was largely lobbying in its final version in which it was proposed. Some adjustments were made during the discussion, respectively, in the committees, but they failed to prevent the risk of bankruptcy of these hundreds and thousands dealing with this activity traders. That is why it has come to this day. I am not here to point out my merit and that, in fact, even then, I warned colleagues from the National Assembly, you, and the public about the risks of adopting this law. Now I appeal to all of you, asking us to correct this mistake without making any apocalyptic conclusions and qualifications with regard to impotence of management and what else we have heard from the speaker, because life is alive after all, and the changes in it are happening every day and we must be ready to react and correct the mistake that has been made about this. In this regard, I appeal to all the political forces with a request to support the second examination of the Bill today, as you know that its entry into force is from 28 January 2019, and that will not happen, as the next meeting will be on the 30th and if there is a review of proposals between first and second reading, it will slow down the Law and it will have to return its action with a retroactive date when it is adopted next week or possibly allow two days to act these changes, which, as I said, are repressive to small businesses. I'm sure even if he stays for next week, there's no miracle in these two days. However, from a point of view, I appeal to all my fellow Members to support the adoption at second reading. I would like to congratulate my colleagues from the United Patriarchs, colleagues from GERB, from BSP, and from the DPS all those who supported the first amendment of the Law, to congratulate them on the fact that today they will support at first reading, God forbid and secondly, the postponement of the action by six months. I sincerely hope and recommend to the working group that will work very carefully to correct the changes so that this sector of small, small traders will not be harmed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u20	I'll be brief. Thank you, Madam President. The Branches who felt affected came to the Commission and made a proposal and said that they could be accepted within the exact same time limit at least so that they could prepare these offices and work for the next six months. After all, we want to help the industries, and we haven't heard what the opposition will say. I would like to thank Mr. Valeri Simeonov, because in the first draft bill that was submitted to us, which was disgusting, but one they prepared in the same ministry, I will not say what, we did everything we could to improve it. All this time I had to promise to change texts, given that I was not the author of this project. In the same way, I am not the author and specifically of today's amendment, so I do not feel obliged in any way to say why it should be better in one direction or another. All I'm saying is that there is a proposal already being made and that there will be more proposals already made by the business, it's only a matter of time before they get into the Ministry, and that we have the opportunity to really reach an agreement. Just as Mr. Simeonov has helped farmers to allow them to do so at this time illegal offices under some very favorable conditions, he can safely make a proposal. He announced in our Commission something similar, in the sense, since small gas stations find it very difficult to declare that they have some property anywhere, 20 thousand, make it two levs, as one tram ticket or free of charge. Then all problems should be out of the question. I'll give just one example. There was a report on TV the other day, a gas station in the central city, with two columns, with six guns behind the gas station lady asking her, "Are you satisfied or not?" One apartment in Sofia is worth 100 thousand. Euros. Two acres of space where you can raise a block as much as the gas station's territory is worth... make it 200 grand. The gas station costs 600 thousand, there are five-six tanks below with a minimum of 10 tons of fuel, or we have about 500 lv. property, but the owner of this entire property cannot declare to the BNB to give him 20 thousand, no matter what... Mr. Simeonov, you're a constructive man. Thank you for what we did for the previous change. In your name, propose that small gas stations be entered free of charge, as we did for farmers, as we did for carriers. That's not gonna change the world. The problem is whether they want to fit in. To date, the entire legal business has come all the way in and imported, and has made these collaterals, made expenses, we are telling them at the moment: "You're wrong, you shouldn't have done it, you're stupid. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We will postpone it for another six months... Make these proposals, they will be useful to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, your proposal is absolutely appropriate, because in no way will I or my colleagues support any form of circumvention of the Law or the promotion of gray business, grey business, no matter how small, low level it is done, because, so to speak, exactly the small losses of the budget are ultimately the largest when a calculation is made. So no problem will happen, and he who does not wish to register under these conditions of free registration, naturally, that to him all the power and weight of the Law must be applied. We're on the same page here. Perhaps historically, chronologically, I would like to remind you that when this law was passed, the industry in question of small gas station owners and traders had not yet been organized. He didn't have the relevant organization, association, this is happening on the move, in the process of crashing once again, I stress not well thought-out texts of the Law. In the end, I think that we now have a serious partner in their face, who can be given the conditions for compliance with the law, as we would like them to be from the big ones, so that the law is the same for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Next statement? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are looking at a bill that is due to enter into force on Monday. A bill that already has problems! This is really perhaps.. let's not say that it is the bottom of parliamentaryism, but clearly shows how it works in this Parliament. It is not for a reason that we want this Parliament to be dissolved, because obviously, colleagues, there is no efficiency here! The bill is promulgated July month. Since July until now, it has not been working under regulations at all. Dear colleagues, today there is not even a representative of the Council of Ministers to explain the reasons for this delay! After all, this is extremely offensive to Bulgarian parliamentaryism! This bill was previously examined for six months. All interested parties who were accepted told each other the problems and we, as opposition, wanted to hear absolutely all the problems of Bulgarian citizens. I remember very well the problems of farmers who were solved. Since the last meeting of the Commission, however, colleagues, there have been other problems that have not been solved, both the Mine Geologic Chamber and the Transport Chamber, have come with concrete proposals that we from the opposition are ready to consider and if we have to submit so that we have a working bill. Another is the problem: why has the Construction Chamber since July so far, for one year, not taken an interest in the changes we have cooked, or rather by you, because GERB and the United Patriarchs are the people who run this country?! For me, the answer is because the Construction Chamber dealt with the opposition, the statements of our MPs were followed, threatened our MPs, construction equipment blocked Sofia only and only to work against the opposition, then it was seen that there really was and for what, because in the end they were well rewarded. Now we see that we have a particular problem. I ask: why didn't the government do their job so far? For example, why didn't you meet with those who remained, as far as I understand the Construction Chamber, the Mining and Geological Chamber, the small traders and solve their problems? Colleagues, this bill has been published in the Official Journal for six months! The Council of Ministers and the Ministry didn't lift a finger! Now you want us to vote trust for another six months, provided we don't have a representative of the Council of Ministers here. I ask: what is the guarantee that for these six months the necessary changes will happen or perhaps everything is done in view of the upcoming elections in order to have peace, calmness?! If so, colleagues, this means that we do not solve people's problems, we sweep people's problems away! After all, you, as governors, are called upon to make reforms, not to fear reforms, not to sweep over reforms. Six months is an extremely big political time! If this administration, which even you are supposed to shorten, is indeed professional, we believe that in two months these problems can be completely cleared. Why do we have to wait so long if it's not just a politically selected period? Of course, when there is a bill that concerns any industry and he resents it, we are called upon to solve its problems. I ask: where have you been for this time? Where is all this administration that didn't do its job? This shows that you are indeed unable to govern, colleagues, or we, here in Parliament, cannot produce these laws that meet citizens' expectations. It is not for a reason that we want to disband this Parliament more quickly and move on to elections, because you are clearly showing this weakness. This problem should have been solved a long time ago! That is why we at BSP are here to postpone this bill in order to solve all problems. We're ready to meet the Mining and Geological Chamber and the Construction Chamber. We'll swallow the insults. After all, we are called here not to like each other, but to have a working legislation! We'll never agree to the six months. For us, even two months are a huge deadline to make the necessary changes to meet if you cannot and do not wish to meet the small traders, they are welcome to the opposition to meet them. We propose for two months that these problems be cleared and finally have a law that will satisfy Bulgarian entrepreneurs and the Bulgarian economy. What is happening is entirely your responsibility for sleeping time! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u26	Thank you, Madam President. The procedure we want is the way we conduct it. We would like to stress once again that it is extremely impertinent not to have a representative of the government. The government in those days made a table of meetings, had to come here and explain why the Law was made incompetent, and why should it change?! Just because some oligarchs are holding onto each other's throats doesn't mean our ratings, ma'am, are going to fall from 9 to 7 percent. I would ask you to suspend the meeting until a representative of the government comes and respects Parliament, and you personally, do not wash the hands of the government, who are obviously incompetent. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u27	Thank you, Professor Gechev. We'll contact the Minister of Economy. We'll continue the debate. Here's your first line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u28	Madam President, honourable Members, I feel like I'm starting to live in different realities at the same time. Until recently, I was in executive power, now I'm in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u29	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u30	But if I'm wrong, correct me. In fact, what are we repairing, a draft of the Council of Ministers or a draft of the National Assembly submitted by MPs? I cannot understand how Mr. Stoinev in three quarters of his speech criticized the executive power. About what? I don't get it.! In fact, it is a matter of correcting texts from the Bill which has been tabled by the National Assembly, which you have supported, although we have asked you not to support this law. We asked your president for it, and he didn't veto it either.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u31	Mr. Simeonov, you want a time extension, don't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u32	Yeah, yeah. And in the public domain, it's clear why you didn't react in due course. So it's somehow inappropriate now to transfer everything to executive power. I'm not defending her, but I just don't see why with such a rage, with such a fury, you criticize the government, which has applied these incompetent and clumsy measures that are laid down in the Law, which has been adopted by the National Assembly. Then why didn't you react? Will you reproach yourself or your colleagues from BSP, as well as other colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Stoinev, it is normal to use the situation, of course, politically, but the work of a parliament is not only the majority that governs. That's why there's opposition. If there are such mutual accusations, I can reproach you "Why didn't you recognize some of the problems they are putting in order to say: "Abe, hey, ajeba, this law that is proposed must be changed. " - Isn't that why it is the opposition's role to be able to correct, to correct, to correct the rulers? Or, in the end, you didn't see these problems. Apparently, you didn't see them. Obviously, we all didn't see them, so really, thank God, the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister have seen this problem and dropped this law. But I would like to ask you here because you have stated a change in the Bill proposed by the Council of Ministers: do you agree to pass at second reading today so that we can postpone the deadline and work on it, or do you want a change in this law? So we cannot accept at first and second reading the Bill and in this case the Law will enter into force immediately next week, and what do we do next? That's what I want you to answer in your asshole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Here's a third line, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoinev, I remember very well the moment when the Bill was introduced at first reading. Between first and second reading, with the exception of Professor Gechev, my respect to him is the only one from your group who expressed the will to resist this bill. Neither in the Economic Commission nor in any of the other committees took the floor to oppose what was proposed. If it wasn't for the farmers' threats, then the lyrics would probably still be there. But when we talk, those people who have small and medium-sized gas stations, who didn't see them? They were here, in the back of the horse's tail, as they say. They were protesting here, and you are now saying that you are ready to meet them. Why didn't you meet between first and second readings when they protested and wanted these changes? Now we're suddenly against things that were seen before the adoption of second reading?! I'm very surprised! Suddenly, there were many fighters against this law, and we all know what was going on in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I thank all three Members for the lines, because I think it is necessary to make clear what is happening at the moment and to make it clear also to all citizens. This bill was originally set up in a working commission with the participation of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the National Revenue Agency, Customs, for months it was discussed and even the head of this commission came to Parliament to defend it. We blame the Ministry itself for not even lifting a finger for regulations. I mean, from the beginning, maybe he was trying to sabotage the entry of the Bill because the Ministry didn't lift a finger. About the lines of Mr. Nikolov and Mr. Sabanov. We have had concrete proposals precisely from the small traders that you rejected. Here I should quote our MPs from Burgas, from Dobrich, who had, if necessary, to go back to second reading to see the concrete proposals that would satisfy small and medium-sized enterprises, the small traders that you, in this Chamber, rejected. So I can't understand how you suddenly saw and attacked the opposition. It's not the opposition's problem, it's your problem. You run this country. Of course, we are ready to correct and give our proposals, as a concrete proposal will be made shortly by the opposition's MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Next statement? Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! The arguments that Dragomir Stoinev outlined are completely justified. To understand that there is not only political talk and to accuse us, as Mr. Nikolov said, that we are opposition, there is hardly anything else to offer, I will submit a proposal for a second reading with the following reasons: At the presentation of the Draft Law, submitted by the Council of Ministers, during the meeting of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, it became clear from the discussion of the Bill that this sectoral law was necessary and again confirmed that the National Assembly had properly adopted it less than six months ago, but it was argued that the formal reason for submitting the government's proposal was that there was a sector of the economy whose peculiarities had not been taken into account. At its adoption it was about the mining industry, in the meeting was presented this industry in the face of the Bulgarian Mining and Geological Chamber, which presented the texts of the proposals, which became clear that they were not contradictory and perceived by the other entities regulated by the Law and are in sync with the other texts of the same law. In this situation, I will put forward a proposal that will be able to remove the omission in the Law without delaying its action. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Come in for a statement, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable colleagues on the right, patriots! It's always your fault. You're willing to do something nice, someone's stopping you. After all, leave this government. You can't be a part of it when you like it when you don't like being an opposition. It's not true that no meetings have been made, it's not true that we haven't noticed the protesters. I've met them myself. And small traders, small gas stations don't really have uniform demands. The BSP colleagues and I made a proposal in this direction, you rejected them yourself. What to date I have as information from them is that they do not have a single opinion whether they want to abolish the entire Law, such a Law at all, or want to change specific things in it. On the committee itself their lawyer did not attend, did not come, was late and ultimately of them and to date we do not have one single position. What you're saying isn't really true. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches, colleagues? I don't see anyone else who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote the bill amending the Law on the Administrative Regulation of Economic Activities relating to Oil and Oil Products. Please, voting mode. They voted 140 MPs: 112, none, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u44	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, we have heard that all Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups are ready for proposals under this law between first and second readings. In this regard, I am making a procedural proposal to shorten the term to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 139 MPs: 124 against 7, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making an offer according to art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly should be granted permission by Krasimir Tsipov.. Deputy Minister of Interior, Ventsislav Karadzhov. Chairman of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, and Teodora Tochkova.. Chief Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u48	On 18 July 2018, a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018, adopted at the first vote on 19 September 2018. The Law on the Protection of Personal Data is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Art. 1. (1) This law governs public relations relating to the protection of the rights of natural persons when processing their personal data, insofar as they are not governed by Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (OJ C 119/1 of 4 May 2016.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) (2) This law also lays down rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the execution of penalties, including preventing and preventing threats to public policy and security. (3) The purpose of the law shall be to ensure the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of para. 2. (4) This law shall also lay down: 1. the status of the Commission for the protection of personal data as a supervisory authority responsible for protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons in relation to the processing and facilitation of the free movement of personal data in the European Union; 2. the powers of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council in carrying out supervision of the processing of personal data in the cases referred to in art. 17; 3. the remedies; 4. accreditation and certification in the field of personal data protection; 5. special cases of processing of personal data. (5) This law shall not apply to the processing of personal data for the purpose of the defence of the Party and national security, unless otherwise provided for in a special law. (6) This law shall not apply to the processing of personal data of deceased persons, except in the cases referred to in art. 25f. (7) When processing personal data under art. 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the countries which are parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation are equal to the Member States of the European Union. All other countries are third countries. (8) When processing personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 The countries participating in the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis are equal to the Member States of the European Union. All other countries are third countries. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u49	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote: the name of the Law; the version of § 1 of the Commission Report; and the version of § 2 of the Commission Report, which includes the cancellation of art. 2, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u50	They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u51	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the "1." Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, hereinafter referred to as the Committee, is a permanent independent supervisory authority acting in the protection of individuals in the processing of their personal data and in the exercise of access to such data, as well as control of compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and that law. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Commission is a legal person of budget support based in Sofia and its Chair is a senior authorising officer. According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. The second sentence shall be created: the Chair and the members of the Committee shall perform their duties after their term of office has expired until the election of the new President and Members. 2. In para. 6 the words "January 31" shall be replaced by "March 31," "January 31" and "January 31" shall be replaced by "January 31." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is In carrying out its work, the Commission shall be assisted by an administration. (2) The Commission shall lay down in its Rules of Procedure its activities, the activities of its administration and the procedure for examining the proceedings before it and shall publish it in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u52	Are there any speeches? I won't. We proceed to the vote on the editorials of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u53	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments and additions are "1." A new para is being created. 1: The Commission shall carry out the tasks referred to in Article 1. 57 of Regulation (EU) 2. So far, the Al. 1 becomes para. 2 and is amended as follows: In addition to the tasks under para. 1, the Commission: 1. analyse and carry out comprehensive supervision and ensure compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, with this law and with the legislation in the field of the protection of personal data, except in the cases referred to in art. 17; 2. issue regulations on the protection of personal data; 3. ensure the implementation of the decisions of the European Commission in the area of personal data protection and the implementation of the binding decisions of the European Data Protection Committee under art. 65 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; 4. participate in international cooperation with other personal data protection authorities and international personal data protection organisations; 5. participate in the negotiations and conclusion of bilateral or multilateral agreements on matters of its competence; 6. organise, coordinate and conduct personal data protection training; 7. issue general and regulatory administrative acts relating to its powers in the cases provided for in law. 3. So far, the Al. Two is canceled. 4. Allinea 4 is canceled. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 10a "10d: Art. 10a. (1) The Commission shall exercise the powers under art. 58 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (2) The Commission shall also have the following powers: 1. to the court for infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; 2. provide guidance, issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in relation to the protection of personal data. Art. 10b. The Commission may be entrusted with other tasks and powers only by law. Art. 10c. (1) The Commission shall participate in the consistency mechanism under art. 63 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and cooperate with the lead or affected supervisory authorities of the Member States of the European Union, including by exchanging information, providing or requesting mutual assistance or participating in joint operations pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (2) Forms of participation in the mechanism of consistency, provision and request of mutual assistance and participation in joint operations, as well as the procedures under which they are carried out shall be determined by the rules of art. 9, para. 2. Art. 10 years. In exercising its tasks and powers in relation to administrators or processors of personal data which are micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of art. 3 of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act, the Commission takes into account their special needs and resources available. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, in which the words "art." 89, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 87, para. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u54	Are there any statements under paragraphs 6, 7 and 8? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's amendments for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u55	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 the words "preliminary, ongoing and follow-up checks for compliance with this law' shall be replaced by "preliminary consultations, inspections and joint operations to comply with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and that law. 2. Alinei 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: Other than in the cases referred to in art. 36 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 prior consultations shall also be carried out when personal data are processed in the performance of a task in the public interest, including social protection and public health processing. In this case, the Commission may authorise the processing before the expiry of the period referred to in Article 1. 36 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (3) Preliminary consultations shall be carried out according to art. 36 (2) and (3) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (4) Inspections shall be carried out at the initiative of the Commission, on a complaint by interested parties or following an alert. 3. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: Where an administrative infringement is detected during the verification, administrative criminal proceedings shall be initiated. 4. A new para is being created. 9. In the event of an administrative infringement, a compulsory administrative measure under Chapter Nine may be applied. 5. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10. 6. The creation of para. 11: In the case of a Member State of the European Union or a Member State of the European Union, the competent authority of the Member State of the European Union shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof. 62 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 shall be carried out as appropriate for joint investigations and joint implementing measures and shall participate in them, except for the persons referred to in para. 1 and members or authorised representatives of the supervisory authority of the Member State concerned. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 12a: Art. 12a. (1) On request, the controller and the processor shall assist the Commission in carrying out its tasks and powers. (2) When in the exercise of the powers of the Committee on Art. The controller or processor's obligation to protect professional secrecy or any other obligation to keep a secret arising from a law may be infringed by Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The controller or processor shall refuse to provide or access only to information protected as a secret. (3) Where the information contains data representing classified information, the order of access under the Classified Information Protection Act shall apply. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Stoyanov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 is created. The President, the members of the Commission and the staff of the administration appointed by the employment service shall be entitled, on an annual basis, to representative clothing of up to two minimum salaries, with the funds provided by the Commission's budget. The individual amount of funds shall be determined by the Chair of the Commission under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Procedure under art. 9, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u56	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 9, the Commission's version of § 10 and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 11. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The proposals are adopted, with which the editorials of the paragraphs are adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u57	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. (1) The Commission shall carry out accreditation of certification bodies in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the basis of requirements laid down by it or by the European Data Protection Committee. (2) The accreditation shall be issued according to art. 43 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 for a period of 5 years and may be renewed. (3) The Commission shall withdraw the accreditation of a certification body where the accreditation conditions are not met or where the actions taken by the certifying authority violate that law or Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (4) The decisions of the Board for withdrawal of accreditation under para. 3 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The conditions, including the requirements of para. 1 and the procedure for accreditation and revocation of accreditation shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Commission. The Regulation shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (6) The criteria, mechanisms and procedures for certification, seals and markings shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Commission. The regulation is promulgated in the Official Journal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 14a: Art. 14a. (1) The Commission shall approve draft codes of conduct by sectors and areas of activity under art. 40 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. The terms, procedures and criteria for the approval of the codes of conduct shall be laid down by the rules of procedure of art. 9, para. 2. (2) The Commission shall carry out accreditation of bodies for the monitoring of approved codes of conduct under para. 1 in accordance with art. 41 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (3) The requirements for accreditation under para. 2 and the procedure for accreditation and revocation of accreditation shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Commission. The Regulation shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (4) The Commission shall withdraw the accreditation of an authority to monitor approved codes of conduct where the accreditation requirements are not met or where the action taken by the body violates that law or Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (5) The decisions of the Board for withdrawal of accreditation under para. 4 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... A new article shall be created. 15: Art. 15. (1) The Commission shall keep the following public registers: 1. a register of controllers and processors who have designated data protection officials; 2. a register of accredited under art. 14 certification bodies; 3. Register of Codes of Conduct under art. 40 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (2) The Commission shall keep the following registers which are not public: 1. a register of infringements of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and of that law, as well as of measures taken in accordance with the exercise of the powers under art. 58 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; 2. a register of notifications of personal data breaches under art. 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and under art. 67. (3) The order for the establishment and maintenance of the registers under para. 1 and 2 and access to them shall be determined under the Law on Electronic Governance and their content by the Rules of Procedure under art. 9, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u58	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for § 11, which becomes § 12; and the creation of a new § 13, the editing of § 12, which becomes § 14. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u59	Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Stoyanov, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... A new article shall be created. 16: Art. 16. (1) The conditions and procedures for conducting training under art. 10, para. 2, p. 6 shall be determined by the rules of art. 9, para. 2. (2) The Commission shall issue a certificate to the persons who have undergone training under para. 1 after a successful exam. The certificate shall be issued for a period of three years. After the expiry of the term referred to in the second sentence, a certificate shall be renewed after a successful examination under conditions and in accordance with the rules of art. 9, para. 2. (3) The existence of a certificate under para. 2 may not be a mandatory condition for the appointment or performance of the functions of a data protection officer. (4) For training under para. 1 fees shall be charged, except in the case of training organised and carried out at the initiative of the Commission. Fees shall be determined by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the committee. The Commission proposes to create new § 16 ......... 16........................................... The name of Chapter 3 shall be amended as follows: "Inspect the Supreme Judicial Council." § 17. Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. (1) The Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, hereinafter referred to as the Inspectorate of the Inspectorate, shall supervise and ensure compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, this law and the legal acts in the field of personal data protection in the processing of personal data by: 1. a court in the performance of its functions as a judicial authority; and 2. the prosecution and the investigating authorities in the performance of their functions as judicial bodies for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the execution of penalties. (2) The order for carrying out the activity under para. 1, including for carrying out checks and for examining the proceedings before the inspectorate shall be determined by the rules of art. 55, para. 8 of the Law on the Judiciary. (3) In carrying out the supervision under para. 1 shall apply and art. 12a........................................................................................................... § 18. Article 17a is amended as follows: Art. 17a. (1) In carrying out the supervision of the processing of personal data by the court in the performance of its functions as a judicial authority, except in the case of the processing of personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 Inspectorate: 1. perform the tasks referred to in Article 1. 57, paragraph 1, points (a) and (b) of Article 57 (1) and paragraphs 2 and 3 of Regulation (EU) 2018/8 of the European Parliament and of the Council; 2. exercise the powers under art. 58, paragraph 1, points (a) and (b) and (d) and (e) of paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) of paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) 2018/4 of the European Parliament and of the Council; 3. apply respectively the list drawn up by the Commission pursuant to art. 35 (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 as regards the requirement to assess the impact on data protection; 4. shall refer to the court for infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (2) In addition to the tasks and powers under para. 1, Inspectorate: 1. participate in international cooperation with other personal data protection authorities and international personal data protection organisations; 2. provide guidance, issue guidelines, recommendations and best practices in relation to the protection of personal data. (3) In carrying out the supervision of the processing of personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 of the Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in the performance of their duties as judicial bodies, the Inspectorate shall carry out the tasks and exercise the powers under Chapter Eight. § 19. Article 17b is amended as follows: Art. 17b. (1) The Inspectorate shall carry out prior consultations: 1. in the cases referred to in Article 1. 36 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; 2. when processing personal data in the performance of a task in the public interest; in this case the inspectorate may authorise the processing before the expiry of the period under art. 36 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. (2) Preliminary consultations shall be carried out according to art. 36 (2) and (3) of Regulation (EU) § 20. Article 18 is amended as follows: Art. 18. (1) In carrying out the supervision under art. 17, para. 1 The inspectorate shall carry out checks provided for in its annual programme or by signals. A publication in the mass media shall also be accepted as an alert. (2) The inspection shall be carried out by the Chief Inspector or by an inspector assisted by experts on the basis of an order of the Chief Inspector. § 21. Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. (1) The verification shall end with an act of results reflecting the findings made and recommendations shall be made where necessary. (2) Where the verification reveals a breach of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and that law, depending on the nature and extent of the infringement, the measures referred to in art. 58, paragraph 2 (a) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 and/or administrative penalties shall be imposed in accordance with art. 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Chapter 9. (3) The measures referred to in art. 58, paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) of Article 58, point (c) and point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (2) of that Regulation shall apply. 80, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 shall apply by a decision of the Inspectorate on a proposal from ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 20 is amended as follows: Art. 20. The Chief Inspector, inspectors and judicial officers of the Inspectorate's Administration shall be obliged not to disclose and take advantage of any information protected by law which has become known to them in carrying out their activities under this law until the expiry of the period for its protection. § 23. Article 21 is amended as follows: Art. 21. (1) The Inspectorate shall keep the following registers which are not public: 1. a register of infringements of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and of that law, as well as of measures taken in accordance with the exercise of the powers under art. point (a) of Article 58 (2) (a) (ii) (ii) of Regulation (EU) Butane is replaced by the following: 2. a register of notifications of personal data breaches under art. 33 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and under art. 67. (2) The order for the establishment and maintenance of the registers under para. 1 and access to them shall be determined under the Law on Electronic Governance and their content by the Rules of Procedure under art. 55, para. 8 of the Judicial Law. § 24. Articles 22 and 22a shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u60	Thank you. Are there any statements on the many paragraphs Mr. Tsvetanov read? There are no speeches. We are voting for the creation of a new § 15, as well as the new paragraphs 16 to 24. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposal and the texts of the paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u61	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Chapter 4 with art. 23 " 25" is hereby repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Chapter 4 shall be created with art. 25a "25o: General rules for the processing of personal data. Specific cases of processing of personal data. Art. 25a. Where personal data are provided by the data subject to an administrator or processor without a legal basis under art. Article 6 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or contrary to the principles laid down in Article 6 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 5 of that Regulation, within one month of the knowledge of the controller or processor, the controller or processor shall return them, and if this is impossible or requires disproportionate effort, delete or destroy them. The deletion and destruction shall be documented. Art. 25b. The controller and processor shall notify the Commission of the names, the single civilian number or the personal number of a foreigner or any other equivalent identifier and of the contact details of the data protection officer and of any subsequent changes thereto. The form and content of the notification and the procedure for its submission shall be determined by the rules of art. 9, para. 2. Art. 25c. The processing of data by a data subject, a person not over 14 years on the basis of an agreement within the meaning of art. 4 t. 11 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, including in cases of direct provision of information society services within the meaning of art. 1, para. 3 of the Ecommerce Act is lawful only if consent is given by the parent exercising parental rights or by the data subject's guardian. Art. 25 years. An administrator or a processor may copy an identity document, a driving licence or a residence document only if it is provided for by law. Art. 25e. (1) The controller or processor shall adopt and apply rules for the large-scale processing of personal data or for the systematic monitoring of publicly available areas, including by video surveillance, by introducing appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects. The rules for systematic large-scale monitoring of publicly accessible areas shall contain the legal bases and objectives for the establishment of a surveillance system, the territorial scope of surveillance and the means of monitoring, the period of storage of information records and their deletion, the right of access by the monitored persons, the information to the public about the monitoring carried out, as well as restrictions on access to information to third parties. (2) The Commission shall give guidance to administrators and processors in the performance of their obligation under para. 1 that publishes on your website. Art. 25f. (1) The controller or processor may process personal data of deceased persons only if there is a legal basis for it. In such cases, the controller or processor shall take appropriate measures to avoid adversely affecting the rights and freedoms of other persons or the public interest. (2) The administrator shall, upon request, provide access to personal data of a deceased person, including a copy thereof, to his heirs or other persons of legal interest. Art. 25g. (1) Free public access to information containing a single civil number or a private number of a foreigner shall not be permitted unless a law provides otherwise. (2) Administrators providing services by electronic means shall take appropriate technical and organisational measures which do not allow the single civil number or the personal number of a foreigner to be the only means of identifying the consumer when providing remote access to the relevant service. (3) For the purposes of providing administrative services electronically under the terms of the Law on Electronic Governance, the controller shall enable the data subject to be identified by order provided for by law. Art. 25z. (1) The processing of personal data for journalistic purposes, as well as academic, artistic or literary expression, shall be lawful where it is carried out for the exercise of freedom of expression and the right to information, in respect of privacy. (2) In the case of disclosure by transmission, dissemination or other means in which personal data collected for the purposes of para. 1 shall become accessible, the balance between freedom of expression and the right to information and the right to the protection of personal data shall be assessed on the basis of the following criteria insofar as they are relevant: 1. the nature of the personal data; 2. the impact that disclosure of personal data or their public disclosure would have on the privacy of the data subject and its good name; 3. the circumstances under which the personal data have become known to the controller; 4. the nature and nature of the statement by which the rights under para. 1; 5. the importance of disclosure of personal data or their public disclosure to clarify a matter of public interest; 6. reporting whether the data subject is a person who holds a position under art. 6 of the Law on the Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, or is a person who, because of the nature of his or her activity or role in public life, has reduced the protection of his or her privacy, or whose actions have an impact on society; 7. reporting whether the data subject has contributed to disclosure of his or her personal data and/or information about his or her personal and family life; 8. the purpose, content, form and effect of the statement by which the rights under para. 1; 9. the compliance of the statement by which the rights under para. 1, with the fundamental rights of citizens; 10. other circumstances relevant to the case. (3) When processing personal data for the purposes of para. 1: 1. shall not apply Art. 1. 6, 9, 10, 30, 34 and Chapter 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as art. 25c; 2. the controller or processor may refuse the full or partial exercise of the rights of the data subjects under art. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 22 December 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). (4) The exercise of the powers of the Committee on Art. 58 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 shall not lead to disclosure of the secret of the source of information. (5) When processing personal data for the purpose of creating a photographic or audio-visual work, by filming a person in the course of his or her public activity, shall not apply art. Art. 6, Art. Art. 12 - 21, Art. Art. 30, Art. 34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Art. 25th. (1) An employer or appointing authority shall, as a personal data controller, adopt rules and procedures in: 1. use of a system for reporting infringements; 2. restrictions on the use of intra-corporate resources; 3. introduction of systems for control of access, working time and labour discipline. (2) The rules and procedures under para. 1 contain information on the scope, obligations and methods of their application in practice. They shall take into account the activity of the employer or the appointing authority and the related nature of the work and shall not restrict the rights of data subjects under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and under that law. (3) Workers and employees shall be notified of the rules and procedures under para. 1. Art. 25k. (1) An employer or appointing authority shall, as a personal data controller, set a period for the storage of personal data to participants in recruitment and selection procedures that may not be longer than 6 months, unless the applicant has given his consent for storage for a longer period. After that period, the employer or the appointing authority shall delete or destroy the documents stored is personal data unless a special law provides otherwise. (2) When in procedure under para. 1 the employer or the appointing authority has requested that original or notarized copies of documents be submitted which certify the physical and mental fitness of the applicant, the necessary qualification and internship for the post held, be returned to the data subject who has not been approved for appointment within 6 months of the final completion of the procedure, unless a special law provides otherwise. Art. 25L. Processing of personal data for the purposes of the National Archive Fund of the Republic of Bulgaria is processing in the public interest. In these cases, no art. 15, 16, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Art. 25 meters. The processing of personal data for statistical purposes shall not apply art. 15, 16, 18 and 21 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Art. 25n. Personal data originally collected for another purpose may be processed for the purposes of the National Archive Fund, for the purposes of scientific or historical research or statistical purposes. In such cases, the controller shall apply appropriate technical and organisational measures which ensure the rights and freedoms of the data subject in accordance with art. 89 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Art. 25o. The processing of personal data for humanitarian purposes by public authorities or humanitarian organisations, as well as the handling of disasters within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, is lawful. In this case, no art. Art. 12, Art. 21, Art. 34 of Regulation (EU) are to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in accordance with the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Chapter 5 with art. Art. 26, Art. 28 " 34b" and Chapter 6 with art. Thirty-six. Thirty-six. Thirty-six.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u62	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Come in for a statement, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u63	Madam President, honourable Members! My speech will be very brief and it is related to the newly created art. 25h, which concerns the activities of both the journalistic guild and the academic field, artistic and literary activities. This newly created article sets criteria for subjectivism. My assessment is that from now on we must be particularly careful in implementing and implementing this law, especially in the field of journalism. Based on the experience I have, some of the criteria are very general and subjective judgement in them by the authorities that will apply the Law can be brought to a point where people's right to information is limited, people's right to access information and thus the right to express the majority of society. I would like, from now on, when we examine this article, to announce my attitude to a future law, because there is a reference here to the Law on the Prevention and Withdrawal of Legally Acquired Property for the Circle of People, which covers this law. The exclusion of the circle of people I see in a future bill will result in a significant part of the people that society is interested in being illegally protected. I'm talking about the councillors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u64	Thank you to Mr. Milko Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? Are there any other statements? I won't. We vote on the Commission's version of § 13, which becomes § 25; we vote on the Commission's version of § 14, which becomes § 26 and the Commission's version of § 15, which becomes § 27. They voted 93 MPs: 83, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u65	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The name of Chapter 7 is amended as follows: "Exercise the rights of data subjects. Legal remedies. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 7 shall be inserted in Chapter 7. 37a, 37b and 37c: Art. 37a. (1) The controller or processor may refuse the full or partial exercise of the rights of the data subjects under art. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 22 December 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 where the exercise of rights or the performance of the obligation would pose a risk to: 1. national security; 2. defence; 3. public order and security; 4. the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties imposed, including the prevention and prevention of threats to public policy and security; 5. other important objectives of broad public interest and, in particular, important economic or financial interest, including monetary, budgetary and tax matters, public health and social security; 6. the protection of the independence of the judiciary and judicial proceedings; 7. the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of infringements of ethical codes in regulated professions; 8. the protection of the data subject or of the rights and freedoms of other persons; 9. the execution of civil lawsuits. (2) The conditions and procedure for applying para. 1 shall be determined by law and in accordance with art. 23 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. Art. 37b. (1) The data subject shall exercise the rights under art. The controller shall, by written application to the controller of personal data or by any other means specified by the controller, submit a written application to the controller. (2) An application may also be submitted electronically under the terms of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services, the Law on Electronic Governance and the Law on Electronic Identification. (3) An application may also be submitted by means of actions in the user interface of the information system that processes the data after the person has been identified with the means of identification related to the information system. Art. 37c. (1) The application under art. 37b contains: 1. name, address, single civil number or personal number of a foreigner or other equivalent identifier, or other identity of the natural person designated by the administrator in relation to his activity; 2. a description of the request; 3. the preferred form for obtaining information in the exercise of the rights under art. 15 ".22 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679; 4. Signature, date of application and address for correspondence. (2) When submitting an application by an authorised person to the application, the request shall also apply. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the event of a breach of its rights under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and under that law, the data subject shall be entitled to refer the Commission within 6 months of the knowledge of the infringement, but not later than two years after it has been committed. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Commission shall inform the complainant of the progress made in the examination of the complaint or of the outcome thereof within three months of its referral. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes a new para. 3 and is amended as follows: The Commission shall decide by decision and may apply the measures referred to in Article 3. 58, paragraph 2 (a) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 and in addition to these measures or instead to impose administrative punishment in accordance with art. 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as Chapter 9. 4. A new para is being created. 4. Where the appeal is clearly unfounded or excessive, the appeal may be left without consideration by a decision of the Commission. 5. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6 and are amended as follows: The Commission shall send a copy of its decision and the data subject. (6) In the cases under para. 1 when personal data are processed for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1, the Commission's decision contains only a finding on the legality of the processing. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There aren't any. We vote on the Commission's version of § 16, which becomes § 28; we vote on the Commission's version of § 17, which becomes § 29, and the Commission's version of § 18, which becomes § 30. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u67	The Commission proposes to create new § 31 and 32: ........................ 31...................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 38a: Art. 38a. (1) The appeal to the Commission may be lodged by letter, fax or electronic means under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. (2) No anonymous complaints shall be dealt with, as well as complaints not signed by the sender or his representative by law or authority. § 32. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 38b - 38d: Art. 38b. (1) In the event of breach of its rights under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and under this law in the processing of personal data by the court in the exercise of its functions as a judicial authority and by the prosecution and investigation bodies in the performance of their functions as judicial authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the execution of penalties, the data subject shall have the right to lodge a complaint with the inspector within 6 months of the knowledge of the infringement, but no later than two years after it has been committed. (2) In the cases under para. Article 1 shall apply accordingly. 38a. Art. 38c. (1) The complaint under art. 38b, para. 1 shall be examined by an inspector established on the basis of random selection by the Chief Inspector. (2) Data relevant to the alleged infringement shall be collected during the examination of the complaint, including information from the controller or processor. (3) The applicant shall be informed of the progress in the examination of the complaint or of the outcome thereof within three months of the request of the inspectorate. (4) Where the appeal is unfounded, the inspector shall rule by a decision subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of receipt. (5) Where the appeal is justified, the inspectorate shall decide on a proposal from the inspector. The decision shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its receipt. (6) Where the complaint is clearly unfounded or excessive, the inspector may leave it without consideration. Art. 38. (1) When in proceedings under art. 38c is found to be infringement of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and that law, depending on the nature and extent of the infringement, the measures under art. 58, paragraph 2 (a) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 and/or administrative penalties shall be imposed in accordance with art. 83 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and Chapter 9 thereof. (2) The measures referred to in art. 58, paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) of Article 58, point (c) and point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, point (c) of Article 4 (2) of that Regulation shall apply. 80, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 shall apply by a decision of the inspector on a proposal from the inspector who has examined the complaint under The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In breach of its rights under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and under that law, the data subject may appeal actions and acts of the controller and processor before the court under the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In para. 2 the words "the physical person' shall be replaced by "the data subject' and finally added to "the processor'. 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The data subject may not refer to the court where there is pending proceedings before the Commission for the same infringement or its decision on the same infringement is appealed and there is no decision of the court entered into force. At the request of the data subject or of the court, the Commission shall certify the absence of pending proceedings before the data subject in the same dispute. 5. A new para is being created. 5. In the case of pending proceedings in front of the inspectorate, paragraph 4 shall apply. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 34: ................. A new article shall be created. 40: Art. 40. When the decision under art. 38, para. 3 shall be adopted in accordance with a binding decision of the European Data Protection Committee, and shall apply accordingly. 263 and 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I will put the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs first, 31 and 32, with a text according to the Commission's proposal; the version proposed by the Commission in § 19, which becomes § 33, and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20, which becomes § 34. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u69	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 21 but due to the requirements of art. 50, para. 1 of Decree 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts suggests that § 21 be divided into separate paragraphs from § 35 to § 41 by the following wording: .............................................................................. The name of Chapter Eight shall be amended as follows:? Rules on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the execution of penalties, including the prevention of threats to public policy and security and their prevention. § 36. In Chapter 8 before Article 8. 42 a name is created "Section I "General provisions " is created. § 37. Article 42 is amended as follows: Art. 42. (1) The rules of this Chapter shall apply to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties, including the prevention and prevention of threats to public policy and security. (2) Personal data collected for the purposes of para. 1 shall not be processed for other purposes unless the law of the European Union or the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria provides otherwise. (3) When the competent authorities under para. 1 process personal data for purposes other than those under para. 1 as well as in the cases under para. Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the relevant provisions of that law which introduce implementing measures shall apply. (4) Competent authorities under para. 1 are state authorities having powers to prevent, investigate, detect or prosecute criminal offences or the execution of penalties, including the prevention and prevention of threats to public security. (5) Unless a law provides otherwise, an administrator within the meaning of this Chapter in the processing of personal data for the purposes of para. 1 is a competent authority under para. 4 or the relevant administrative structure, part of which is that body, which, independently or jointly with other bodies, determines the purposes and means of processing personal data. § 38. Article 42a is repealed. § 39. Article 43 is amended as follows: Art. 43. The rules of this Chapter shall apply to the processing of personal data in whole or in part by automatic means, as well as to the processing by other means of personal data which form part of a personal data repository or are intended to form part of such a register. § 40. Article 8 shall be inserted in Chapter 8. 44 s 52: Art. 44. The exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union where such exchange is required by European Union law or by the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not be restricted or prohibited for reasons relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. Art. 45. (1) When processing personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 personal data must: 1. are processed legally and in good faith; 2. are collected for specific, explicit and legitimate purposes and not to be processed in a manner incompatible with those objectives; 3. be appropriate, relevant and not exceed what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which the data are processed; 4. are accurate and, where necessary, kept up-to-date; all necessary measures must be taken to ensure the timely deletion or correction of inaccurate personal data, taking into account the purposes for which they are processed; 5. shall be kept in a form which allows the identification of the data subject for a period not exceeding the period required for the purposes for which they are processed; 6. shall be processed in such a way as to ensure an appropriate level of personal data security, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage by applying appropriate technical or organisational measures. (2) Processing of personal data by an administrator who has initially collected them or by another administrator for any of the purposes under art. 42, para. 1 other than the purpose for which personal data are collected is authorised, provided that: 1. the administrator is authorised to process personal data for such purpose in accordance with European Union law or the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, and 2. processing is necessary and proportionate to this different objective in accordance with European Union law or with the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The processing by the administrator under para. 2 may include back-up in the public interest, scientific, statistical or historical use of the data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 in the application of appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of the data subject. (4) The administrator shall be responsible for compliance with para. 1, 2 and 3, and he must be able to prove it. Art. 46. (1) Where the time limits for the deletion of personal data or for periodic verification of the need to store them are not legally established, they shall be determined by the administrator. (2) The carrying out of a periodic check under para. 1 shall be documented and the decision to continue the storage of the data shall be reasoned. Art. 47. The controller shall, where applicable and as far as possible, make a clear distinction between the personal data of different categories of data subjects, for example: 1. persons for whom there is strong reason to believe that they have committed or will commit a crime; 2. persons convicted of a crime; 3. persons who have suffered from a crime, or persons to whom certain facts give reason to believe that they may have suffered from a crime, and 4. other third parties in relation to a crime, such as persons who may be called upon to testify in criminal investigations or in criminal proceedings, persons who may provide information on crimes or related persons. Art. 48. (1) The competent authority shall, as far as possible, distinguish between personal data based on facts and personal data based on personal assessments. (2) The competent authority shall ensure that personal data which are inaccurate, incomplete or no longer relevant are not transmitted. For this purpose, each competent authority shall, as far as possible, verify the quality of personal data prior to their transmission. As far as possible, any transfer of personal data shall add the necessary information enabling the receiving competent authority to assess the degree of accuracy, completeness and reliability of personal data and to what extent they are relevant. (3) Where the personal data transmitted are inaccurate or unlawful, the recipient shall be informed without delay. In that case, the transmitting competent authority and the recipient shall correct, delete or restrict the processing of personal data. Art. 49. Processing of personal data is lawful where necessary for the exercise of powers by a competent authority for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 and provided for in the law of the European Union or in a regulatory act setting out the purposes of the processing and categories of personal data to be processed. Art. 50. (1) Where the law of the European Union or the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria applicable to the transmitting competent authority provides for specific conditions for the processing of personal data, the authority shall inform the recipient of those conditions and of its obligation to comply with them. (2) The transfer of personal data to recipients in other Member States of the European Union or to agencies, offices and bodies of the European Union established under Chapters 4 and 5 of Title V of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be carried out under the same conditions as applied under such transmission in the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 51. (1) The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or philosophical beliefs, membership in professional unions, the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of unique identification of the natural person, data relating to the health or sexual life and sexual orientation of the person is permitted, where absolutely necessary, adequate guarantees exist for the rights and freedoms of the data subject and are provided for in the law of the European Union or in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) When processing under para. 1 is not provided for in the law of the European Union or in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria, the data under para. 1 may be processed where absolutely necessary, there are appropriate safeguards for the rights and freedoms of the data subject and: 1. processing is for the protection of vital interests of the data subject or of another natural person or 2. if the processing concerns data clearly made public by the data subject. (3) When processing data under para. 1 Appropriate measures and guarantees for the non-discrimination of natural persons shall apply. Art. 52. (1) A decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, which gives rise to adverse legal effects on the data subject or substantially affects him, shall be prohibited, except where it is provided for in European Union law or in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria and appropriate safeguards are provided for the rights and freedoms of the data subject, at least human interference in the decision of the controller concerned. (2) The decisions under para. 1 may not be based on the categories of personal data under art. 51, para. 1 unless appropriate measures are put in place to protect the rights and freedoms and legitimate interests of the data subject. (3) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 the administrator shall carry out an impact assessment under art. 64. (4) The profiling which leads to discrimination of natural persons on the basis of the categories of personal data under art. 51, para. 1. (5) The data subject shall have the right to obtain information about the processing under para. 1, to express his opinion, to get an explanation for the decision under para. 1 taken as a result of such processing, as well as to appeal the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u70	Hey, guys, any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal by the Commission § 21 by importer to be divided into separate paragraphs 35 to 41 including, with the wording of paragraphs 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 40 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 83 Members of the Parliament: For.. 82, none The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u71	............................................................................. In Chapter Eight, Sections II "V" with Article 8 shall be created. 53 - 83: "Department II" Rights of the data subject Art. 53. (1) The administrator shall take the necessary measures to provide the data subject with the information under art. 54 and for correspondence with him in connection with art. 52, para. Art. 5, art. 55 - 58 and 68 on the processing of personal data in a concise, understandable and easily accessible form, using a clear and simple language. The administrator shall provide the information in the manner in which the request is made. Where this is impossible or requires disproportionate efforts, the information shall be provided in another appropriate way, including by electronic means. (2) The administrator shall facilitate the exercise of the rights of the data subject under art. 52, para. Art. 5 and art. 55.. 58. (3) The controller shall respond to the request of the data subject or inform him in writing of the actions taken in relation to his request within two months of receipt of the request. The period may be extended by another month where this is necessary due to the complexity or number of requests. (4) The information referred to in art. 54 and correspondence or actions taken under art. 52, para. Art. 5, art. 55 " 58 and 68" are free. Where requests from a data subject are clearly unfounded or excessive, in particular due to its re-apprehension, the controller may: 1. charge a fee corresponding to the administrative costs of providing information or for correspondence with the data subject or for taking action on the request; or 2. refuses to take action on the request. (5) The administrator shall bear the burden of proving the clearly unfounded or excessive nature of the request. (6) Where the administrator has reasonable doubts as to the identity of the natural person who submits a request under art. 55 or 56, it may request additional information necessary to confirm the identity of the data subject. The term under para. 3 shall begin to run from receipt of this additional information. Art. 54. (1) The controller shall provide the data subject with at least the following information: 1. the data identifying the administrator and the contact details thereof; 2. the contact details of the data protection officer, where applicable; 3. the purposes for which personal data are processed; 4. the right of complaint to the Commission, respectively to the inspectorate and their contact details; 5. the right to require the controller to access the correction, addition or deletion of personal data and to restrict the processing of personal data relating to the data subject; 6. the possibility of refusal under para. Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 3, Art. 55, para. Art. 3 and 4 and art. 56, para. 6 and 7 to exercise its rights through the Commission, respectively through the Inspectorate. (2) Except the information under para. 1 at the request of the data subject or on its own initiative, the controller shall provide the data subject, in specific cases and in order to enable him to exercise his rights, with the following additional information: 1. the legal basis for the processing; 2. the period for which personal data will be stored and, if this is not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; 3. where applicable, recipients or categories of recipients of personal data, including in third countries or international organisations; 4. where necessary, and other additional information, in particular where personal data have been collected without the data subject's knowledge. (3) The administrator may delay or refuse, in whole or in part, the provision of the information under para. 2, where necessary to: 1. the obstruction of official or legally regulated checks, investigations or procedures shall not be allowed; 2. there shall be no adverse effect on the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties; 3. protect public order and security; 4. protect national security; 5. protect the rights and freedoms of others. (4) After dropping a circumstance under para. 3 The administrator shall provide the requested information without delay within the period referred to in Article 3. 53, para. 3. (5) In the case of decision under para. 3 The administrator shall take into account the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned. Art. 55. (1) The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the controller confirmation of whether personal data concerning him or her are processed and, if so, to obtain access to them, as well as information on: 1. the circumstances under art. 54, para. 1, t. 3 " 5 " and para. 2, p. 1 2. the categories of personal data processed; 3. personal data which are in the process of processing and any available information on their origin, unless it is protected by a secret law. (2) The administrator shall provide the information referred to in paragraph 1 within the period referred to in Article 1. 53, para. 3. (3) The right of access to the data and information under para. 1 may be limited in whole or in part, taking into account the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned in the cases referred to in art. 54, para. 3. In these cases, art. 54, para. 4. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The administrator shall inform in writing within the period referred to in Article 3. 53, para. 3 the data subject for any refusal of access or restriction of access and for the reasons therefor. This information may not be provided where its provision would hinder the achievement of any of the objectives under art. 54, para. 3. The controller shall inform the data subject of his right of appeal to the Commission, to the inspectorate, respectively, or to seek judicial protection. (5) The administrator shall document the factual or legal grounds for the decision. That information shall be made available to the Commission, respectively to the inspectorate. Art. 56. (1) The data subject shall have the right to request the controller to correct inaccurate personal data relating to him. Taking into account the purpose of the processing, the data subject shall be entitled to request that incomplete personal data be supplemented, including by providing an additional application. (2) The administrator under para. 1 is obliged to delete the personal data and the data subject has the right to request the controller to delete the personal data that concern him when the processing violates the provisions of art. 45, 49 or 51 or where personal data must be deleted in order to comply with the legal obligation of the controller. (3) The administrator shall correct or supplement the data under para. 1, or delete the data in the cases under para. 2 within the term referred to in art. 53, para. 3. (4) The controller shall restrict the processing of personal data without erasing them where: 1. the accuracy of the personal data is contested by the data subject and this cannot be verified, or 2. personal data must be retained for evidence purposes. (5) In the cases under para. 4 t. 1 The controller shall inform the data subject before removing the restriction of processing. (6) Correcting, supplementing, erasing or limiting the processing of personal data may be refused, taking into account the fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the natural person concerned, in the cases referred to in art. 54, para. 3. In these cases, art. 54, para. 4. The controller shall inform the data subject in writing of the refusal and of the reasons for the refusal within the period referred to in Article. 53, para. 3. (7) The administrator may not inform the data subject of the refusal under para. 6 in the cases referred to in art. 54, para. Art. 3, applying respectively 54, para. 4 and 5. (8) The controller shall inform the data subject of his right of appeal to the Commission, to the inspectorate and to seek judicial protection. (9) The administrator shall notify the competent authority from which the incorrect personal data have been received of their correction. (10) Where personal data are corrected, supplemented, deleted, or processed, the controller shall inform their recipients accordingly, who shall correct, supplement, delete or restrict their processing. Art. 57. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 54, para. Art. 3, Art. 55, para. Art. 3 and 4 and art. 56, para. 6 and 7 data subjects may exercise their rights through the Commission, respectively through the inspectorate. In such cases, the committee, the inspectorate respectively, shall verify the legality of the refusal. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The Commission, the inspectorate respectively, shall inform the data subject at least of the fact that all necessary checks or references have been carried out and of his right to seek judicial protection. Art. 58. The exercise of the rights under art. 54, 55 and 56, where personal data are contained in a judgment, document or material in a case drawn up in criminal proceedings, shall be without prejudice and shall not be contrary to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u72	Colleagues, before I announce an interruption, I will read to you the following message: a charity photo exhibition will be opened in the Club of the National Representative. In the eastern couloir will be given the start of the Week to prevent cervical cancer. The initiative shall be carried out under the patronage of the Committee on Health. Bulgaria celebrates for the 12th consecutive time the Week for prevention of cervical cancer. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. We will continue later with the discussions on the remaining text of Paragraph 41. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u73	We'll continue our work. Here you go, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u74	"Department III" Personal data controller and processor Art. 59. (1) The controller of personal data, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing and the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, shall apply appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing is carried out in accordance with that law. Those measures shall be reviewed and updated as necessary. (2) Where this is proportional to processing activities, the measures under para. 1 shall include the application by the controller of appropriate data protection policies. (3) By measures under para. 1 The controller shall ensure the protection of personal data at the design stage, taking into account the achievements of technical progress, the cost of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing of personal data, as well as the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons in processing. The measures shall comply with the requirements of art. 45, are planned at the time of determining the means of processing personal data and shall be applied during the processing itself. The measures may include pseudonymisation, data minimization and the introduction of necessary safeguards in the process of processing personal data. (4) By measures under para. 1 The controller shall ensure that only personal data necessary for each specific purpose of processing are processed by default. This obligation concerns the volume of personal data collected, the degree of processing, the duration of their storage and their accessibility. Such measures shall ensure that, by default, the personal data are not accessible to an unlimited number of natural persons without the intervention of the natural person. Art. 60. (1) Where two or more personal data controllers jointly define the purposes and means of processing, they shall be joint controllers. (2) the joint administrators under para. 1 define in a transparent manner their rights and obligations under this Chapter, in particular those relating to the exercise of the rights of the data subject and to the provision of information under art. 54 by common rules, except where their rights and obligations are laid down in the law of the European Union or in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. The rules shall define the contact point for data subjects and may indicate which of them acts as a single contact point. (3) Regardless of what is defined in the rules of para. 1, the data subject may exercise his or her rights under this Chapter against any of the administrators under para. 1. Art. 61. (1) A controller of personal data may entrust the processing of personal data on his behalf only to processors who provide sufficient guarantees that they will apply appropriate technical and organisational measures in such a way that the processing meets the requirements of this Chapter and ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject. (2) The processor shall not include in the processing any other processor other personal data without the prior specific or general written permission of the administrator under para. 1. In the case of a general written authorisation, the processor shall inform the controller of any planned changes to include or replace other processors, and the controller may object to such changes. (3) The processing by the processor shall be governed by a contract or other legal act under European Union law or by the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria which binds the processor to the controller under para. 1 and regulates the subject matter and duration of the processing, nature and purpose of the processing, type of personal data and categories of data subjects, obligations and rights of the controller. That contract or other legal act provides, in particular, that the processor: 1. act only on the direction of the administrator; 2. ensure that persons authorised to process personal data have undertaken a confidentiality obligation or are required by law to comply with confidentiality; 3. assist the controller by all appropriate means to ensure compliance with the rights of the data subject; 4. at the choice of the administrator deletes or returns to the controller all personal data after the completion of the provision of data processing services and deletes existing copies unless the law of the European Union or the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria requires the storage of personal data; 5. provide the administrator with all the information necessary to demonstrate compliance with this Article; 6. comply with the conditions under point 6. 1.. 5 and under para. 2 to include other processing personal data. (4) The contract or other legal act referred to in para. 3 shall be drawn up in writing, including in electronic form. (5) Where a processor determines, in breach of the rules of that Chapter, the purposes and means of processing, it shall be considered to be the controller of personal data in respect of that processing. (6) The processor and any person acting under his authority or under the direction of the administrator under para. 1 which has access to personal data only processes this data at the direction of the controller, except where the conditions and procedures for processing are laid down in the law of the European Union or in the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. Art. 62. (1) The controller shall maintain a register with the categories of personal data processing activities containing: 1. the name and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, of the joint administrators and of the data protection officer; 2. the purposes of the processing of personal data; 3. the categories of recipients to which personal data are or will be disclosed, including recipients in third countries or international organisations; 4. a description of the categories of data subjects and categories of personal data; 5. where applicable, information on whether profiling is carried out; 6. where applicable, the categories of transfer of personal data to a third country or international organisation; 7. the legal basis for the processing operation, including the transmission of data to which the personal data are intended; 8. where possible, the time limits provided for the deletion of the different categories of personal data; 9. where possible, a general description of the technical and organisational security measures under art. 66. (2) The processor shall maintain a register of categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of an administrator containing: 1. the name and contact details of the processor or processor, of each controller of personal data on whose behalf the processor acts and of the data protection officer, where applicable; 2. the categories of processing of personal data carried out on behalf of each administrator; 3. where applicable, the transfer of personal data to a third country or to an international organisation where explicit instructions are provided by the administrator, including the name of the third country or international organisation; 4. where possible, a general description of the technical and organisational security measures under art. 66. (3) The Registers under para. 1 and 2 shall be maintained in writing, including in electronic format. (4) On request, the controller and the processor shall provide access to the registers of the Commission, respectively to the inspectorate. Art. 63. (1) System logs (logs) shall be kept in automated processing systems maintained by the controller and processor for at least the following processing operations, collection, change, consultation, disclosure including transmission, combination and deletion. (2) In the case of consultation or disclosure of the logs under para. 1 must enable the establishment of the basis, date and time of such operations and, as far as possible, the identification of the person who made the reference or disclosed the personal data and data identifying the recipients of such personal data. (3) The Diaries under para. 1 shall only be used to verify the lawfulness of the processing, to self-control, to ensure the integrity and security of personal data and criminal proceedings. (4) The controller of personal data shall set appropriate storage periods, including backup of the diaries under para. 1. (5) On request, the controller and the processor shall provide the diaries under para. 1 of the committee, respectively the inspectorate. Art. 64. (1) Where a particular type of processing, in particular where new technologies are used, and given the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing, is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons before the processing is carried out, the controller shall assess the impact of the envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data. (2) The assessment under para. 1 shall contain at least a general description of the processing operations envisaged, an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, measures intended to address those risks, safeguards, security measures and mechanisms to ensure the protection of personal data and to demonstrate compliance with the rules of that Chapter, taking into account the rights and legitimate interests of data subjects and other persons concerned. Art. 65. (1) The controller or processor shall consult the Commission, respectively, with the inspector before the processing of personal data, which shall be part of a new personal data repository to be established where: 1. according to the impact assessment under art. the processing will pose a high risk despite the risk mitigation measures taken by the administrator, or 2. the type of processing, in particular when using new technologies, mechanisms or procedures, involves a high level of risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects. (2) In the preparation of draft laws and regulations containing measures concerning processing, the Commission shall be consulted, respectively, with the inspectorate. (3) The Commission shall adopt and publish a list of processing operations for which prior consultation under para. 1. The inspectorate shall apply the list referred to in the first sentence accordingly. (4) The administrator shall provide the Commission with the assessment of the impact under art. 64 and, upon request, any other information that will enable them to assess the conformity of the processing and, in particular, the risks to the protection of personal data and the relevant safeguards for that protection. (5) Where the Commission, respectively, considers that the planned processing under para. 1 would infringe the provisions of this Chapter, in particular where the administrator has not identified or limited the risk sufficiently, they shall provide within 6 weeks of receipt of the request for consultation a written opinion of the administrator and, where applicable, That period may be extended by another month depending on the complexity of the intended processing. Within one month of receipt of the request for consultation, the Commission shall inform the administrator and, where applicable, the controller of the extension of the period, including the reasons for the delay. (6) Provide a written opinion under para. 5 shall be without prejudice to the possibility of the Commission, respectively to exercise its powers under art. 80 to the controller or processor. Art. 66. (1) The controller and the processor shall, taking into account the technical progress developments, the implementation costs and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, apply appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure a level of security consistent with that risk, in particular with regard to the processing of categories of personal data under art. 51, para. 1. (2) With regard to automated processing, the controller or processor shall, following a risk assessment, apply measures aimed at: 1. control of access to equipment to refuse access by unauthorised persons to the equipment used for the processing of personal data; 2. control over the data media to prevent the reading, copying, modification or removal of data media from unauthorised persons; 3. control over the is to prevent the entry of personal data by unauthorised persons, as well as the carrying out of checks, modification or deletion of stored personal data by unauthorised persons; 4. control over users to prevent the use of automated processing systems by unauthorised persons by using data transmission equipment; 5. control of access to data to ensure that persons authorised to use an automated processing system have access only to the personal data covered by their access authorisation; 6. control over the communication to ensure that the verification and identification of which authorities have been or can be transmitted personal data, or which authorities have access to personal data through data transfer equipment; 7. control over the input of data to ensure the possibility of subsequent verification and identification of what personal data have been entered into automated processing systems, and when and by whom they have been introduced; 8. control over the transfer of personal data to prevent the reading, copying, modification or deletion of personal data by unauthorised persons in the transfer of personal data or in the transfer of data media; 9. recovery to ensure the ability to restore installed systems in the event of failure of the functions of the systems; 10. reliability to ensure the performance of the functions of the system and reporting of malfunctions occurring in the functions; 11. integrity to ensure that personal data stored are not damaged due to malfunction of the system. Art. 67. (1) In the event of a breach of personal data security, which is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, the controller shall, without undue delay but no later than 72 hours after he has heard of the breach, inform the Commission accordingly, the inspector shall inform the Commission thereof. Where the notification is submitted after the period referred to in the first sentence, it shall state the reasons for the delay. (2) The processor shall notify the controller without undue delay, but no later than 72 hours after having identified a breach of personal data security. (3) The notification under para. 1 contains at least: 1. a description of the personal data breach, including, where possible, the categories and approximate number of data subjects concerned and the categories and approximate number of personal data records concerned; 2. the name and contact details of the data protection officer or other contact point from which more information may be obtained; 3. a description of the possible consequences of the personal data breach; 4. a description of the measures taken or proposed by the controller to address the personal data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to reduce the possible adverse consequences. (4) Where it is not possible to submit the information simultaneously, it may be submitted step by step without further unnecessary delay. (5) The administrator shall document any breach of the personal data security under para. 1, including the facts relating to the infringement, its consequences and the actions taken to deal with it. (6) Where the personal data breach affects personal data which are sent by or to an administrator from another Member State of the European Union, the information under para. 3 shall be communicated to that administrator without undue delay, but not later than 7 days after the infringement has been established. Art. 68. (1) Where a breach of the security of personal data under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 lead to a high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, the controller of personal data shall also inform the data subject of the infringement not later than 7 days after its establishment. (2) In the notification under para. 1 in clear and understandable language, a description of the infringement and at least the information and measures under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 3, p. 2, 3 and 4. (3) The data subject shall not be informed of any infringement under para. 1 if any of the following conditions are met: 1. the controller has taken appropriate technical and organisational protection measures and those measures have been applied to personal data affected by the infringement, in particular measures that make personal data incomprehensible to any person who is not entitled to access them, such as encryption; 2. the controller has subsequently taken measures to ensure that the high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects is no longer likely to be realised; 3. notification would lead to disproportionate efforts; in this case a public communication shall be made or another similar measure shall be taken so that data subjects are equally effectively informed. (4) Where the controller has not notified the data subject of the personal data breach under para. 1, the Commission, respectively, the inspectorate, having taken into account the likelihood of the infringement causing a high risk, may require the controller to notify the data subject. (5) In the cases referred to in art. 54, para. 3 The controller may not notify the data subject of the infringement under para. 1, notify him after the term under para. 1, as well as limit the information under para. 2. Art. 69. (1) The controller shall designate a data protection officer on the basis of his professional qualities and, in particular, on the basis of his expertise in the legislation and practices in the field of personal data protection and his ability to carry out the tasks under art. 70. (2) A data protection officer may be designated jointly for several administrators, taking into account their organisational structure and scale. (3) The administrator shall appropriately disclose the contact details of the data protection officer and shall inform the Commission by the order of art. 25b. (4) Data protection officials designated by the judicial authorities shall not carry out the tasks under art. 70 when processing personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 of the court, prosecution and investigation bodies in the performance of their functions as judicial bodies. Art. 70. (1) The controller of personal data shall ensure that the data protection officer participates in an appropriate manner and in a timely manner in examining all issues relating to the protection of personal data. (2) The controller shall assign at least the following tasks to the data protection officer: 1. inform and advise the controller and employees who carry out the processing, their obligations under this law and other regulatory requirements for the protection of personal data; 2. monitor compliance with this law and other regulatory requirements for the protection of personal data and the controller's policies with regard to the protection of personal data, including the award of responsibilities, awareness raising and training of staff involved in processing operations and the relevant checks; 3. upon request to provide advice regarding the impact assessment under art. 64 and monitor its performance; 4. cooperate with the Commission, respectively with the inspectorate; 5. act as a contact point with the Commission, including for the purposes of prior consultation under art. 65 and, if necessary, consult the Commission, the inspectorate on matters relating to the processing of personal data. (3) The controller shall ensure the technical and organisational activity of the data protection officer, including the necessary resources, access to personal data and processing operations, and the maintenance of his or her expertise. Art. 71. The competent authorities shall determine appropriate procedures to enable their employees to report directly and confidentially to the relevant administrative unit in the structure of the administrator or to the Commission, respectively, to the infringement inspectorate under this Chapter. Section IV Transfer of personal data to third countries or International organisations Art. 72. (1) A competent authority may transmit personal data which are processed or intended for processing following their transfer to a third country or to an international organisation, including any subsequent transfer to another third country or international organisation, provided that the transfer is in accordance with that law and any of the following conditions are met: 1. the transmission is necessary for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1; 2. personal data shall be transmitted to an administrator in a third country or to an international organisation which is competent for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1; 3. where personal data obtained from another Member State of the European Union are transmitted, that Member State has granted its prior authorisation for the transfer in accordance with its national law; 4. when: (a) the European Commission has adopted a decision that the third country, territory or one or more specific sectors in that third country or the international organisation concerned ensure an adequate level of protection; or (b) in the absence of a decision referred to in point 74 or (c) In the absence of a decision referred to in point (a) and appropriate guarantees under point (b) the transfer of personal data is necessary in the cases referred to in art. 75; 5. upon subsequent transfer of personal data to another third country or international organisation, the competent authority that carried out the initial transfer or other competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria shall authorise the subsequent transfer of data after having duly taken into account all relevant factors, including the severity of the offence, the purpose of the initial transfer of personal data and the level of protection of personal data in the other third country or international organisation to which the subsequent transfer of personal data takes place. (2) The transfer of personal data without the prior authorisation of the other Member State of the European Union pursuant to para. 1, t. 3 shall only be authorised if the transfer is necessary to prevent an immediate and serious threat to public policy and security of a Member State of the European Union or of a third country or to the essential interests of a Member State of the European Union and the prior authorisation cannot be obtained in due time. In such cases, the authority of the Member State of the European Union providing the personal data shall be notified without delay, which shall be competent to grant the prior authorisation under para. 1, t. 3. Art. 73. When the European Commission revokes, amends or suspends a decision under Article 3. 72, para. 1, t. 4 (a) The transfer of personal data to the third country concerned, to the territory or to one or more specific sectors in that third country or to the relevant international organisation may take place under the conditions of art. 74 and 75. Art. 74. (1) In the absence of a decision of the European Commission under art. 72, para. 1, t. 4 (a) The transfer of personal data to a third country or international organisation may take place where: 1. in the legislation of the third country or in the statutes of the international organisation, or in force an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party or in another legally binding act provides for appropriate safeguards in relation to the protection of personal data; or 2. the controller has carried out an assessment of the circumstances relating to the transfer of personal data and has assessed that appropriate safeguards exist with regard to the protection of personal data. (2) The administrator shall document the transmission in the cases under para. 1, t. 2, including the date and time of transmission, information concerning the receiving competent authority, justification for the transmission and the personal data transmitted. (3) The administrator shall inform the Commission, respectively the inspectorate of the categories of transmission under para. 1, t. 2 and upon request give them access to the documentation under para. 2. Art. 75. (1) In the absence of a decision of the European Commission under art. 72, para. 1, t. Article 4 (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 The transfer of personal data to a third country or international organisation may take place only if the transfer is necessary: 1. to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of another person; 2. in order to protect the legitimate interests of the data subject when the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria provides for this; 3. to prevent an immediate and serious threat to public policy and security of a Member State of the European Union or of a third country; 4. in individual cases for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1, or 5. in individual cases for the establishment, exercise or protection of legal claims relating to the purposes of art. 42, para. 1. (2) Personal data may not be transmitted if the transmitting competent authority decides that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject prevail over the public interest of the transmission under para. 1, t. 4 and 5. (3) The transmission of data under para. 1 shall be documented and the documentation shall be made available to the Commission, the inspector, on request, including the date and time of transmission, information on the receiving competent authority, justification for the transmission and the personal data transmitted. Art. 76. (1) In individual and specific cases a competent authority may, without the condition of art. 72, para. 1, t. 2 and without prejudice to an international contract, transfer personal data directly to recipients established in third countries only if the provisions of this Chapter are complied with and any of the following conditions are met: 1. Without the transmission it cannot be implemented or seriously difficult to carry out the task of the transmitting competent authority arising from the law of the European Union or from the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1; 2. the transmitting competent authority decides that the fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject do not prevail over the public interest which requires transmission in the particular case; 3. the transmitting competent authority considers that the transmission of an authority competent in the third country for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 is ineffective or inappropriate, in particular since the transmission cannot be carried out on time; 4. the authority of the third country which is competent for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 is notified without undue delay, unless this is ineffective or inappropriate; 5. the transmitting competent authority shall notify the recipient of the specific purpose or purposes only for which the recipient may process the personal data, provided that such processing is necessary. (2) International Treaty under para. 1 shall be any bilateral or multilateral international agreement in force between Member States of the European Union and third countries in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation. (3) The competent authority transmitting the personal data shall document any transmission under para. 1 and inform the Commission, respectively the inspectorate of it. Art. 77. With regard to third countries and international organisations, the Commission shall take appropriate measures to: 1. developing mechanisms for international cooperation to support the effective implementation of personal data protection legislation; 2. ensuring international mutual assistance in the application of personal data protection legislation, including through notification, forwarding of complaints, assistance in investigations and exchange of information, provided that there are appropriate safeguards for the protection of personal data and other fundamental rights and freedoms; 3. inclusion of relevant stakeholders in discussions and activities aimed at further deepening international cooperation on the implementation of personal data protection legislation; 4. promoting the exchange and documentation of personal data protection legislation and practices, including in relation to jurisdiction disputes, is third countries. Section V Supervision of compliance with the rules on the protection of personal data. Legal remedies.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u75	Excuse me. Wait, Mr. Nunev. This is Section V. The previous section is to be considered as Section IV. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u76	Art. 78. (1) The supervision of this Chapter in the processing of personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 shall be carried out by the Commission, except in the cases under para. 2. (2) The supervision of this chapter in the processing of personal data for the purposes of art. 42, para. 1 of the court, prosecution and investigation bodies in the performance of their functions as judicial bodies shall be carried out by the inspectorate. Art. 79. (1) In carrying out the supervision under this Chapter, the Commission shall, respectively, carry out the following tasks: 1. monitor and ensure the implementation of the provisions of this Chapter; 2. promote public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules, guarantees and rights related to the processing of personal data; 3. raise the awareness of administrators and processors of their duties; 4. provide information to each data subject regarding the exercise of its rights upon request and, where necessary, cooperate with the supervisory authorities in other Member States of the European Union; 5. examine complaints submitted by a data subject under the terms and conditions of Chapter 7; 6. verify the lawfulness of the processing in the cases referred to in art. 57 and inform the data subject of the outcome of the verification within three months of the referral or of the reasons why the verification was not carried out; 7. cooperate with other supervisory authorities, including through the exchange of information, and provide mutual assistance with a view to ensuring the consistent application and enforcement of the rules on the protection of personal data; 8. conduct personal data protection studies, including on the basis of information received from another supervisory or public authority; 9. monitor the development of information and communication technologies with a view to their impact on the protection of personal data. (2) Except the tasks under para. 1, the Commission in carrying out the supervision under this Chapter shall also carry out the tasks under Article 1. 10, para. 2, as well as participating in the activities of the European Data Protection Committee. (3) In the performance of the tasks under para. 1 shall not be charged by the data subject or by the data protection officer. (4) The controller and the processor shall cooperate on request with the Commission, respectively, the inspector in carrying out their tasks. Art. 80. (1) In carrying out the supervision under this Chapter, the Commission shall, respectively, have the power to: 1. receive from the controller or the processor access to all personal data processed; 2. receive from the controller or the processor all information necessary for the performance of the tasks under art. 79; 3. alert the controller or processor where planned processing operations are likely to violate the provisions of this Chapter; 4. ordering the controller or processor to bring the processing operations into line with the provisions of this Chapter, including ordering the correction, addition, deletion of personal data or limitation of their processing under art. 56; 5. impose a temporary or definitive restriction, including a prohibition, on the processing of data; 6. give opinions to the controller and the processor in accordance with the prior consultation procedure under art. 65; 7. give opinions on its own initiative or upon request on draft laws and other regulations, as well as on administrative measures relating to the protection of personal data of natural persons; 8. issue opinions on its own initiative or upon request on matters relating to the protection of personal data. (2) Apart from the powers under para. 1, the Commission, respectively the inspectorate shall exercise the powers under Article 1. 10a, para. 2, p. Art. 2, respectively 17a, para. 2, p. 2. (3) The Commission, respectively, may refer the Court of Justice to infringements under this Chapter. Art. 81. (1) The Commission shall, respectively, cooperate with the relevant supervisory authorities of the other Member States of the European Union, including through the exchange of information and the enforcement of requests for consultations, inspections and investigations. Requests should contain all necessary information, including the purpose and grounds of the request. The information exchanged shall be used only for the purposes for which it is requested. (2) The Commission shall, respectively, take all necessary and appropriate measures to respond to the request of another supervisory authority without undue delay and no later than one month after receipt of the request. (3) The Commission, respectively, may refuse a request under para. 1 by motivating its refusal when: 1. is not competent for the subject-matter of the request or measures required to comply, or 2. the implementation of the request would violate the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria or the law of the European Union. (4) The Commission shall, respectively, inform the requesting supervisory authority of the results or, as the case may be, of the progress of the measures taken in response to the request. (5) Forms of cooperation and mutual assistance between the Commission, the inspectorate and the supervisory authorities of other Member States, and the procedures under which they are carried out, shall be determined by the rules of art. 9, para. 2, respectively, with the rules of art. 55, para. 8 of the Law on the Judiciary. Art. 82. (1) In the event of violation of its rights under this Chapter, the data subject shall have the means of legal protection and may take responsibility for the damage caused to him in accordance with Chapter 7. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 38, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 38b, para. 1 The Commission shall, respectively, facilitate the submission of a complaint by a data subject by providing a form. Art. 83. (1) The data subject shall have the right to entrust to a non-profit legal person having statutory objectives of public interest and operating in the area of the protection of the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the protection of their personal data, to lodge a complaint on his behalf and to exercise on his behalf the rights under art. 38, para. Art. 1 and 6, Art. 38b, para. Art. 1, art. 38c, para. Art. 4 and 5 and art. 39, para. 1. (2) The data subject may not assign to a person under para. 1 to exercise his right to compensation under art. 39, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Statements? I can't see. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the text the Commission proposes for § 41. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u78	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. Chapter 9 shall be created with art. 84 "S87: "Chapter 9" Forced administrative measures. Administrative penalty provisions Art. 84. (1) The measures referred to in art. 58, paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) and (c) of Article 58 (2) and the measures referred to in art. 80, para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 are forced administrative measures within the meaning of the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties. (2) The measures under para. 1 shall be applied by a decision of the Commission, respectively to the inspectorate, which shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of its receipt. Art. 85. (1) For infringements under art. 25c the controller or processor shall be subject to a fine or a financial penalty in the amounts referred to in art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (2) For violations under art. 12a, para. Art. 2, Art. 25g, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 25z, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 25, Art. Art. 25k. 25n the controller or processor shall be subject to a fine or a penalty in the size of art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) For violations under art. Article 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. 45, Art. Art. 49, Art. Art. 51, Art. Art. 53-56 and Art. 53-56 80, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of the controller or processor shall be subject to a fine or a financial penalty in the amounts referred to in Article 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (4) For violations under art. 59, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 62 and 64 "70" the controller or processor shall be subject to a fine or penalty in the size of art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (5) For failure to comply with an effective decision under art. 84, para. 2 implementing forced administrative measures under art. 80, para. 1, t. 4 and 5, the controller or processor shall be subject to a fine or a penalty in the amounts referred to in Article 5. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (6) The dimensions of the provisions of para. 5 administrative penalties shall be determined in accordance with the administrative penalties referred to in art. 83 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 criteria and are imposed in their left-hand equivalence. Art. 86. (1) For other violations under this law, a controller or processor shall impose a fine or a penalty of up to 5000 BGN. (2) For violation of para. 1 a repeated fine or penalty of double the amount initially imposed shall be imposed. Art. 87. (1) Outside the cases referred to in art. 38, para. 1, the establishment of infringements of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or of that law, the issuance, appeal and enforcement of criminal orders shall be carried out under the Law on administrative infringements and penalties. (2) The acts establishing the administrative infringements shall be drawn up by a member of the Commission or by officials authorised by the Commission, respectively, by order of the Chief Inspector. (3) Criminal orders shall be issued by the Chair of the Commission, respectively by the Chief Inspector or by inspectors authorised by him. (4) The property penalties and the fines for the effective decisions under art. 38, para. 3 and penal decrees shall be collected in accordance with the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (5) The amounts collected from the property penalties imposed by the Commission and fines shall be paid to the Commission's budget. (6) The amounts collected from property penalties imposed by the inspector shall be paid under the budget of the judiciary. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... The following amendments shall be made to the additional provisions: 1. paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ................................................................................... For the 1. "Personal data" is the concept of art. 4 t. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 2. "Administrator" with the exception of the administrator of Chapter Eight is the concept of art. 4 t. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 3. The processing of personal data is the concept of art. 4 t. 8 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 4. "Processing" is the concept of art. 4 t. 2 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 5. "Restricting the processing' is the concept of art. 4 t. 3 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 6. "Profiling" is the concept of art. 4 t. 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 7. "Psedonymisation" is the concept of art. 4 t. 5 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 8. "Register with personal data" is the concept of art. 4 t. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 9. "Acquired" is the concept of art. 4 t. 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. A State or local authority, as well as a body whose main activity is to spend public funds which may receive personal data within the framework of a specific investigation in accordance with a law, shall not be regarded as recipients within the meaning of Chapter Eight. The processing of personal data by those authorities or bodies shall comply with the applicable data protection rules in accordance with the purposes of the processing. 10. The security breach of personal data is the concept of art. 4 t. 12 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 11. "Genetic data" is the concept of art. 4 t. 13 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 12. "Biometric data" is the concept of art. 4 t. 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 13. The concept of health-related Danni is the concept of art. 4 t. 15 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679. 14. The term under Art. 1 shall be understood as being the meaning of Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget 15. "Multimately' is the monitoring and/or processing of personal data of a significant or unlimited number of data subjects or a volume of personal data where the controller's or processor's main activities, including their means of execution, consist of such operations. 16. The data subject is liable to suffer any injury to the data subject under certain conditions assessed in terms of its severity and probability. 17. A public authority is a public or local body and a body whose main activity is to spend public funds. 18. "Deleting' is an irreversible deletion of the information from the relevant carrier. 19. The destruction of the material carrier of information is irreversible. 20. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the decision of the Commission or the criminal decree punishing the offender for the same type of infringement shall be repeated. 2. Paragraph 1a is amended as follows: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. This law provides for measures implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016.), as well as introducing the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA (OJ L 119,89 of 4 May 2016.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission proposes to reject § 24 as it is reflected in its systematic position as a new § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Let's stop here. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission, for the wording of § 22, which shall become § 42; the version which the Commission shall propose, in the wording of § 23, which shall become § 43; and the proposal of the Commission to reject § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u80	They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u81	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... (1) The proceedings for violations of the law shall be completed by 25 May 2018 and not completed by the date of the entry into force of this law. (2) For violations of the law and of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 committed until the entry into force of this law, the period for referral to the Committee on Art. 38 is one year of knowledge of the infringement, but no later than five years after it was committed. The Commission proposes to create a new § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The automated processing systems used by the competent authorities under art. 42, para. 4 for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of crimes or the execution of penalties, including the prevention of threats to public policy and security and their prevention, established before 6 May 2016, shall be brought into conformity with art. 63, para. 1 and 2 to 6 May 2023 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following reaction to § 26, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Act on the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 para. 1 is 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 24 is The information funds built for the administrative service of citizens shall also be used for the purpose of protecting national security, combating crime, safeguarding public order and conducting criminal proceedings. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 3 after the words "this law', a comma is placed and added to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 25a: Art. 25a. (1) The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political views, religious or philosophical beliefs, membership in professional unions, the processing of genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of unique identification of the natural person, data relating to the health or sexual life and sexual orientation of the person shall be permitted under the conditions of art. 9 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or of art. 51 of the Personal Data Protection Act. (2) Personal data under para. 1 shall be collected only in relation to other data of the natural person concerned. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: aa) in the text before t. 1 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (bb) points 3 and 4 are amended as follows: "3." may process all necessary categories of personal data; 4. provide personal data to the authorities for the protection of national security, the fight against crime and the protection of public order, as well as to the judicial authorities for the needs of specific criminal proceedings; (c) create t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. provide personal data to other administrators, which are state or local authorities, or recipients with a view to processing them for purposes other than the purpose of protecting national security, combating crime, protecting public order and carrying out criminal proceedings, in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and with the Personal Data Protection Act and in accordance with the instructions set out in art. 29, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 6. exchange personal data with competent authorities and recipients from Member States of the European Union, bodies and agencies of the European Union, third countries or international organisations in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and with the Personal Data Protection Act. (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The time limits for the storage of the data under para. 1 or for periodic verification of the need to store them shall be determined by the Minister of Interior. Such data shall also be deleted in accordance with a judicial act or a decision of the Commission for the protection of personal data. 6. Article 28 is amended as follows: Art. 28. (1) The controller of personal data or officials authorised by him may refuse the full or partial exercise of the rights of data subjects under art. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 22 December 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 where the exercise of rights or the exercise of the obligation: 1. would create a risk to: (a) national security; (b) public policy and security; (c) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including the prevention and prevention of threats to public policy and security; (d) the protection of the data subject or of the rights and freedoms of other persons; (e) the protection of information classified as public or professional secrecy; (f) disclosure of sources of information or unspoken methods and means for its collection; 2. would undermine the implementation of the legally defined activities of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior; 3. concerns information entered into the Schengen Information System (SIS), Interpol databases or Europol databases from another country from which no agreement has been obtained to provide it. (2) Refusal under para. 1 shall be carried out in writing, indicating only the legal basis. (3) Refusal under para. 1 shall be made within one month of receipt of the request for the exercise of rights. The period may be extended by another two months where this is necessary because of the complexity or number of requests. (4) Refusal under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 words within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be deleted; (b) the creation of para. 3: The Minister of Interior shall designate a data protection officer. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 3 the words "the Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the Personal Data Protection Officers'. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123, para. 1 the words under this law and the Personal Data Protection Act shall be replaced by the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u82	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the division, the version of § 25, which shall become § 44 of the Commission Report, a new § 45 and the version of § 26, which shall be § 46 of the Commission Report respectively. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u83	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In the Customs Act (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 8 the terms of the Law and the provisions of the Law shall be replaced by the words of the Law. 2. Article 17a is amended as follows: Art. 17a. (1) In the performance of their duties, customs officials may process personal data. (2) Customs officers may also process personal data obtained from other authorities for the purposes for which they are provided. Such data shall be transmitted only with the permission of the authority that provided them. (3) When processing personal data related to the activities of intelligence, detection and investigation of violations or crimes under art. 234, 242, 242a and 251 of the Penal Code and under art. 255 of the Criminal Code concerning VAT duties on imports and excise duties, customs officials: 1. may not request the consent of the natural person; 2. may not inform the natural person before and during the processing of his or her personal data; 3. provide personal data only to the authorities for the protection of national security, the fight against crime and the protection of public order, as well as to the judicial authorities for the needs of specific criminal proceedings; 4. exchange personal data with competent authorities and recipients from Member States of the European Union, third countries or international organisations in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016.), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU)' and by the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) The time limits for storing the data under para. 3 or for periodic verification of the need to store them shall be determined by the Director of the Customs Agency. Such data shall also be deleted in accordance with a judicial act or a decision of the Commission for the protection of personal data. (5) The processing of personal data shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of that law, Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the Personal Data Protection Act. (6) Personal Data Administrator shall be the Director of the Customs Agency who shall entrust the processing of personal data to officials authorised by him. (7) The Director of the Customs Agency shall designate a data protection officer. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of public electronic communications services undertakings, they shall not require any more data from a consumer than those referred to in art. OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 2, p. 2 point (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v); (b) the creation of para. 3: In accordance with Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251b, para. 4 the words of the Law shall be deleted. 3. Article 262 is amended as follows: Art. 262. The supervision of the processing of personal data under this Section shall be carried out by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the Personal Data Protection Act. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The supervisory authority shall be responsible for the performance of the duties referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 and shall be responsible for the performance of the tasks referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article. Art. 251g. 261c and for the implementation of the instructions and recommendations under art. 261d is carried out by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data under the terms and conditions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and the Personal Data Protection Act. (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 327 para. 3 is repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36a, para. The first sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the single civil number or the personal number of a foreigner and the signatures of the natural persons as well as other information. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. The first sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the single civil number or the personal number of a foreigner and the signatures of the natural persons as well as other information. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 48th para is Where the subject-matter of the contract is the development, design and use of services and products based on the processing of personal data or processing personal data and where the processing of personal data concerned falls within the material scope of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).), the technical specifications defining the characteristics of the subject-matter of the contract must comply with the rules on the protection of personal data under art. 25 of the same Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u84	Statements? I can't see. I will put the amendments to paragraphs 27, 28 and 29, respectively, which become paragraphs 47, 48 and 49 of the Commission Report. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u85	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In the Law on the Judiciary (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 7 words with the Law shall be replaced by the requirements. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29d, para. 6 words with the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the requirements. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 6 words with the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the requirements. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created t. 15: ..15. supervise the processing of personal data in the cases referred to in Article 1. 17, para. 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act. (b) A new para shall be created. 2: In carrying out the supervision under para. 1, t. 15 The Inspectorate shall carry out the tasks and exercise the powers under the Personal Data Protection Act. c) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1 sentence, second word, second word, is replaced by five. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 1 the words of the Law shall be deleted. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 1, t. 15 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1, t. 18 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 93, para. 1, t. 12 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 1, t. 15 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114, para. 1, t. 16 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122, para. 1, t. 16 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 173, para. The third sentence of the sentence of Article 8 is replaced by the words of Article 8 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 175d, para. 5 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied." 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 360c, para. 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier'. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 373 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the personal data protection requirements. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 385, para. 1 the words of the Law shall be deleted. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 386, para. 5 words with the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the requirements. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the National Archive Fund Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 is created In the documents referred to in para. 1 no interference and deletion of data, including personal data, shall be allowed for the purposes of the backup in the public interest. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, t. 1 shall be added at the end of the day, including personal data. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 48th para is The documents referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 containing personal data shall be transmitted to the public archives by the management bodies of the state and municipal institutions with their permission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u86	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 30, which shall become § 50, and the version of § 31, which shall become § 51 on the Commission's report. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u87	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 the words of the Law shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. The second sentence of the second sentence is deleted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 2 sentence third, the words of the Law shall be deleted. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 is created t. 49: ..49. in cooperation with the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, provide guidance on the processing and protection of personal data in the electoral process. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 71, para. The second sentence of the second sentence is deleted. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86 words of the Law are deleted. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 113 words of the Law are deleted. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122, para. 1 sentence second, the words of the Law and of the Law shall be deleted. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, para. 4 sentence third, the words of the Law shall be deleted. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 t. 5 after the words "one list', the voter shall be added to the list when signing his signature attests to his identity. (b) in para. 4 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be replaced by the words for their protection. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 3 t. 6 after the words "one list', the voter shall be added to the list when signing his signature attests to his identity. (b) in para. 4 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be replaced by the words for their protection. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 a new sentence is created fourth: (b) in para. 3 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the words "Personal Data Protection Act" and the words "Art." 3, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act 4 t. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 a new sentence is created fourth: (b) in para. 3 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the words "Personal Data Protection Act" and the words "Art." 3, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act 4 t. 7 of Regulation (EU) are to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in accordance with the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis and the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 a new sentence is created fourth: (b) in para. 3 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the words "Personal Data Protection Act" and the words "Art." 3, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act 4 t. 7 of Regulation (EU) are to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in accordance with the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis and the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2 a new sentence is created fourth: (b) in para. 3 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the words "Personal Data Protection Act" and the words "Art." 3, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act 4 t. 7 of Regulation (EU) are to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement in accordance with the Agreement between the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis and the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis. 16. In the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code (prom., SG No. ...) in § 145, para. 23 of the transitional and final provisions, the words The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 53: § 53. In the Law on State Agency "National Security" (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." keep the data within time limits specified by the ordinance under para. 10, unless the law provides for another term. (b) in para. 9 words within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 5 the words "the Data Administrator" shall be replaced by the Agency's representative or Vice-President who is authorised by the Agency. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42b, para. 5 words................................................................................. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3 the words "the Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the Personal Data Protection Officers'. (b) in para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 42n is created. 6: The controller of personal data relating to the personal data processed by the National Unit shall be his supervisor. 6. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 42n1. 42n5: Art. 42n1. (1) Data subjects may request information about the personal data processed for them by the National Unit with automatic or other means. (2) The request under para. 1 must be justified and not excessive. (3) The request submitted by a data subject relating to the recording, storage, use, provision, updating, combination, restriction of the processing or deletion of his personal data shall be valid. (4) The request exceeding the scope of the personal data processed in the National Unit shall be excessive. A repeated request to provide the same information shall be deemed excessive. (5) The National Unit may refuse to consider a request for information where it is unfounded or excessive. The refusal shall be motivated and the person making the request shall be informed of it. Art. 42nd. (1) When submitting a request under art. 42n1, para. 1 the data subject provides sufficient information to confirm his identity. (2) The information under para. 1 must contain at least: 1. name of the data subject; 2. a single civil number or a personal number of a foreigner, or another similar identifier; 3. permanent address; 4. address for correspondence; 5. telephone; 6. e-mail address for correspondence (if available). (3) When the data under para. 2 or the data provided give rise to reasonable doubts as to the identity of the person, the National Unit may refuse to examine the request. Art. 42n3. The national unit may restrict, delay or provide information to the data subject, taking into account its fundamental rights and interests, where: 1. the provision of information would prevent an official or legal inspection or other legal procedure in connection with terrorist or other serious crimes; 2. the provision of information would adversely affect the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of terrorist offences or other serious criminal offences; 3. the provision of information would adversely affect the protection of: (a) public order and security; (b) national security; (c) the rights and freedoms of third parties; 4. other circumstances would adversely affect the protection of public interest and the actions of the competent authorities in carrying out their powers under law. Art. 42n4. (1) The controller of personal data under art. 42n, para. 6 shall take a decision within 60 days of the receipt of the request under art. 42n1, para. 1. (2) Where the personal data to which the request relates are provided by the National Unit of Authority under art. 42f and 42g or of a competent authority of another State or of Europol under that law, the controller of personal data under art. 42n, para. 6 asks that authority whether there are no grounds under art. 42n3 for limitation, delay for a certain period or failure to provide the requested information. The requested authority shall reply within 14 days of receipt by motivating the limitation, delay for a specified period or failure to provide the requested information, specifying the specific basis under art. 42n3. (3) When no response is received within the term under para. 2, The National Unit shall provide the requested information. (4) Within the term under para. 1 The data protection officer of the National Unit shall inform the data subject in writing of the decision under para. 1. (5) The Data Protection Officer of the National Unit shall provide the data subject with at least the following information: 1. the data identifying the National Unit and the contact details of the Data Protection Officer; 2. the purposes for the processing of personal data by the National Unit; 3. the period for which personal data are stored after entering the National Unit; 4. the right to lodge a complaint with the Commission for the protection of personal data or to seek judicial protection. Art. 42n5. The data subject shall have the right to request the Commission for the protection of personal data to carry out a verification of the legality of the decision under art. 42n4, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 7. In § 1, t. 10 of the additional provision, the words "any action or set of actions carried out by automatic or other means, such as collection, recording, organisation, storage, adaptation or amendment, recovery, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, distribution, provision, updating or combination, blocking, deletion or disposal, shall be replaced by processing within the meaning of § 1, item. 4 of the additional provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 80, para. 7 the 2. Article 83 is amended as follows: Art. 83. (1) Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) (2) Processing of personal data for the purposes of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing shall be considered as a matter of public interest under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and shall not be restricted by the requirements of art. Art. 12, Art. 22, Art. 34 of that regulation. (3) After the expiration of the storage period under art. 70 persons working by the Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security and Personal Data under this Law and under the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism shall be deleted or destroyed unless a special law provides otherwise. (4) Personal data administrator with regard to the data processed by the Directorate-General of Finance Intelligence. 3. Paragraph 4a shall be inserted in the additional provisions: .................................................................................. This law provides for measures implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation). The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u88	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 32, which shall become § 52, of § 33, which shall become § 53, a new version, the version of § 34, which shall become § 54 of the Commission Report, and the text supported by the Commission of the importer § 35, which shall become § 55. Member of the Commission. - The votes of 86 Members of the Parliament: for 85, there is none, abstentioned. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u89	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the National Security Service Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the Personal Data Protection Officers'. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The information referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be processed, analysed, stored and disposed of in accordance with the order of the Head of the National Security Service, subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and Personal Data Protection requirements. 3. They're creating an al. 4.. In processing personal data related to ensuring the safety of persons, objects and events designated by this law, the officers and sergeants of the National Security Service shall: 1. may not request the consent of the natural person; 2. may not inform the natural person before and during the processing of his or her personal data; 3. keep the data within the time limits set by the controller of the personal data; 4. may only provide personal data to the authorities for the protection of national security and public order and to the judicial authorities. (5) The National Security Service may also process personal data processed by other authorities, such as data obtained in this way cannot be used for purposes other than the activities of the National Security Service. These data shall not be transferred to third parties. (6) The controller of personal data shall be the head of the National Security Service, who shall assign the processing of personal data to officials appointed by him. (7) The order of processing of personal data shall be determined by an act of the Head of the National Security Service. (8) The control of the protection of the rights of individuals in the processing of their personal data and in the exercise of access to such data shall be exercised by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data under the terms and conditions of the Personal Data Protection Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the Military Intelligence Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 78 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The processing of personal data is carried out under the terms and conditions of this law. 2. The creation of para. 5. The control of the protection of the rights of individuals in the processing of their personal data and in the exercise of access to such data shall be exercised by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data under the terms and conditions of the Personal Data Protection Act. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 426 is created. 4. Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2009/138/EC is replaced by the following: 454.............................................................................. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, For the insurance contract, the liability contract shall apply to art. 454. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted by the Member State concerned, the aid granted by the Member State concerned shall be 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 571, para. 8 the words "the Law" shall be replaced by "the requirements" shall apply. 5. Paragraph 7 of the additional provisions establishes para. 3: The possibility of processing personal data for health provided for in art. 107 and 454 of this Code constitutes an additional condition for the lawful processing of personal data for health purposes within the meaning of art. 9, p. 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 59: ............... 59................................................................... In the Energy Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98a, para. 2 is created t. 7. "7." the types of personal data which are necessarily processed by the final supplier, including but not limited to: (a) names; (b) a single civil number; (c) Address. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 104a, para. 2 is created t. 6: It's six. the types of personal data which are necessarily processed by the transmission or distribution network operator, including but not limited to: (a) names; (b) a single civil number; (c) Address. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139a, para. 2 t. Ten is canceled. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139c. 2 A sentence 2 is created: The general terms and conditions also contain the types of personal data which are necessarily processed by the heat undertaking or heat supplier, including but not limited to names, single civil number and address. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 150, para. 1 is created t. 7. "7." the types of personal data which are necessarily processed by the heat transfer undertaking, including but not limited to: (a) names; (b) a single civil number; (c) Address. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 words................................................................................. 2 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data 4 t. 6 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation (EU) (b) in para. 2 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (c) in para. 3 words within the meaning of art. 23, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data is deleted; (d) in para. 4 words under the requirements of the ordinance under art. 23, para. 5 of the Law (s) shall be replaced by.. in compliance with the (e) in para. 5 words................................................................................. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data 13 of Regulation (EU) (f) in para. 6 the words with the Law shall be replaced by the requirements and everywhere the word.............................................................. is replaced by....................................................................................................................................................................................... (g) in para. 7 words.............................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from (h) in para. 8 the words "Chapter 6 of the Personal Data Protection Act" shall be replaced by the words "for the transfer of personal data to third countries or international organisations"; (i) in para. The first sentence is replaced by the second sentence by the words under the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143p, para. 8 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 57a, para. 5 the terms of the Personal Data Protection Act and the terms of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be replaced by compliance with the data protection requirements. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In the Copyright and Related Rights Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26e the words with the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the requirements for their protection. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94a, para. 5 words with the Personal Data Protection Act shall be replaced by the requirements for their protection. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 94z, para. 5, t. 4 the words of the Personal Data Protection Act shall be replaced by the words of the Personal Data Protection Act and shall be replaced by the words of the Data Protection Act and shall be replaced by the words of the Data Protection The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 66. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 67: ................. In the Law on Civil Registration (prom., SG No. Article 109 is amended as follows: Art. 109. Appropriate technical and organisational measures, as well as special insurance measures (including the establishment and maintenance of a Emergency, Accident and Crisis Reserve Centre) shall apply in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016.), with the Personal Data Protection Act and the International Contracts ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 69: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Access to Public Information (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15c, para. 3 the words "the protection of the applicant's personal data under the Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the protection of personal data' with regard to the applicant's data. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41b, para. 1, t. 10 words "The Personal Data Protection Act' shall be replaced by "the protection requirements'. 3. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is amended as follows: "2." "Personal data" is the concept within the meaning of art. 4 t. 1 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation) (OJ L 119/1 of 4 May 2016).) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... In the Law on Access to Space Data (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 17, para. 2, p. 6 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 71. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 72: ................. In the Law on State Agency "Research" (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 2 the words under the Personal Data Protection Act are replaced by the personal data relating to the person and by the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 5 words within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 74. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 77.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u90	So far, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the version of paragraph 36, which becomes 56; the amendments to paragraphs 37, 38, 39, 40, which become 57, 58, 59 and 60 respectively under the Commission Report; § 41, which becomes § 61; the amendments to § 42, which becomes § 62; the amendments to § 43, which becomes § 63 of the Commission Report; respectively are supported by § 44, which becomes § 64, § 45, which becomes § 65, and § 46, which becomes § 66; the amendments to § 47, which becomes § 67; § 48, which becomes § 68; the amendments to § 49, which becomes 69, the amendments to § 50 respectively, which becomes § 70 of the Commission Report; the amendments to § 51, which becomes § 71; the amendments to § 52, which becomes § 72 of the Commission Report are supported; and the amendments to paragraphs 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57 respectively, which become paragraphs 73, 74, 75, 76 and 77 respectively. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u91	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 58, which becomes § 78, and in the name of the law the word "criminal' is replaced by "criminal'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 79. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 81. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 62 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 82: ............................................................................... In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 17a, para. 3, p. 3 the words with the Law and the Law shall be replaced by the words with the requirements and shall be replaced by the words with the Law and shall be replaced by the words with the requirements of the Law and shall be replaced by the words with the words with the Law and shall be replaced by the words with the words The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 64, which becomes § 83, in which in the name of the law, the words................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 85. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 86. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 68, which shall become § 87: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 189 in the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-01-23.u92	So far, Mr. Tsvetanov, to vote on time. I shall put to the vote § 58 by importer, which shall become § 78 respectively by the corresponding amendment; those supported by the importer, paragraphs 59, 60 and 61 by the corresponding renumbering of 79, 80 and 81; I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 62; the editorial amendment of § 63, which shall become § 82 by the Commission Report; § 64, which shall become § 83 by the corresponding amendment in the name; those supported by the importer § 65, which shall become § 84, § 66, which shall become § 85, § 67, which shall become § 86, and the version of § 68 which shall become § 87. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. That concludes today's plenary day. Tomorrow's regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
