ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the draft work programme of the National Assembly for September 18, 2019: "1." First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 8 July 2019. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. People's representatives Slavcho Atanasov, Boriana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev, 5 September 2019. 3. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 25 July 2019. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importer is the People's Representative Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs, 31 July 2019. 5. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products for 2018. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 5 August 2019. 6. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "National Security" for 2018 (secret) and Draft Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers? 1st for Thursday, 19 September 2019; on the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a classification level under the Classified Information Protection Act. 7. Annual Activity Report of the State Agency (IAC) for 2018 (secret) and Draft Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The sitting is also closed for this point. 8. Annual Activity Report of the Office "Military information" for 2018 (secret) and Draft Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The sitting in this section is adjourned. 9. Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2018. (confidential) and Draft Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers? 4th for Thursday, 19 September 2019; on the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly the meeting in this part is closed, as the report has a level of classification of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 10. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades. Importer is the Council of Ministers? 5th for Thursday, 19 September 2019. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of Annex to the Framework Agreement on the Project "Traducci" on Support and Mediation for Translation Projects in South East Europe and the Accession of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Project for the period 1 January 2019. 31 December 2020, signed by the Bulgarian side on 14 December 2018 in Sofia. Importer is the Council of Ministers' point one for Friday, 20 September 2019. 12. Parliamentary control. I'm voting on the draft work programme. They voted 170 MPs: 144, none, abstention 26. The proposal for the Programme has been accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 11 to 17 September 2019: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling and to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. Importer is the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Health. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Organ, Tissue and Cell Transplanting. Importer is the national representative Georgi Mihaylov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importer is the People's Representative Mikhail Hristov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. An importer is the national representative Hamid Hamid and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Report on the activity of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. Import is the Court of Auditors. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Messages: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: 1. In the period from 30 September to 4 October 2019 on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will be held a distributed computer assisted command training. Military personnel from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria and representatives of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, Northern Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, Turkey and Montenegro will participate in the exercise. The exercise is conducted at the initiative of the heads of defence of the Balkan Peninsula countries and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to carrying out activities to prevent military action conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. 2. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch of servicemen of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with equipment, ammunition and equipment for participation in a multinational exercise in the territory of the Republic of Romania from 16 to 27 September 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. 3. In the implementation of a plan for bilateral military co-operation between the ministries of defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania for 2019 between 16 and 20 September 2019 and a joint Bulgarian-Romanian-Canadian exercise. In this regard, he authorized: - the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of aircraft with their crews and the armed forces of the Air Force of Romania and Canada, co-ordination servicemen, engineering and technical staff, transport and equipment, equipment and no weapons to provide technical assistance and maintenance to aircraft; - the dispatch and use of aircraft with their crews and armed personnel of the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria, co-ordination service personnel, engineering and technical staff with transport, equipment, equipment and no weapons to provide technical assistance and maintenance to aircraft. The exercise is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other State or organisation) armed forces. The notifications were received on 12, 13 and 16 September 2019, respectively, with input numbers from 903-09-57 to 903 09-59, and were submitted to the Defence Committee. On 13 September 2019, by letters from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and from the President of the Fiscal Council of the National Assembly received: Report on the cash implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme for the first half of 2019, adopted by Decision No 539 of the Council of Ministers of 2019; Opinion of the Fiscal Council on the Declaration on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 and Annual Report on the State and State Guaranteed Debt Status on 31 December 2018. By letters of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Opinion are sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, we would like to remind you that the Committee on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, together with the Committee on Health, the National Centre for Transmigratory Hematology and the Bulgarian Red Cross, organized a blood donation action on 18 September, Wednesday, from 9.30 to 13.30 in the House of the National Assembly in the building of the National Assembly. We inform you that there is an official opening of the blood donation action, which will take place in the eastern couloir of the euro, from 11.30 p.m. on 18 September 2019. This charity initiative "Support and encourage blood donation" is designed to focus the public's attention on the problems related to the provision of blood and blood components needed for the needs of health care. In view of the increasing shortage of voluntary and grant blood donors, it is necessary to increase awareness of the meaning of donating blood that saves life. In support of this noble initiative, we expect the people's representatives and employees from the Forty-fourth National Assembly to be actively involved in the campaign and thus to set our example of encouraging, stimulating and encouraging free and voluntary blood donation. Anyone willing to donate blood must present an ID. That's how we finish the messages. We move on to work on the Programme first point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FIGHTING PEOPLE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Dear Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor for the Committee on Legal Affairs Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. At its meeting on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. [[Radio, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u3	Excuse me, excuse me, Mrs. Alexandrova. Colleagues, I'm not John Birkow, and I wouldn't want to call the National Assembly. Please be quiet! If you have important calls to make, use another location. Thank you. Please continue, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u4	At the meeting attended: from the cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence.. Ms. Nikoleta Kuzmanova, Head of Cabinet; from the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings.. Ms. Kamelia Dimitrova, Secretary. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Nikoleta Kuzmanova, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of international legal standards in national law and updated the institutional framework for combating trafficking in human beings and protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. Ms. Kuzmanova noted that the proposed changes are due to the need for effective implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings ratified by the 40th National Assembly on 7 March 2007, which introduces minimum national standards and mechanisms for the treatment of victims of trafficking in human beings, as well as for support and protection. She added that the Bill guarantees a period of recovery and reflection, which is provided to victims of human trafficking for initial recovery after the trauma, for breaking ties with traffickers, and for making a conscious and informed decision whether to assist in the prosecution of the child. The proposals to amend the Law allow for the opening of specialized shelters for subsequent reintegration, as well as for providing free legal assistance and appropriate language assistance to victims of human trafficking. The period of stay of those persons in temporary accommodation shelters shall be increased by introducing a minimum period of 30 days and allowing for the extension of the stay on a proposal from the relevant shelter. The bill defines the status of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings as a national reporting body within the meaning of art. 19 of Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims thereof and replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA and specifying certain texts in force. A legislative opportunity is created to appoint secretaries of local committees to combat trafficking in human beings and to change the authorities obliged to take measures to protect children victims of trafficking in human beings. The adoption of the proposed bill will lead to greater clarity in the implementation of the provisions of the Law, to ensuring transparency of the controls carried out on the activities regulated by it and to fulfilling the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Convention of the Council of Europe on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. Following the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 16 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 1 vote, abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, you have the floor to present the Foreign Policy Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. At its regular meeting on 4 September 2019, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Stefan Balabanov "Deputy Minister of Interior and member of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings." It was underlined that the amendments and additions to the Law on the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings proposed in the Draft Law aim to create a national legal framework for the implementation of international legal instruments to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party, as well as to remedy contradictions in provisions which have so far been shown not to be applicable in practice. Through the changes proposed, the institutional framework for countering trafficking in human beings continues to be developed, as well as the national mechanism for directing and supporting victims of this trafficking. With regard to the synchronization of national legislation with the requirements of international legal rules, it is possible to effectively implement the Council of Europe Convention on the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings, which has been ratified by the 40th National Assembly on 7 March 2007. The recommendations of the Expert Group on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings (GRETA), which is part of the evaluation mechanism of the Council of Europe, which provides appropriate protection of the rights of victims of trafficking, are also reflected. The adoption of amendments and additions to the Law will also lead to a corresponding change in the Regulations for Temporary Housing and Centers for Protection and Assistance of Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings. The proposed changes also regulate the international legal status of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. The long-term practice of this committee shows that after the initial recovery, victims of trafficking need assistance for subsequent reintegration into society. Importers state that the maintenance of the shelters opened by the National Commission for subsequent reintegration will take place within the Commission's budget, which will not lead to an impact on the state budget. The state budget will finance only the maintenance of the shelters and centres established by the National Commission within the framework of the Commission's adopted budget. These shelters and centers will be opened and closed in accordance with the occurrence, respectively the dropping of the relevant need for this. Following the amendments to the State Agency Act "National Security" in 2015 the fight against trafficking in human beings has been dropped, which is why the representative of the State Agency "National Security" is proposed to fall from the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. The participation of NGOs in the National Commission meetings will be governed by the Rules of Procedure for its organisation and activity. Special attention shall be paid to protection and assistance for children victims of trafficking, including the search for their families. The main objective of the amendments to the Law is to focus activities on combating trafficking in human beings and their accompanying other crimes on the support and protection of victims of trafficking. With the proposed bill, the Republic of Bulgaria will harmonise its legal system and activity in this area for better implementation of the principles and provisions of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which: there are 15 Members of Parliament, without the opposition and the abstention. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Dear Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 11 September 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Stefan Balabanov, Deputy Minister of Interior and Member of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, and Mrs. Kamelia Dimitrova, Secretary of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Stefan Balabanov, who informed the MPs that the proposed amendments and additions are related to the need to comply with the international legal instruments to which Bulgaria is a party, as well as to remedy contradictions in provisions which the practice has proved not applicable. The introduction of national legislation to the requirements of the Council of Europe Convention on the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings is linked to the granting of a recovery and consideration to victims of trafficking in human beings, with a residence period of up to 30 days. In this context, the creation of the legal opportunity to open specialized shelters for subsequent reintegration of victims of trafficking in human beings is proposed. The support of the open shelters for subsequent reintegration will be provided within the limits of the budget of the National Commission. Mr. Balabanov stressed that an important point in the changes is the regulation of the international legal status of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings as a national reporting body. Until now, the National Commission has carried out this work, which requires the need to settle the status on a legislative level. The exhibition also paid attention to the amendments related to the established national mechanism for targeting and supporting victims of trafficking in human beings and the settlement at legislative level of the coordinator role of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings in the implementation of the national guidance mechanism. The importer noted that the practice of implementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, as well as the findings of the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, found the existence of ineffective, inappropriate texts and/or inaccurate ones, and this imposed amendments relating to their removal as well as the revision of texts. At the end of the exhibition it was stressed that the adoption of the proposed bill would lead to greater clarity in the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, to ensure transparency of the controls carried out on the activities regulated by it, and to fulfilling our country's commitments on the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. In the discussion took part with supplementary questions the MPs Hristo Prodanov and Ivan Chenchev. Upon completion of the discussion and the vote held with results: 17 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to introduce us to the Report of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 18 July 2019 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2019. At the Commission meeting, the bill was presented by Mrs. Nikoleta Kuzmanova, Head of Cabinet of Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. In the presentation of the Bill it was noted that the changes were dictated by the need to comply with the international legal instruments to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. The same is due to the effective implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. In order to comply with international commitments, as well as with the recommendations of the Panel on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, national legislation should reflect that standard and ensure appropriate protection of the rights of victims of trafficking in human beings. This gives rise to the need to amend and supplement the Law and the Rules on Temporary Housing and Protection and Assistance Centers for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings. An important point in the changes is the regulation of the international legal status of the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings as a national reporting body. Following conclusions from the Commission's long-standing practice at national and international level, there is a need to provide specific care for victims as a service for subsequent reintegration. In this context, it is proposed to create a legal opportunity to open specialized shelters for subsequent reintegration of victims of trafficking. The changes related to the removal of the representative of SANS in the National Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings are related to the changes from 2015 in the SANS Act. Under the current framework, until 2015 the President of the State Agency is a member of the National Commission, and the representatives of the SANS members of the local committees respectively. The waiver of this power requires the revocation of the duty of the President of the SANS and the representatives of the SANS to participate in the National and Local Committees for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings respectively. A major change in the Law is the new text of art. 24, which aims to clarify the assistance and protection of children victims of trafficking, which includes the aspect of the search for their families. Ms. Kuzmanova pointed out that due to the existence of a system of organs for child protection, the interest of the child will be much better protected if its care, even in cases where it is a victim of human trafficking, is carried out by the relevant bodies for child protection. The proposed amendments to amend and supplement the Law on the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings will lead to greater clarity in the implementation of the provisions, ensuring transparency of the controls carried out on the activities regulated therein and fulfilling the country's commitments to implement the Convention on the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings of the Council of Europe. According to the presented bill, the public representative Mr. Krum Zarkov spoke. He said he supports the submitted bill not only because it stems from international agreements, conventions and monitoring mechanisms, but because, according to him, this approach to combating such a type of complex crime, which is not only left within the Criminal Code, is based on prevention, on subsequent care for the victims and is appropriate in this case. It is not a coincidence that this is the case in international practice, and these organizations are international for an international act of their essence. A key part of this bill, according to Mr. Zarkov, is the second element that highlighted the in-house framework and the creation of a new type of institution, which is called the Admission for subsequent reintegration. The other thing that made an impression is the change in art. 24, which is motivated as a precision of the text. Article 24 actually has two aspects. One is who should track down the families of these persons, and the other is who should take care of them when this person is a child. It is obvious that the second question is clear "the Agency for Child Protection. But who should look for the children's families? This para is proposed. Two down. Most likely, considering that the authorities that are identified in this law do not actually have a practical opportunity to do so or such powers and will remain a void if it is not clear which authority, and most likely the Ministry of Interior should have expressed the opinion Mr. Zarkov. On the basis of the presented bill and following the subsequent vote, the Commission on the interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints with 14 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings, No 902-01-36, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote 128 MPs: 122 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONSERVATION OF THE PUBLIC REGION IN THE REGION OF SPORTS. People's representatives Slavcho Atanasov, Boriana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev are importing. You have the floor to present the Report of the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order during Sports Events, No 954-01-64, submitted by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev on 5 September 2019. At its regular meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order during Sports Events, No 954-01-64, submitted by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev on 5 September 2019. The meeting was attended by Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov Deputy Director of the Sofia Directorate of Interior, and Mr. Assen Markov, Secretary General of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Yordan Yordanov, who pointed out that the Law proposed the annulment of the texts relating to the personalization of tickets for access to the sports facility, the reading of the personal cards of the visitors, the non-sale of tickets on the day of the sporting event, if defined as risky, and the protection and storage of personal data. The change is proposed in order to ensure maximum protection of citizens' personal data, as well as to avoid their incorrect interpretation and application, taking into account the increasing risks to cybersecurity and the need to pay attention to the protection of personal data. The cancellation of the sale of tickets to a cashier on the day of the holding of the sporting event, where it is defined as a high-risk event, is dictated by a subsequent assessment of the impact of the norm, which proves ineffective and creates a potential for escalation of riots. The texts relating to access to the sport event will be described in detail and refined in preparations at the National Assembly a new Law on Safety and Security at Sports Events, which is based entirely on the basic principles of the new Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 July 2016, for which the Law was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 July 2019. The Ministry of Interior through Senior Commissioner Anton Zlatanov and the Ministry of Youth and Sports through Asen Markov expressed full support of the bill, as well as of the proposal of the importers, the texts concerning access to the sport event to be refined and more detailed in the new law. During the discussion took part the people representative Ivan Chenchev, who expressed support on the proposals, while stressing that the measures related to the customization of the tickets should be developed in detail in the new law. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held with 17 votes, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order during Sports Events, No 954-01-64, submitted by the National Representatives Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Jordan Jordanov and Manoil Manev on 5 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order has the floor for the presentation of the Report of the Commission, Dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events, No 954-01-64, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev on 5 September 2019. At its regular meeting, held on 11 September 2019, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sports events, No 954-01-64, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Asen Markov Chief Secretary; by the Ministry of Interior: Antoine Petkov Chief Jurissult at the Directorate-General of National Police. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Manoil Manev. The bill is dictated by an analysis of dynamically changing practice, reflected also in the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 July 2016, which is to be ratified by the National Assembly. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is proposed to repeal para. 3, 7 and 8, as well as the cancellation of para. 5 relating to a ban on selling tickets to a cashier on the day of holding the sporting event when it is defined as a high-risk event. At present, there is a working group formed in the National Assembly which develops a whole new Law on Safety and Security during sporting events, which is based entirely on the basic principles of the new Convention. It is also necessary that texts relating to access to the sport event be refined in the new law in order to ensure maximum protection of citizens' personal data. The bill will contribute to a more effective and effective legislative policy in the fight against riots during football matches and sports events. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 14 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment to the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 954-01-64, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Boryana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev on 5 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. For presentation by an importer Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In July 2018, on the initiative of MPs, with the support of the Ministry of Sport and the Ministry of Interior, urgent legislative changes were initiated in the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the conduct of sporting events. The reason for this was a few unpleasant incidents. Following the subsequent assessment of the impact of legislative changes, it has been found that many of them are extremely effective for good work and have good results. Such are for example: the definition of the term "sport hooliganism"; more powers of the Ministry of Interior when imposing a ban on attending sports meetings; more serious fines for performing anti-social events during sports events. With the entry into force of the amendments to the Law, according to the data of the Ministry of Interior, a double reduction in the use of pyrotechnic means is taken into account and increased the number of forced administrative measures imposed which have a preventive and deterrent effect. However, two measures are proposed to be repealed under this bill at this stage. The first one is required to customize the ticket in order to increase the control of the access of the sports site in order to be more easily recognized by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior persons who performed hooligan events; the access of the visitor to the sports facility to be done by reading the personal card of the visitor from a personal document scanner is para. Art. 3 of art. 11. The subsequent impact assessment has shown that the introduction of this requirement requires serious investment and cannot, moreover, be attributed to all sports facilities and all sporting events. At the moment, there is a working group formed in the National Assembly which develops a whole new law on safety and security during sporting events, which is based on the basic principles of the new Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sports events signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 July 2016, for which a Bill was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 July 2019. In this sense, we believe that the texts relating to access to sports events need to be refined and more detailed in the new law in order to avoid incorrect interpretation and to ensure maximum protection of citizens' personal data. The latter is particularly important in view of the need to pay attention to the protection of personal data and the ever increasing risks to cybersecurity. The second point is the other thing that we propose under this bill is the cancellation of para. 5 of art. 11 relating to a ban on the sale of tickets to a cashier on the day of hosting sporting events where they are defined as high-risk events. At the moment, after a subsequent assessment of the effect of the norm, it has proved ineffective and creates a potential risk of escalating riots. It is also necessary to make this norm subject to public discussion in the preparation of the new law in order to see to what extent it is applicable in our terms. Colleagues, in the light of these objective circumstances, please support this bill at first reading, and we are ready to consider between first and second reading all the proposals that you submit for revision or changes in the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have a word for it. Dear Mr. Manev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will be very brief to explain why I appeal to you to support this bill and the changes in it. Firstly, because this is one of the laws in the National Assembly, which proves that legislation can be made without being done in spite of it. That is, when we see that in its entirety some of the elements of a norm are not working, we can safely stand up front and cancel it. This is one good thing that happens with the cancellation of these texts. The other thing is that in the end both texts create very special conditions, which we first tried to introduce into the legislation and which proved that they simply did not have the time. The ban on the sale of tickets on the day of the sports event, which was declared risky, didn't really change anything. We shifted the clusters from the crates and sent them to individuals, which is even more risky in my opinion and according to the experts who have spoken, so there is no reason to leave these texts there. As for the text relating to the personal tickets, identification numbers and names of people on the tickets, I believe that in the new law, which is being discussed at the moment, as Mr. Atanasov said, there is much to consider about the very form of this thing called a ticket, which will enter the events as a carrier, such as the functionality of its use, protection against any abuse on it. So we shouldn't go ahead and put the wagon in front of the horse, but develop in the new law a clear and accurate vision that will work in a complex with the whole law. Finally, however, I would like to add something that I have also said in the committees, and I will repeat from this tribune, and whenever we talk about this law and this legislation, about fighting sports hooliganism: no one should accept that we are making any retreat from the security measures in the withdrawal and the cancellation of these two texts. Believe me, I am the last person, colleagues, who will ask you to take a step back from the security measures. Let us also know the organizers of sports events, and all related to sporting events, that the dynamics in sports hooliganism change with each passing day. In the circle of the joke, the contestants moved from football stadiums even in the chess competitions as long as there are "Levski" and CSKA, and then it gets tense. Therefore, the measures in the new law, which are also discussed in the working group, will not be a retreat and there will be no step back. They simply need to be functional, to be genuine, and to do their work. That is, to protect anyone who has gone to watch a sporting event... his life and his health. So I invite you: let us all unanimously support this law and show that we can make legislation without it being some kind of infirmity to stay or to remove it at any cost, but simply to be functional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! He's right, Mr. Manev. We have just discussed here in the Chamber and in the working groups, of course, both in the Commission and in the meetings that we have made and which preceded what we are talking about right now, these two measures must be dropped. We absolutely agree. Another question is when we introduced them, if you remember, the so-called emergency measures for this sports hooliganism because of the incident with the police officer, I must assure the MPs that the measures we then took and signed are working and effective. Times have reduced the throwing of these dangerous homemade bombs in the stadiums, which means that we all here have largely done our job at least in this part, which can only please me. Both texts. The first one to cancel the ticket sale must happen. In the risky matches, I have to reassure the MPs again, the police do their job and say: the tickets sold on the day of the match to be sold to separate crates, where, of course, there are buffer zones and one canvas is not allowed to mix with the other. In fact, there will be no danger, and there is no danger that this text will be removed. As far as the other one is concerned, ticket customization is something that is practiced in Europe, and we can only borrow good practices. We tried to do it. Clubs are currently in violation because this text has been in effect since August 8th, but all clubs are not ready. Evidence of this is the letter which was sent by both "Levski" and by CSKA and other clubs to the Commission, to the Prime Minister, to the Ministry of Interior, so that the personalization at this stage can be dropped, as clubs are not ready for scanning devices. Just for the information of colleagues, let us say: the final for the Super Bowl of Europe in Istanbul, where fans from all over the world have come, Turkish authorities and Turkish police have asked the supporters, everyone who was present at the stadium, the ticket to be customized and the data on his ID card to be recorded only in relation to the number of this identity card.. there are such devices. The sports clubs in Bulgaria do not yet have this readiness. We will certainly all, however, sit down together together in the Commission and in a working group, and we will refine texts that will allow customised tickets, because we believe that this will work, especially in order to protect the lives and health of the people who attend the stadiums, that is the most important thing. Naturally, it is not only about "Levski" and CSKA, but about all matches, meetings and sports events that are declared risky. We need to support what is being proposed, and then we will fine-tune the texts agreed with the Convention and we will sit down and debate how best to clear the texts so that we are even more effective as legislators and as people who are concerned about protecting the health of fans and their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on the Protection of Public Order in Sports Events, No 954-01-64, tabled by the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Boriana Georgieva, Yordan Yordanov and Manoil Manev. They voted 123 MPs: 121, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, you see that all political forces are at the moment absolutely united in this matter. Therefore, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose a deadline for submission of proposals between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u23	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 117 MPs: 111, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR A BENEFICIARY IN THE FOUNDATION OF THE ECONOMIC SUSTAINABLE INDICATIVE For the presentation of the Foreign Policy Committee Report you have the floor, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before the report, I request a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Petko Doykov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u25	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let the Deputy Minister in. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. At a meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative signed in Sofia on 27 May 2019 and in Luxembourg on 5 June 2019. The reasons for the bill were presented by Plamen Bonchev In 2016, the Economic Sustainability Initiative was developed by the European Investment Bank in cooperation with the European Commission in response to a request from the European Council for a specific initiative aimed at rapidly mobilizing additional funding in support of the Southern Neighbourhood countries and the Western Balkans. The initiative is an integrated loan package, lightened funding and innovative instruments to support the financing of low return or high risk investments in both regions in the period 2016 - 2020. These instruments complement the necessary humanitarian aid and short-term measures to address the consequences of the migration crisis. The initiative is expected to mobilise funds of 15 billion. EUR to be targeted for specific projects. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. euros for the recruitment of which support from the international donor community is sought. The donor financial contributions will be managed under a special fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative. The funding received will be used in accordance with the general and general principles applicable to the activities of the European Investment Bank. Project eligible for funding within the Fund is carried out in the following regions and countries: Southern Neighbors of Algeria, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Palestine, Syria and Tunisia; Western Balkans - Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro and Serbia. 16 projects are currently financed in the Western Balkan countries. Overcoming the causes of increased migration is one of the biggest challenges. Dealing with migration challenges must be complex and comprehensive. So far, Bulgaria has made a financial contribution to the African Trust Fund in a total amount of EUR 550 000 and shares the understanding of the need to provide EU Member States with additional means of stability and tackling the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in African countries. At the same time, the focus of the attention of the Bulgarian country is the strengthening of the cooperation of the European Union in the field of migration and with the Western Balkan countries, which have become major transit routes with huge flows of migrants. Investments in these countries will contribute to improving transport and energy connectivity, job creation and raising the standard of living. Bulgaria's inclusion in the Initiative will be a joint contribution to tackling the most serious challenges related to development, humanitarian and migration processes that have arisen in the neighbourhood of the European Union. The Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has already included this initiative in the Trust Fund List and the Bulgarian contribution will be fully recognised as official development assistance. The financing of Bulgaria's contribution of EUR 100 000 per year for 2019 and 2020 should be carried out by the approved funds for official development aid and humanitarian aid under the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relevant year. Financial commitments for the Republic of Bulgaria arise from the Fund for Contribution to the Economic Sustainability Initiative. The order of Art. 16 of the Agreement provides as applicable law the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and there is a hypothesis in which disputes concern the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Therefore, the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Committee on Budgets and Finance. You have the floor for the presentation of the Report, Dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, your attention is: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative signed in Sofia on 27 May 2019 and Luxembourg on 5 June 2019, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. At a regular meeting held on 12 September 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative, signed in Sofia on 27 May 2019 and in Luxembourg on 5 June 2019, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. In accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union'), the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union') has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union (the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the European Communities and the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Over the past decade, the Western Balkan countries and the southern neighbours of the European Union have been exposed to a number of challenges as a result of political and economic crises. In response to these challenges, the European Investment Bank launched in 2016. The Economic Sustainability Initiative, hereinafter referred to as the Initiative. The initiative for economic sustainability was developed by the European Investment Bank in cooperation with the European Commission in response to a request from the European Council for a specific initiative aimed at rapidly mobilizing additional funding in support of the countries of the Southern Neighbourhood and the Western Balkans. The initiative is an integrated loan package, relieved funding and innovative instruments, which has been set up to facilitate the financing of investments in the two regions in the period 2016 - 2020 which, due to financial constraints, low return or high risk, are not attractive to investors. These instruments complement the necessary humanitarian aid and short-term measures to address the consequences of the migration crisis. The initiative is expected to mobilise funds of 15 billion. EUR to be targeted for specific projects. In order for the Initiative to use its full transformation potential, the European Investment Bank, its shareholders and other donors must mobilise additional funds of a total of 730 million. euros for the recruitment of which support from the international donor community is sought. Bulgaria's participation in the Initiative will contribute to our country's more visible and pro-active position in the joint efforts to address the causes of migration, in particular with regard to the Western Balkans region, which was put as a priority of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU. The OECD Development Assistance Committee has already included this Initiative in the Trust Fund List and the Bulgarian contribution will be recognised as 100 official development aid. The funding of Bulgaria's contribution amounts to BGN 195 583. EUR (100 000) per year for 2019 and 2020 and should be implemented by the approved means of official development aid and humanitarian aid under the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relevant year. There are grounds for ratification by the National Assembly under art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly with 17 votes for the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for a contribution to the Economic Sustainability Initiative Fund, signed in Sofia on 27 May 2019 and in Luxembourg on 5 June 2019, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The Committee on Legal Affairs has the floor for the presentation of the Report, dear Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At its meeting held on 11 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Plamen Bonchev, Director General of the Directorate-General for Global Affairs and Mr. Valeri Yotov, Director of the Directorate for Development and Cooperation. The bill was presented by Mr. Bonchev, who pointed out that it aims to achieve sustainable development in the countries of the Southern Neighbourhood and the Western Balkans through ratification of the Agreement and provision of a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative. He added that the Economic Sustainability Initiative is an integrated package of measures such as loans, lightened funding and innovative instruments aimed at responding to the need for humanitarian aid and addressing the consequences of migration processes occurring in the neighbourhood of the European Union. The Economic Sustainability Initiative is envisaged to mobilise funds of 15 billion. In order to achieve the objectives set, the mobilisation of an additional amount of 730 million is sought. Euros. The amount of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Fund is worth EUR 100 000 per year, with the funding of the contributions for 2019 and 2020 being made by the approved funds for official development aid and humanitarian aid under the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Participation in the Initiative is expected to contribute to addressing the challenges related to humanitarian and migration processes occurring in the neighbourhood of the European Union. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 13 votes for the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for a contribution to the Fund of the Economic Sustainability Initiative, No 902-02-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see any speeches. I'm calling off the debate. I'll introduce you to: Project! LAW on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Contribution to the Economic Sustainability Initiative Fund A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Contribution to the Economic Sustainability Initiative Fund, signed in Sofia on 27 May 2019 and in Luxembourg on 5 June 2019. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. I shall put to the vote the text presented to you. I make it clear that this is the first vote on the bill. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted "The Bill has been adopted in the first vote." You have the floor for a procedure, dear Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a procedure to be dealt with in the second vote of today's sitting by the newly adopted first-vote bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u33	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 114 MPs: 113 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u34	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Contribution to the Economic Sustainability Initiative Fund A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the European Investment Bank and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on a Contribution to the Economic Sustainability Initiative Fund, signed in Sofia on 27 May 2019 and in Luxembourg on 5 June 2019. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u35	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the name of the Law; secondly, the content of a single article; thirdly, the name of the subdivision and the content of a single paragraph. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. Importers are the national representative Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs. Dear Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-58, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 12 September 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-58, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs on 31 July 2019. Representatives of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev. The bill is drawn up in order to strengthen the personal responsibility of the mayors in the attitude towards citizens. The change is dictated by the unscrupulous behaviour observed in everyday practice by many mayors who isolate citizens, neglect their problems, disregard the opinion and wishes of the public groups and in no way make direct contact with them. Such examples are not only isolated and single phenomena, but rather become the practice and mentality of local authorities in general. Such an attitude by the administration is unacceptable under the rule of law and democratic governance, which requires the introduction of obligations for the acceptance and hearing of citizens. The project also envisions the creation of Chapter Administrative Penal Provisions, dictated by the need to ensure strict compliance with the obligations that the Law imposes on mayors, as well as the imposition of sanctions for their violation or failure to comply. According to importers, the proposed changes will achieve greater publicity and transparency in decision-making, participation of citizens in the management and creation of active local communities, which will define local policies and development guidelines. The National Association of Municipalities does not support the Bill. The opinion, expressed also during the Commission's meeting, disagreed with the proposed changes, noting that there are not only reception days in the practice of a number of municipalities, but also better and diverse examples of interaction with citizens than those proposed with the amendments to the Law. Neither the proposed administrative penal provisions nor the excessiveness of sanctions are shared. During the discussion, the majority of the MPs who spoke supported the opinion of the municipalities. In the positions expressed it was pointed out that the logic of importers for admission days for meetings with citizens is supported, but they can find regulation in the Rules on the organization and activities of the municipal council and in the Rules of Procedure of the municipal administration. With regard to sanctions, it has been noted that, in principle, penalties for non-compliance with certain obligations can be envisaged, but a more appropriate wording should be found and a more appropriate systematic location should be sought in another regulatory act. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 1 vote, 6 votes against abstention and 7 votes abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that a Law amending and supplement the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-58, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs should not be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to present the opinion of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law on local self-government and local administration is the basic law that regulates the status, functions and powers of individual local authorities. The law on local self-government and local administration also guarantees citizens the right to participate in local self-government and describes the ways in which this is carried out. The law defines the concept of local self-government, such as the right and the real possibility of citizens and their elected authorities to decide within the framework of the Law an essential part of the public affairs of their own responsibility and in the interests of the territorial community. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration is designed to strengthen the personal responsibility of each mayor of the municipality or region in relation to the mayor's highest mission, namely his attitude towards the citizens, as his authority derives precisely from them. The change is dictated by the unscrupulous behaviour observed in everyday practice by some mayors in the country who isolate citizens, neglect their problems, disregard the opinion and desire of public groups and in no way make direct contact with them. Such examples are not only isolated and single phenomena, but rather become the practice and mentality of local authorities in general. Such an attitude on the part of the administration is unacceptable under the rule of law and democratic governance of the Republic of Bulgaria, which requires the introduction of compulsory authorities suppose the requesting administration to implement, in particular, the adoption and hearing of citizens as part of the rights to participate in the local self-government given to them by the Law. The project explicitly regulates obligations under the heading. Article 20 44, para. 1 for the mayor of the municipality, respectively of the district mayor, to accept and listen to citizens on certain days. The terms and procedure for acceptance and hearing of citizens shall be validated by an order and the information shall be published on the website of the municipality. The reception days are the living link between the citizens and their mayor and are being held in order to realise the opportunity for citizens to personally place their problems, questions and proposals before the person they have chosen to manage the settlement. Hearing citizens in precisely defined days and hours of the week is required by the practice to provide technological time to resolve the issues posed by the previous reception, for timely competent and effective resolution of their applications and proposals. The project also includes the creation of Chapter Administrative Penal Provisions, dictated by the need to ensure strict compliance with the obligations which the Law entrusts to the mayor in art. 44, para. 1. With the establishment of Chapter "Administrative Penal Provisions" more control will be guaranteed in respect of the implementation of the time limits under art. 44, para. 1, t. 18 and para. 5. The proposed changes also achieve greater publicity and transparency in decision making, participation of citizens in government, the creation of active local communities to define local policies and guidelines of development, as well as compliance with the supreme principle laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where in art. 1, para. 2 is written: The entire government derives from the people. It shall be carried out by it immediately and through the bodies provided for by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u40	Colleagues, I'll be too short. These are our official motives for me and the colleagues who tabled this proposal. In principle, after eight years of mayorship, I believe that the law on local self-government and local administration is not a bad law, a good law on Bulgarian law, but for vague reasons is missed this moment in the duties of the mayor, where he should have a reception day for the citizens. In my opinion, this should be mandatory for him for a very simple reason. I read very carefully the opponents on this change, and the objections. One of them is that, you see, this was a technical issue, it should not be in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, but in the Rules of the Municipal Council. In my experience, I have to tell you that this is a non-serious statement as a motive, because you know that in the municipal council very often, I do not say: always, but very often a large part of the majority belongs to the mayor. It's like he's got himself involved, he's got the municipal council and his councilmen following his policy, putting together an obligation to accept citizens. Many mayors have a reception day, but there are emblematic examples in the country where this is not happening. There have been mayors for eight years, they don't have a single day for citizens. Let me not point them out from the stands of the National Assembly, because it would still be an incorrect insult to them. Okay, in motive, this motive somehow exhales for other reasons. Here is an example of the mayor's duties in a local place in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 10, art. 45, notice, colleagues, what is involved as the imperial duty of the mayor. I read the Law verbatim, t. 10: Supports links with political parties, excellent! I add: wonderful! ? and movements, as well as other bodies of local self-government in the country and abroad. Great text, but where are the citizens?! Where is the ordinary citizen in this text?! He's nowhere! Nowhere is Ivan Stoyanov Draganov that he has the right to go to his mayor! He's nowhere in the Law, and we're telling the mayor that he's obliged to maintain relations with political parties. Great, they express the weight of a lot of people. But you know that political parties clearly do not express the burdens of the entire population. Many of the people are not party and do not belong to any party. This argument is extremely unsympathetic that it is necessary, through the Rules of the Municipal Council, to take this into account accordingly as the mayor's obligation. Of course we have to get into the Law. And the second argument I'm ashamed to say it from the stand, but in the debates it was like this: let the mayors now oblige them to walk by order to the sanitary nodes. This is not a serious attitude to this so serious issue. And the last argument is that it was pure populism. [[GERB lines.]] Why is it pure populism? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I ask: why is it pure populism? Is it a fact that many mayors don't accept citizens? Is it a fact that they haven't been accepted in years? It's a fact. Let's not set an example with myself because I was accused of populism. Eight years as mayor, I've accepted citizens every day. Every day! And as Regional Mayor of Trakiya and as Mayor of Plovdiv every day I had a reception day. Is it populism that I have accepted citizens every day for eight years?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But my heir for eight years didn't have a single day of acceptance for citizens. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u41	Mr. Atanasov, thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? You have the floor, dear Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I respect your opinion of an importer and I think it is extremely important that the mayors have direct contact with the citizens. However, whether this thing should be introduced through a binding norm in the Law, here we distinguish ourselves in our opinions. I really believe that this is a technical issue that should not be included in a law, that is, to set a specific day and time when the mayor should meet with the citizens. By the same logic, we should also determine the specific working hours of the mayor through the Law from how many hours to how many hours to work. On the other hand, in today's dynamic time and the various means of communication there are many opportunities and options for the mayor to be close to the citizens and to communicate with them, one of which is the example of the platform. Most mayors have websites, they have chats that can collect this information and communicate with their citizens. Last but not least, a mayor who does not have direct contact with the citizens will most likely not be elected to a next term as mayor, and if some mayor has not been in contact with the citizens, and then was elected mayor, he probably did his job well and the citizens did not need to see him. So our opinion is: yes, it is important for mayors to maintain direct contact with citizens, but we do not believe that this should be regulated in the Law through a specific day and hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u43	Thank you, dear Sirakov. Are there any lines? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Sirakov, I cannot agree with you that the issue is merely technical. If it was just technical, then by that logic let's cancel the item. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 45 of the mayor's powers, where it is written that he maintains links with political parties, public organizations and movements, as well as with other bodies of local self-government in the country and abroad. And this is a purely technical issue, and it is introduced as an imperative norm in the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. In no case can I agree that it is technical and that it should not be legally settled, all the more so that the bill provides for the mayor himself to determine the terms and conditions for holding this reception day. In other words, it is entirely in his discretions that it is his right to determine when it will be once a week, whether it will be one hour, or two hours, to meet with citizens. I cannot accept that we have to introduce virtual mayors who exist on the Internet, and in the real world they are not, and with real people, with their real problems they do not meet, respond to them and do not solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? You have the floor, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Sirakov, with great respect to you and to your fellow Members, I would disagree with some parts of your speech. You say: there are modern methods of communication with citizens. Yeah, but they're not enough. No one denies communicating with the mayor electronically, but let us also recall some of the mayor's obligations, which, by the way, are not being respected by many mayors now. For example, the mayor should make, notice, a public report to the citizens of the village each year. Many mayors do not now comply with the Law, which is also an imperative norm. Public report! Do you understand what that means? That means face-to-face seeing his constituents, not on the Internet. Eye-to-eye with your constituents! A lot of mayors don't respect that. And I'll tell you something else: since the mayor will only contact his voters electronically, let him be a virtual person, not to campaign, not to go to meetings with citizens, and then not to want to see them, and to choose him only on the Internet. It looks very beautiful on the Internet, there photoshop to work well, make it Mr. World or Miss World, if it's a woman, and no contact with the citizens at all. From your logic, that's how it should be. Once he's elected mayor, he'll only contact by electronic means, let's select him by electronic means. Not when elections come, to go from person to person and to meet different citizens, but when he became mayor: who were you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. And third line, Mr. Angelov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u48	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Sirakov, with all due respect to you, you claim that the mayors have mechanisms to report or see citizens or contact citizens anyway. Then what is the problem of supporting this bill at first reading? What's the problem with regulating this thing that you claim they're doing? I have observations throughout the country and I know that in certain places, and in Bulgaria, certain mayors have become feudals no matter what political party they come from. These people must be obliged to meet with citizens so that citizens can land them so that citizens can tell them in their eyes what they think, and there is nothing wrong with that. I hope that the Bill will be supported at first reading because it is something that is in the right direction not only for mayors, but also for all electoral positions in Bulgaria. There must be more contact with the citizens, the opinion of the citizens should be heard whether we like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Sirakov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not intend to enter into a debate that concerns our views on the role of the mayor and how he should perform his duties. Personally, I believe that the mayor should and can be close to the citizens through his administration, and it is more important that the services be close and accessible to the citizens, rather than the physical personality of the mayor be close to the citizens. If the mayor is the mayor of a multimillion-dollar city, for example, 10 or 20 million-dollar city, how will he make direct contact with his citizens? We can see that's not necessary. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the quoted text, which empowers the mayor to meet with political parties and NGOs. Yes, this text gives such powers, but at the same time does not oblige him to do these things in a particular day and hour. Similarly, the mayor may be meeting with the citizens, but we should not oblige him to do so with the specifics of when to do this and how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u51	Thank you, dear Sirakov. We continue with the speeches. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I do not accept the statement in the reasons of the Bill that in everyday practice there is an unfair attitude by many mayors to the problems of the population, that they neglect their problems and do not take into account the opinion and desire of the public groups. On the contrary, what I observe on the ground is that the mayors and the administration are in constant contact with the people. In addition, there are extremely many opportunities for interaction between the citizens and the local authorities to participate in meetings of municipal councils and Standing Committees, to speak and provide positions and proposals, to make inquiries and complaints and to receive answers. Citizens can actively participate in budget discussions, development plans, regulations that concern life in a municipality, for example in terms of public order, environmental protection and others. The form of direct contact with the people has always been active meetings and reports on neighborhoods and villages. There are also certain forms of reception of signals and complaints, as well as opinions about the services in municipalities. In addition, the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, with its repeated amendments, achieves a balance in relations, in the interaction and responsibilities of the two independent authorities in the local government. This balance is sometimes fragile. The mayor is, of course, personally responsible for his actions, unlike the municipal council, for both financial sanctions and criminal liability. There are many areas for which responsibilities are provided for the mayor and corresponding penalties for their failure, such as waste management, illegal landfills, dam maintenance and others. The proposal for sanctions for certain obligations of the mayor to the municipal council by submitting reports twice a year for the implementation of the acts of the municipal council, reporting within a three-day period of acts, contracts and their amendments, a management programme for the term of office and reports by 31 January for each passing year, these sanctions seem excessive to me. Sometimes there are solutions that take time to realize or are virtually impossible. This is often due to the political differences between the mayor and the majority in municipal councils. In my opinion, the role of the President of the Municipal Council as an activator is, to put it mildly, not feasible. The President of the Municipal Council shall be an activator and the District Governor shall sign the penal decrees. Who will draw up these acts? In the small municipalities and in the unit of the municipal council there is sometimes only one person appointed who has a lot of work to do in preparation of the meetings of the permanent committees and the meetings of the municipal council, as well as with the processing of the mandatory documents on the decisions taken. This is an extremely incorrect and very clumsy proposal. Dear colleagues, instead of dealing with this, I would like to say that we have much more important things ahead of us. We are about to adopt the 2020 budget. What municipalities will receive is very important for the local policies they will implement as local revenues decline. And instead of dealing with these issues, we should look at the Strategy for the Decentralisation of Municipalities for the period 2016 - 2025 and the Strategy Implementation Programme adopted by Decision No 735 of 8 September 2016 of the Council of Ministers. This will have much greater importance for municipalities than this bill. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. - What's the line? You have the floor, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, you have administrative experience and I listened very carefully to your speech. With a lot of what you're saying, I agree. But I never said that all mayors don't have a day. You're right here, especially in small towns, they want to, they don't want to, they see people. The problem is in the district cities, Mr. Dinkov. That's where the dog was buried on that problem. In the big cities is the problem and here I no longer agree with you. There are a number of mayors who don't have a reception day for citizens. If you meet him, since the finale of your speech was a little bit...why are you beating the Negroes?............................................................................................................................................................................... the.................................................................. Yes, what you say about budgets and the independence of municipalities is extremely important. What, though, does this equally important problem have to do with the mayor being close to his people? ...and I'll tell you something else, Mr. Dinkov. Legendary mayors of the world read their books, you must have read them: "The Leadership of Rudolf Giuliani" "The Mayor of New York; "Luzhkov" the Mayor of Moscow, and our neighbor Kadir Topbash, declared in Mexico City three years ago for the best mayor in the world. Three terms of mayor of Istanbul. He won the Istanbul election by over 85%. What are these three mayors doing with over 20 million people in all three cities, you know?! Admission day for citizens have these three mayors. Read the books of all three. Admission day for ordinary citizens.. Mayors of twenty million cities!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Dinkov? You don't. We continue with the speeches. There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-58, submitted by the National Representative Slavcho Atanasov and a group of MPs. 125 MPs voted: 18, 20, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. Let's continue with: REPORT OF THE INTERVIEW COMMISSION ON EXPORT CONTROL AND INDISTINCT DISTRIBUTION OF THE ARMY FOR MACHINE DESTRUCTURING TO THE MINISTER OF THE ECONOMIC OF THE IMPLEMENTING THE LAW FOR EXPORTAL CONTROL OF PRODUCTS RELATED TO THE RECEIVED AND OF ARTICLES AND TECHNOLOGIES WITH DUAL USE FOR 2018 Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee has the floor to present the opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u56	Colleagues, I ask first for permission in the hall of Natalia Peaovska. Head of Department at the Directorate of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security and Maya Stoilova, State Expert in the Directorate of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security, Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u57	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u58	Dear colleagues! "COMMODITY" on the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2018, No 902-00-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 11 September 2019 discussed and discussed the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister; Natalia Perovska Head of the Department of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security, Tsvetelina Pancheva and Maya Stoilova State Experts in the Directorate of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security. The report was presented by Deputy Minister Ivanova. The aim of the report is to provide detailed information related to the responsible and consistent policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of export control of defence-related products and dual-use items and technologies that our country carries out in accordance with its commitments under multilateral regimes and arrangements in the field of export control, taking into account the sanctions imposed by the UN Security Council, the European Union and the OSCE. The report also presents the scope of the national system for export control and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the regulatory base, control bodies and lists of controlled products related to defence and dual-use items. In the first main direction: defence-related products, the so-called CSR, in 2018. The Interdepartmental Commission issued a total of 887 authorisations. The Report does not include information on authorisations or certificates to carry out temporary and reversible exports or transfers for repair, demonstrations and others. The Interdepartmental Commission has issued 524 authorisations/export certificates and transfers of SPOs from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The total value of the authorisations granted is 1 billion. 44 million. euros, with most of the exports being made is for Saudi Arabia, India, Afghanistan, USA, Turkey and Algeria. In 2018, exports and transfers of SSOs from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria totaled 766 million were made. Euros. 363 import and transfer permits or certificates have been issued for the territory of the CPC country for a total value of 412 million. euros from Serbia, Germany and the United States. The total value of the imports and transfers made on the territory of the country is 177 million. euros, with most of the imports and transfers made, are from Serbia, Romania and Slovakia. Over the period 140 international import certificates have been issued. In 2018, the Interdepartmental Commission issued 87 authorisations for transit and transport of SSOs through the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, 12 authorisations for brokerage transactions with SSOs and 32 authorisations for participation in international trade exhibitions of SSOs. The Commission has refused to grant one export authorisation, one transfer permit from the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and one transit authorisation for the CPC. According to the second main department of dual-use items and technologies, the Minister of Economy issued 8 certificates for the registration of export and transfer of dual-use items and technology and one certificate of right to carry out brokerage activities with them, for which a public register is maintained. In 2018, exports and transfers of more than 7.3 million were made within this group of products. Euros. This figure includes exports carried out and export authorisations issued by 2017 in this respect. In 2018, 27 individual export authorisations were granted for a total of 23,8 million. EUR, with 12 of them no exports realised. The total amount of exports made under individual authorisations is more than 6.4 million. Euros. In 2018, one permit was issued for construction of drilling in Bulgaria's economic zone in the Black Sea. In 2018, an individual authorisation for the transfer of dual-use items and technologies of 1,0 million was granted to the Interdepartmental Commission. Euros. The value of the realized transfer of dual-use items is nearly 900 thousand. Euros. 72 certificates were issued for imports of dual-use items and technologies worth nearly 75 million. EUR, the total value of the imports made is more than 112 million. EUR (including 6 import certificates issued in 2017)). The Interdepartmental Commission in 2018 did not issue authorisations for the transit of dual-use items and technologies and authorisations for brokerage transactions with them. In 2018, the Interdepartmental Commission issued refusals on four applications for export and transfer and no registration of imports of dual-use items and technologies was refused. Deputy Minister Ivanova informed the MPs of a technical error in Annex No 2 to the Report. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to take the following decision on the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2018. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-18.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, you have a say in this. I can't see. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. Sustained. Honourable Members of Parliament, the next regular plenary session shall be from 9:00 p.m. on 19 September 2019 under the adopted work programme. We're adjourned.
