ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-12.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Abort registration. Next registration in five minutes. The entire parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is not registered, so there is no one to gather. We expect them to register. Five minutes, guys! 9:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-12.u2	Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to take their seats. Dear colleagues, please register regime. Abort registration. BSP and DPS do not register, although they are in the hall. Third attempt in 10 minutes, colleagues. 9:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-12.u3	Colleagues, please take your seats. Third attempt at registration. Cancel registration. Colleagues, today the National Assembly will not sit, we have no quorum. However, I would ask you to wait, because today is an important day, and if anyone does not remember what happened today, we would note... [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: Tomorrow, tomorrow!]] Today is the 28th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by the Seventh Grand National Assembly. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: Tomorrow, tomorrow!]] You can celebrate tomorrow, your problem! This is the longest implementation of the basic law in Bulgaria after the Tarnovo Constitution, which reflected the deep social and political changes in Bulgaria, established democracy and became a foundation for the construction of today's state. The Constitution met the expectations of Bulgarian citizens to remove the totalitarian system and to guarantee civil and human rights and freedoms. It, together with the amendments made over the years, has enabled Bulgaria to realize its goals and become part of the European democratic family. Dear colleagues, this year we celebrated 140 years of Bulgarian parliament and recalled the case of the fathers of the Third Bulgarian State. They adopted the Tarnovo Constitution, whose principles, values and spirit are enshrined in the modern Constitution. With all our activities, including our mistakes and shortcomings, we are part of the Bulgarian parliamentary tradition. Unfortunately, we're not a role model today. Happy Thanksgiving! At your desks you have as a gift from the National Assembly on a book you can look at. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB and OP. Replies from DPS: Is this a procedure? What procedure is this?]]
