ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the following additional item be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly: the termination of the powers of the National Representative is resigned by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 28 March 2019 and I propose that he be the first item for tomorrow's meeting and the other points be renumbered. Please, voting mode. They voted 147 MPs: 146, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. To the President of the National Assembly: Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill submitted by us on 27 March 2019 amending the Law on Radio and Television, No 954-01-18. Importers: Toma Bikov, Evgeni Budinov and Velislava Krasteva. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR VEROIZATIONS. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye on 31 January 2019, adopted on the first vote on 8 March 2019. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! During the months of November and December last year, we examined at first and second reading the amendments to the Religions Act, which resulted in severe problems. Just a month later, in order to correct the mistakes and misconceptions in the bill adopted then, the current changes that we are dealing with have been tabled. These changes, as they come into plenary today for second reading, I assure you, are in a position to again create severe and unsolvable problems, which will have to be corrected again in the future. There are at least three extremely controversial problems, and in this law, we have always insisted that there should be consensus, if not consensus, to a greater extent that there should be agreement between the political forces. That is why I am proposing to postpone the review of the Bill, once again dealing with the Legal Commission, there are such legal possibilities under our rules and to review the texts again. I assure you, consider, and today in the Chamber you will see what problems arise, in the Muslim religion there are extremely severe collisions. In the Committee on Religions and Human Rights there were opinions and opinions other than the official ones and considerations that the DPS expressed. You will see that what we will do will be a prerequisite for a very difficult problem in the Muslim religion itself. Therefore, once again, I ask you to put to the vote a delay in considering this bill today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. I'll put your proposal to the vote. Colleagues, I'm putting Mr. Shopov's proposal to postpone the viewing of this bill. They voted 144 MPs: 35 against 31, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Alexieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention a report for the second vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act, No 954-01-4, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi on 31 January 2019. The Law on Religions is amended and supplemented by the Law on Religions. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u5	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. 135 MPs voted: 133, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u6	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new paragraph is being Article 3 is replaced by the following: 21a: Art. 21a. (1) A religion to which a state subsidy has been granted may further finance its activities only from sources of income in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The activities of the spiritual schools of pre-school and school education and higher spiritual schools may be financed additionally only by means administered by Bulgarian state and municipal institutions or by means of EU funds and programmes. (3) The religions to which a state subsidy has been granted, the spiritual schools of the system of pre-school and school education and higher spiritual schools shall notify the Department of Faiths of the Council of Ministers of any donation or inheritance of property by Bulgarian legal persons or with a source from abroad. (4) No donation of funds from foreign countries or foreigners shall be allowed for activities financed by the State subsidy granted. (5) The Department of Religious Religions shall control the fulfillment of the will of the donor or successor. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u7	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the only meaningful text in the entire Law that we are about to look at the only text that guarantees national interest and shows that we, as people's chosen ones, are thinking about its interests. This is the text which, after the Bill of Mr. Karadayi and Mr. Tsvetanov, who had to give gifts to the Muslim religion, returned things to where they started. This is the text by which we want to ban the financing from abroad of faiths, or at least of those faiths that actually receive state support, that is, the state has made a commitment, set aside tens of millions for their existence. Moreover, these same religions have sufficient ownership, generate sufficient income from this property and their maintenance, the salaries of their ministers, all with which they support both spiritual and organizational life, is guaranteed once by the state, the second time by their property. There is no reason why this text should not be adopted. If we are MPs who think about national interest and national security, this text must be adopted unanimously. I know that many in the Chamber, regardless of various party decisions, think as we think......................................................................................... I call on them all: get out of the narrow framework of party thinking, out of thinking about the specific political benefit of the moment, out of thinking about what religion will say and respectively what its chief priests will say about our decision. We are Bulgarian MPs, we must serve the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian national interest. Anyone who supports this text will prove in a case that they do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Any lines to Mr. Veselinov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u10	The theme of the financing of religion is a topic that accompanies the entire transition. That was the reason why we started making the November-December amendments, now these. It all began the final stage for solving the problem, from a meeting with the President, to which everyone is referring. There was a consensus on this very issue, the state to start caring for faiths and the main two biggest ones to end the payment from abroad, not only by Dianatta, which is public, undoubtedly, clear and known, but also by what other hidden and whatnot, what to call them, sources of the Arab world, very often by environments and forces that have nothing to do with traditional Islam and who are frankly terrorist in all views and understandings in the modern world. That, fellow Members, I think it was obvious, indisputable for everyone. That is why we went with this enthusiasm to make these changes to stop funding from abroad. What happened to these last repairs? This is one of at least three proposals that clearly blow up our hall, our conscience and all life, political and financial logic. It really is a matter of national security and it is logical when someone from abroad finances a religion in your country, it turns out, national security is at stake. There's nothing more logical than that. We are astonished at this text, which, I think, cannot raise doubts as absolutely any logic, both political and legal, and financial, and in view of national security. I'm sorry the BSP colleagues aren't here. If they were here, I am absolutely sure that this text would have been accepted. I am sure that they would have submitted such a text, and during the review November and December of the main amendments to the Religious Law they had a clear, undisputed position. At that time, we all had a firm and clear position. Now this text suddenly came out of nowhere about this problem. We decide it in one way that is the easiest, most elegant, the two religions that receive money from the state cannot receive money from abroad and that's all. That's it! Vote it, but you will see that the following texts here raise no less doubt and are even more conflicting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Shopov, I absolutely disagree with your speech. You're in a big mistake. If BSP were here, they wouldn't support our proposal. You can be sure. The BSP has always been a reference for chameleonism in their conduct in parliament. Do you remember the month of December 2016 when we adopted the 2017 budget? Then we had made a proposal for a minimum pension of 300 leva. With their voices, this proposal would have passed. We didn't have four votes. I don't know if you remember?! Now we can reveal the details of this entire action, which we had organized at the time the composition of the Patriotic Front and with your support of the "Attack" as a separate party then. Before the meeting, we had a meeting with the management of the BSP. They committed themselves to supporting such a proposal and did not do so in this House. So don't be naive, it doesn't suit you at your age. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u13	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Shopov, will he have the back? No. Here's your speech, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This proposal by the United Patriarchs really wants to guarantee the national security of the state. He wants to ensure the non-interference of foreign countries in domestic, including not only religious but also political activity in Bulgaria. It is clear to all of us that countries that support certain faiths do not tell all religions, but certain faiths, through this religion, then influence both politics and the domestic life of the country. That's clear to everyone! Why do we have to close our eyes on something like this? The state really makes it possible to allocate more funding for religion, to be more independent and not dependent on foreign countries. We do not agree with the Turkish state or countries of the Arab world to finance the Muslim religion in Bulgaria. We simply disagree because they impose other currents of Islam, impose direct interference in the decisions of this religious community, including in political decisions. We all know that they define and tell us how to vote, including in elections. I think that in the parliamentary elections this was best understood by colleagues from the DPS when a state intervened to campaign through the creed for another party. That's a fact, and we shouldn't close our eyes. We see that faiths in Bulgaria have declared against this proposal. It's not clear to me why they're doing this?! For example, it is not clear to me why the Bulgarian Orthodox Church would be against such a thing, given that we remember the struggle of the Bulgarian clergy for an independent Bulgarian church, for the Bulgarian Exarchy, for how to protect the Bulgarian spiritual life and the Bulgarian people from assimilation and foreign intervention?! And nowadays, unfortunately, with donations and all kinds of other things we see in the churches and monasteries in Bulgaria everywhere the Byzantine eagle, not the Bulgarian lion, everywhere icons in Greek and not in Bulgarian. Here, the state has taken measures, it will grant more funding. That is, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church will be able to do all these things alone, which did not reach in time, rather than rely on foreign churches and countries, in order to really continue that work of those holy clergymen who were during the Bulgarian revival, who defended the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian Church, and subsequently defended the Bulgarian state. So I really call on you: support this proposal of ours to protect the country's national security, to really allow Bulgarian religions to be independent, not dependent on other countries. That way we can help them too. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u15	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there lines? I can't see. Come in for a speech, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! The subject is very serious and I want to make it clear because with a lot of things said by colleagues on the right, I agree. To remind you. Perhaps only Mr. Shopov of the Nationalists was present in the Commission, perhaps someone else would not offend someone when the Law was being observed, not this amendment of the Law, and when the two laws were being observed. I remind my colleagues on the right hand side of their Law there was such a text in the other text signed by Mr. Karadayi, by Mr. Tsvetanov and Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, there was the same text as the ban on financing outside. We had a consensus here. What happened, honourable Members, in discussing the combined two bills in one? All creeds, absolutely all but Muslim, have declared themselves against this text. There is an explicit recording of which I asked the Muslim religion whether they are against this text? I'll pull the transcript if you don't remember. They said: "No, we are not against this text. But everyone else objected very strongly and very strongly to both in writing and in oral and in debate and in any other way. Thus, all of us had to comply with their request, as well as a number of other texts to be dropped. For example, there were texts in both bills that included the obligation to disclose donors over a certain amount. And that's out of the question. I want you to have that clarity. I'll tell you something more. Since it is here that there is an opinion that when there are financing outside, there are dependencies of some faiths, I can assure you that there are dependencies of all faiths when they are financed from outside. Would you like me to give you an example from the last week that no one has paid attention to? In the Commission all the time a representative of the United Protestant Church was lawyer Greta Ganeva. Is that how I ask the President of the Commission? That's right! Did you know she's a lawyer at the anti-corruption forum who did what happened last week? I'm just saying, you should know from GERB. These things should be seen under a magnifying glass when we, as Bulgarian MPs, make decisions. But we cannot overcome the resistance and reluctance of all faiths to prevent these texts from finding a place in the Religions Act. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament has also changed its position and voted against this text and not for any other reason. There are shorthands, and that's obvious from everywhere. I wanted to clarify that so there wouldn't be any suggestion that, you see, this is about Muslim religion. It's not about him. Even in this case, it's not about him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Here's your first line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I agree with absolutely everything you said in your speech. It's not about sharing the creeds of Muslim, evangelical or Orthodox. I must tell you that one of the most serious protests about funding was precisely the Orthodox Church. But in the end, Mr. Tsonev, my line is exactly that. We are not a spiritual state, a spiritual republic, as there was, you remember the Islamic Jamahiriya and so on. I'm sorry I set an example with an Islamic state. We are a republic that is governed by the People-no-no-no-no, and we have to take responsibility. Everyone in this world has said it: The person who gives the money, orders the music. We Patriots are by no means sharing faiths. We have to take responsibility. The fact that certain religions are not satisfied with the fact that the state wants to know where the funding is from and not to be financed, after all, the state is governed by us, by those who are here and not by the spiritual institutions, precisely because the spiritual institutions are extremely important for one country, I repeat, for every country, we must very carefully approach the issues of their funding. What was the whole point of what we've been doing so far about the state financing our faiths? Our, the Bulgarian state to finance them, not foreign countries, not to come funding from Scandinavian countries, for evangelists above all, not to come funding from Russia and Greece...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u19	The weather, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u20	I'm just finishing up. ...and Islam from Turkey, and especially the Wahabi Islam from Arab countries. Thank you for giving me extra time. You're right, you're absolutely right, but we have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u21	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tsonev, I thought of another way to start, but I will continue the spirit of my colleague's speech. If we bring together representatives of all industries, say, and ask the question: Do you want to have cash registers? This applies to each type of regulation state regime. Nobody wants to have regulation. Everyone prefers to be in the twilight zone, let's say. We, as representatives of the state, representatives of the people, must think about our national state interest. For this, we need a little courage, despite certain resistances, to accept what we all know is the national interest. You're clearly wrong, it's not the text the creeds used to speak. In the current text, we have quite narrowed the scope of regulation and it concerns only the faiths that are of state support. They can say, "Okay, we don't want state support, we want to get donations, and then they come out of regulation. In this regard, the text is precise and would not give rise to the resistance of smaller religious communities and faiths that actually depend entirely on external financing. It only applies to those who will take millions from the state. It is normal, taking these millions to stop taking from elsewhere, because they view our alimony as a given and everything else as a gift that they owe. This wicked relationship must end and you know that we have to end it.... you simply lack political courage. Be men all in the room and press the right button!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I thank my fellow Members for their agreement and for the opinion they have expressed. I'm going to clarify a few more things because there's obviously a misunderstanding and you're addressing me and the DPS parliamentary group. [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] No, no! This text is not addressed to us. First of all, to clarify the right you are Mr. Veselinov, this text already refers not to all religions, but only to those who receive a subsidy. One of those who receive the subsidy is the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, and it is strongly against. Colleagues, let me remind you of one more thing: why we are not the addressee. At the meeting in the Holy Synod, which you attended, Mr. Veselinov, the Chairman of the Commission on Religions, I attended and Mr. Tsvetanov also, do you remember the Chairman of GERB and Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria what did he promise to the Bulgarian Patriarch? If there is even one disagreement of the Orthodox Church on this bill, the bill will not be supported by the parliamentary group of GERB Here is not the question of courage, so the addressee is not us from the parliamentary group of the DPS, your wills under this law, even if we share them. Mr. Borisov said he would comply with the opinion and indeed the parliamentary group of GERB complied with this from the end to the end. I ask you to always bring clarity so that it is clear who has what commitments, why something does not pass, you talk about responsibility, political courage and so on. I believe that we all bear our responsibility and do as our conscience dictates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we are making from "United Patriarchs" for the creation of a new art. 21a, concerns only the strengthening of control and lightening of foreign funding. I will start with a quote, a quote that is from the motives submitted to the proposed bill last year by gentlemen Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi, including Cornelia Ninova, was then. We believe that since the State provides a subsidy, it should have a restrictive regime established by it and enhanced control over the way religious institutions are financed. Let's remember what happened at the end of last year. We have indeed accepted to have a state subsidy, and it is in increased proportions for some faiths, but we have not accepted the suspension of foreign funding. We didn't even accept restriction, but it is also evident from the reasons that BSP, GERB and DPS then introduced. This was a necessary suspension of funding from both other countries and from foreign persons. In order to achieve logic and to meet public expectations, we are making proposals as we did the last time by the United Patriarchs. Then we talked about a mandatory suspension of this foreign funding. Now our proposals are in a slightly softer form. For example, we are talking about a notification regime in the receipt of donations and inheritance from abroad, which will, of course, be done with the control of the Department of Religions and the Council of Ministers. I therefore sincerely hope that, as in private conversations, some of you support the correctness of our proposals, so that you also have the political will to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u28	Madam President, I'll take the floor for procedure. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I propose a 15-minute recess and consultation with the President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u29	We don't have an hour from the start of the hearing, Mr. Yachev. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u30	We want to discuss this because it is important. We'd like a consult in your office.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u31	Colleagues, if you don't mind if we break the rules, let's do a 15-minute recess so that we can discuss the issue at issue. Group presidents, please come to my office. (After the interruption.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u32	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing with the debates, the debate is not closed. You have the floor to speak. Are there any other statements? Mr. Simeonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you know, the extraordinary meeting of the leadership of the parties has just ended. Unfortunately, the decision that has been made does not satisfy us. I am speaking on behalf of the United Patriarchs. We will vote for the texts we have tabled and against the version which has been endorsed by the Commission because we cannot accept that Bulgaria is becoming a country of religion. The state of Bulgaria is a secular state. The religions are separated from the state and we must not forget that we have all sworn an oath to serve the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian state. The interests of Bulgarian citizens do not always coincide with the interests of individual religions, regardless of who they are and who they are. In this case, we will fulfill our duty as MPs in order to have a clear conscience and we will vote as the Bulgarian citizen's interest dictates. When a religion receives a subsidy from the state, it is not right to depend on foreign, foreign financial flows, because this means that this religion can be used as a political instrument, which we have witnessed for the past thirty years. We will support our proposal and strongly vote against funding from anywhere, without any publicly disclosed information about where this funding is from, which this law allows. That's all I can say. I also call on you to do your duty as MPs! [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to recall all the topics that have been discussed, both at the Advisory Council on National Security, and what was at the initial stage of the debates that opened under the Religious Law. We all knew that when the original option for limiting any funding was introduced, when the state would subsidise the respective religions, then we know that there was serious tension in the Orthodox Church that there was to the MPs and, in general, taking part in this debate, they said categorically that they did not agree to limit the additional funds they received as donations. In this regard, we had a meeting with the Patriarch, all the Metropolitans were there, there were representatives of all the political forces, except the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Yes, indeed, we must have respect for every religion, we must be the ones to adopt laws that reduce any possible tensions in society. We of GERB's parliamentary group will support the Bill so that the option and what we have as an agreement in the working groups with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church can actually remain. We will therefore support the texts of the Working Group and the Committee on Religions and what we have imported from the GERB parliamentary group between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Then I close the debate on this proposal and put it to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 20, against 5, abstention 112. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u37	Proposal from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev and the National Representative Mladen Shishkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2, p. 2 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u38	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text according to the Commission report. Vote 134 MPs: 127 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u39	By § 1, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u40	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There are no more unacceptable, more dangerous and more creating, of any nature, adverse consequences such as this § 1 in the Law. Recently, we have been fascinated with the issue of remission of the claims of the Main Mufti, but few people are aware of the meaning of this § 1, which is currently available to us for consideration. What does § 1 mean? The cash flow from the subsidy for imams and hodjas to be directed towards the Muslim confession of the Republic of Bulgaria. I read the name of the addressee and this addressee is placed evenly, notice, with the other addressr What is the huge difference between the two addressees of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church is registered ex-lege, i.e. under the law, and now under the law we determine the other addressee of the main mufti. Which Main Mufti? One of the two mufties that exist in the country is what claims to unite all Muslims. But Muslims in Bulgaria and around the world are not the same as Christians are Orthodox, Catholics, evangelists, Protestants, there are a number of other options. This text is extremely dangerous because it creates a division between Muslims in Bulgaria, which are also different in Bulgaria. They're Muslim Sunnis from the Hanefite religion, they're alleviites, and that's how they counted and determined themselves during the last census. There are conflicts between them that we have seen in society, conflicts that have existed for decades, and which have also been exposed in the Committee on Religions! We saw representatives of other Muslims who made themselves clear to us, presented their views, their claims. They are the reason so far the separate and prepared by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance subsidy cannot be allocated in terms of imams and hodjas. It's a fact! So what do we do now? We resolve the dispute, the conflict between them, by raising some of the Muslims in, so to speak, addressed to this subsidy, and others are ignored. And from now on, we risk the conflict growing, continuing. What's the difference between these two groups? That behind one group I do not judge and I cannot judge which are more, which are less, which are legitimate, which are not legitimate, but behind one group stand by the DPS that is the difference. There are no representatives, no political power, no individual MPs to protect them. This is just the difference between one and the other claiming the state subsidy. And from now on, there is a common group, a table that lives, they are such sure, of course, Muslims in Bulgaria [[the President signals that time has run out]] and we put them under a common denominator and legitimize them by virtue of this text that we have been offered to accept.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any lines? I don't see a line. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would not say this, but after my colleague's speech, it is necessary that at least the minutes of the debate remain the opinion that we have also said to the Conference of Presidents, and not just there. First of all, it is not true that by referring to the beneficiaries of the subsidy we are doing ex-lege what was done with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the Religions Act. Why? Because the Bulgarian Orthodox Church is defined in art. 10 such as the traditional religion in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Eastern Orthodoxy, it has historical... and so on and so forth. Article 10 gives this status to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. If we wanted to do this with the Muslim religion, we would write like this: "In art. 10 is created. 2 "And it would have been for the Muslim religion. But there's no such thing. We're changing art. 28 of the Law, which refers only to funding, not to which exlega represents a religious community. Do you understand the difference? Don't let any manipulations in here. There is no ex-lege definition of anyone other than the Bulgarian Orthodox Church as a traditional religion. Article 28 treats only state funding and nothing else! That's it. That's it. On the subject of whether there is a dispute about where the subsidy should go, there is no, colleagues, dispute. I won't, because the grant has two goals. The first is to cut off the funding of religion from foreign countries for the payment of wages to the priests, not to mention what happened to the Chief Mufti, not to the other controversial creed so-called, not to mention it, not even to mention it. The subsidy was received by the Main Mufti. The purpose of this subsidy through the State is not to produce this effect. And in order not to get this effect, we have to say who gets the subsidy. The subsidy received this Muslim religion, which received the subsidy from Turkey, which owns mosques in the Republic of Bulgaria and to which all mosques and imams belong. The other one doesn't have a mosque, not a mosque, and not a single one I have. And what do we do now to direct the subsidy there? That's funny, no one in this room would want it, not even the speakers before me. So on these two points, I wanted to express this opinion, at least because this point of view, except in this House, must also be entered into the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there lines? There are no lines. [[The People's Representative Pavel Shopov wants the floor for the duplicate.]] No, that was a statement, dear Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches? Mr. Angelov. [[People's representative Pavel Shopov wants the floor for a reply.]] There are already speeches, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u45	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! From this tribune, when we discussed last time the Religious Law, I talked about how politicians make mistakes related to religion over the years. We continue these mistakes and I will recall them. The question is here, in this Chamber, that we "partys and politicians" could not find a compromise and find the right way in which to become normal everything related to the activities of religion in Bulgaria, that is, we politicians are guilty again. We're guilty because we're making the wrong political decisions. I mentioned earlier the wrong political solution for the building of the main mufti in Bulgaria, for which the main muftiy is not guilty, but it is the wrong political solution. The wrong political solution is that 30 years in Bulgaria the state did not support religion properly. Thank God, this wrong political decision has been corrected to some extent by another wrong political decision, of course. Because what did we do? Yeah, 10 BGN. for each person counted by a creed above one percent, but up to a certain number. That is, the Main Mufti will receive full size and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church will not. If possible, the state will still assess whether more money can be allocated to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. It's the wrong political decision again. We make the wrong political decisions all the time. Why are we doing this? Neither is the state poor to be able to afford such a thing, nor are there any differences between the various political groups in terms of the fact that religion must be financed. We made so that the main mufti will receive six million per year because, for example, approximately as many are counted for Muslims in Bulgaria, and for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church there will be no more than 10, 12 or 15, as we accepted there, although over four million, nearly five million have counted for Orthodox Christians. It's the wrong political decision again. We're going to make the wrong political decision again today. We have already taken one to be able to finance religion from abroad, we have banned it. There is now yet another wrong political decision to say that the main mufti is the only thing that the Muslims in Bulgaria represent. There are different kinds of Muslims. It's like the Bulgarian Orthodox Church representing all Christians in Bulgaria. Well, there are Catholics, Protestants, it doesn't represent them. Tomorrow, for example, there will be a muftiism of Shiite in Bulgaria, but by law we have already assumed that they represent the main mufti. Well, between Sunni and Shiite you must be well aware that there is a huge difference, right, as well as between Protestants...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u46	What are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u47	...well, what are they when you ask the question? You know very well what the Allians are like, the squirmers. They're shiesite, and that's a fact that's funny enough for you, that's true. If you haven't figured it out, it's your problem. Today again we will make another wrong political decision again to say that the main mufti represented all Muslims in Bulgaria, but this does not correspond to the truth and is a fact. You can look at the census, see those who have signed up as Sunnis in Bulgaria, and you will find that it is not true. So from this point of view, I really call for us to stop with the wrong political decisions when it comes to religion in Bulgaria. These are already several wrong political decisions in a row. We hang out in an enchanted circle, and it is we politicians who make the problem and the moods, I would even say that there is some hatred between religion and between politicians and certain faiths. Because we don't find the right approach, and each one of us solves by piece, right now, then turns out wrong, then repeats it, triples it, honors it and so on. My request is that we really stop with these wrong political decisions and not support the text that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u49	My reply to you, Mr. Angelov, is in the context of the context you have repeated many times the words "wrong," "wrong" and "wrong." Yeah, but it's an extremely big mistake. It's fatal. This is surely one of the biggest mistakes that Parliament will make, because from now on we will create a community that is different, which is different, which is made up of different parts and we will provide them to the DPS through the Master Mufti, as it is vegetated in this text to be used politically. This has been dreamt of by the DPS for many years and they have achieved it. This is probably the greatest success for them, so for them, the issue of this text is not true. It is not a question to Muslims either, and we can now safely say that the DPS has its main mufti. From now on, we all need to know: the logic is that all Muslims in Bulgaria are Muslims, and not different people inside there are no other representatives of Muslimism. The representatives of Muslimism are through the Main Mufti, in fact from DPS, and all in Bulgaria are Turks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Angelov, when you talked about differences, I think you should have pointed them out more accurately. Traditionally in Bulgaria, and it is auspicious, the most Sunni Muslims, but 27 thousand people in Bulgaria have identified themselves as Shiite and now it turns out that the Chief Mufti will represent these Shiite as well. I just want to remind you, Mr. Angelov, that this is like His Holiness the Pope representing Orthodox Christians, which is nonsense. And if you go back in history, you will see that the rivalry, the hostility between the two main directions in Islam, Shiite and Sunni, see the history itself, they have waged centuries of wars on religious grounds, as well as in Europe, between Catholics and evangelists. In one thing, I will only support you that it is as if this is such a thin moment that faiths are extremely fine matter, and so we, with the great Badananar at the moment, are solving problems that may subsequently be extremely complex. I would just like to remind you, Mr. Angelov, that the great age-old rivalry between the two countries of Iran and the Ottoman Empire, today Turkey, is right on a religious basis. One's a shiite, the other's a sunni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u53	Mr. Shopov, you're right about the mistakes. I forgot to recall another mistake, Mr. Shopov, a mistake that is being corrected again today; a mistake for which we....................we warned that we should not forgive the obligations and debts of faiths. We were not listening then, but we proved right in the end in the way that we proposed it to be rescheduled, this amendment happens. And then we weren't listening. Why? I am sure that these things that we are saying today, and for years we have stood up for them by the United Patriarchs, sooner or later they will fall into the Law. Sooner or later, all political parties and leaders will understand that this is the right path. This is what we see is happening because we do not do it because of populism, we do it because we are patriots, we do it because this is the Bulgarian state and we have to protect Bulgaria's national interest against all political parties. Mr. Atanasov, to your reply you will reply this way: you are right, you quoted the data that were counted at the last census in 2011 for Shiite Muslims in Bulgaria. You're right! That's where the key is at stake. You can see in the previous census before 2011, when they were 100 thousand, now there are 27 thousand, 2021 will probably be 7 thousand. That's the purpose of this text, this community, this religion to disappear, to have one Main Mufti and to have only Muslim Sunni.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I thought today the National Assembly would be at the height of the Law we are adopting. When we talk about faiths, faith, spirituality, it means that we are talking about unification of the nation, unification of everything spiritually that is happening in this country, and what decisions have been made there, we had to upgrade them. We stand here today to try to give peace to the clergy, to the kings, to the Metropolitans, to the hodjas, so that they can do calmly what each of us at some point goes to them at birth or when you leave this world. You fellow Members are trying to politicize things today, so you are trying to affect that there are contradictions in Muslimism. I'm one of the Alevites, the Alleans, and to come out and talk about this subject, colleagues that you don't know doesn't honor you, at the very least, not to hit him in honor. Don't mess with me! Let's see that creed of Orthodox, which you divided when Ivan Kostov was in power. With three hundred dawns done everything possible to have a union in the Church. We are now trying to make so that Muslimism in Bulgaria through the main muftiry how and how the Allians and others will be represented in this mufti. Let the Muslims deal with this. We're talking about unification, colleagues, we're talking about very serious things. [[Reply from the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.]] We're not talking, Mr. Shopov, about Stupid. We're talking about faiths, we're talking about a law to bow our heads as it suits us, and we're talking about a law to be useful to the clergy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. You said that, in fact, with this text, we would do the unification in Muslimism. That's what you said! Am I right? You were all witnesses. What do you mean, there's a problem? Yeah, there's a problem, obviously there's a problem. There were representatives of the Muslims who were not those represented by the Chief Mufti and by you, who in the Commission stated another will, there was a different self-determination, a census at the last census. Is that right? That's right. So this isn't a real question. What you want with this text is clearly to solve things and problems as they were solved in 2003 in the Religions Act. This happened to Christians in Bulgaria or, more precisely, to the Eastern Orthodox religion. That's what we're talking about, then it's done. And now I ask the question to all my colleagues: then there was the political will to do it, but now do we have the political will to do it? And, again, with this text, it's not a question of money reaching the imams and the hodjas. There are other ways, other techniques, and we want that. None of us wishes the contrary to remain so, such is the common will. But with this text, you're doing exactly that. You're doing the math, you're doing the math, you're doing the math inside. The difference between the different Christian representations or branches, let's call them, is that you have taken the side of one of them, they have the political representation, they don't speak who's wrong, who's right, how big is the division, how much hodjas, there's one religion, to the second, to the third wing. You use the National Assembly as a means, a weapon, as a fist for the power solution...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u59	...to these problems as they please you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u60	You have the floor again, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u61	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Atalay, as the MP, I have the right to comment and to say what I think about every part of the Bulgarian society, because this is the way it is under the Constitution, and I represent, as well as you, all Bulgarian citizens, so that you cannot give me an assessment or limit me in whether I will comment on the Allians, Shiites, Koolish or Alevite in Bulgaria, which is the same because I have the right to say my opinion. I don't forbid you and I don't tell you what you can comment on. I also didn't say if you could comment on the Orthodox Church, did I? And you have the right to be a MP. Because you said what the problem is.. how this community will be represented in the General Mufti, whether it will be represented and whether it is represented at all, so I also quoted the data for a reason: 27 thousand.. 2011 and 10 years before that .. 100 thousand counted in the census. I can remind you of the time of the Ottoman Empire who represented them and what was happening to the Shiites, the Allians, the Aleviites and the cobblers in our lands, the same thing that happened to the Christians in Bulgaria. So well defended were they then, and now, so protected and represented that they disappear! That's the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there another line? I can't see. Right answer. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In reverse order. Mr. Angelov, I am not the person who can forbid you what opinion you will express from the stand, but I have the right to question your competence. I tried, without conflicting, in confrontation, trying to calm down the conversation to make us useful. Otherwise, the dispute between us and Mr. Shopov understands that he never understands me and is not necessary. Because if we go back to history, to millennia, to the things that happened between Protestants, the things that happened in Christianity, what goes between the Allians and Sunni, this is not the place to discuss this issue. If you decide, maybe someday we can do it as a topic, clarify it, and some people who want to have a debate on this subject will understand what this is about. In our group, colleagues, we have both aliani and Sunni, but everyone who came here respects all voters - whether they are Christians or allians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. [[Private applause from DPS.]] Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. Vote 120 MPs: 97, against 18, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u65	Under § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Alexieva, made in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 3, as in para. 2 in the text before t. 1 words can be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u66	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 3, with the editorial amendment proposed by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u67	Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: A new § is being created...: §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 are created. supplied by a source outside the Republic of Bulgaria in violation of this law, a fine of BGN 5000 to BGN 10 000 for a natural person or a penalty of EUR 10 000 to BGN 20 000 for a legal person is imposed. (4) Whoever accepts a donation to a religion to which a state subsidy has been granted shall, in violation of this law, be punished with a fine of 5000 to 10 000 BGN for a natural person, or a penalty of 10 000 to 20 000 BGN shall be imposed. For a legal person. (5) When the acts under para. 3 and para. 4 are repeated, the fine is from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN and the penalty is from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN. (6) In the cases under para. The infringement shall be withdrawn for the benefit of the State. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u68	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 126 MPs: 20, against 1, abstention 105. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, supported by the Commission. Vote 124 MPs: 109, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u69	According to § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Boryana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u70	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 4 by importer to be rejected. Vote 128 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u71	A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Evgenia Alexieva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Transport provision with § 5: "Transitional provision' § 5. (1) At the request of the religions of the law may be allowed to postpone the outstanding on 31 December 2018 public obligations under art. 162, para. 2 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, including the accrued interest on them until the date of issue of the authorisation, for a period of up to 10 years. (2) Interest at the rate of the base rate shall be due for the period of deferral. (3) The request shall be submitted by the persons referred to in para. 1 within a period of three months from the entry into force of this Law for: 1. obligations for taxes and compulsory social security contributions to the Director of the responsible territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency; 2. other public liabilities to the authority which established the obligation. (4) The cancellation permit shall be issued by the relevant competent authority under para. 3 within 14 days following the submission of a guarantee covering the amount of principal and interest of liabilities for the deferral period. (5) The refusal may be appealed within 14 days of its service by the authority which issued it before the administrative court at the seat of the person under para. 1. (6) The silent refusal may be appealed within 14 days of the expiry of the term under para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u72	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! What we are currently being proposed to vote is highly disturbing. I would like to quote the provisions of art. 184 of the PDK, which says that in order to request a deferral and deferral of an obligation of more than 300 thousand. BGN, this is established by a decision of the Minister of Finance and not by the territorial director, as proposed in this law. And the question arises: what are we doing right now? With the change of the Religions Act, we violate a fundamental law and a code such as the D.O.D.K. I would like you to answer this question because it is definitely written that it is a territorial director, and DODK says otherwise. Apart from that, colleagues, deferred and deferred may be available when recognised by the tax authorities and these suspensions and deferrals are detailed in Chapter twenty-two of the DCC. But there's something else here. The provisions of the DPK themselves say that for such a deferral or deferral for such amounts, an opinion and agreement of the Director and the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute should be sought. Apart from that, a decision must be taken by the European Commission, so that it does not turn out to be State aid. What are we doing?! Is there such a decision by the European Commission? Because it must be demonstrated that it is not State aid, since other provisions are then violated. Besides, what is Mufti? Mufti is an entity that must comply with the legal provisions and legislation in the Republic of Bulgaria. It must be subject to the order that all taxpayers have. The order is that an application must be submitted to the NRA and from then on to the provisions of art. 184 The Minister will issue this permission to postpone or postpone. All that money we're gonna reschedule or reschedule comes out of the taxpayer's pocket anyway. In such a case, in addition to the consent of the NSI and the positive opinion of the European Commission, we need to see how it is interpreted also through the State Aid Act. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the DPS, I would like to ask about something that you will answer, as I do not have the full information, but I do have a partial one that already has procedures for selling properties to the Mufti. Such a procedure to postpone and postpone the initiation of a procedure... According to the provisions of art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law states categorically that such postponement and deferral may be allowed until the date of the determination of the sale under art. 238 of the DPC, and such a sale has already been scheduled and has even been carried out, despite my information that the money has not entered into the State's account and is waiting for this decision by this law in order to terminate the tender procedure and return the money to the person who participated in the bidding procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Apostolov, you should have mentioned that since we are in practice creating a different order from the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, this order should apply to absolutely all persons, not only to faiths, but to individuals, to legal persons, to traders. There cannot be one line set out in the Tax Procedure Code for the deferral of obligations, and now by a lower-level regulation, by law, we can change it and go to a practically special order, specifically for a non-profit legal entity such as the Muslim religion. Totally unacceptable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there another line? I won't. A hole, dear Mr. Apostolov. You don't. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u77	Once during communism there was a phrase on duty.. how the 9th September uprising in Bulgaria had won with the crucial help of the Soviet army. So now, today, the DPS will achieve one of its greatest successes in the history of the transition since 1990 with the crucial help of GERB. I don't know, colleagues from GERB, why are you doing all this?! With very dangerous consequences for the country. But today the successful Raid of the DPS continues on the third, very vicious, flexible topic, as is the one with the extension of payments that the Chief Mufti has to the treasury. See, colleagues, from today onwards the Tax Procedure Code in Bulgaria is no longer a code. All lawyers, as long as we remain in this Chamber, know that the Code is a high form of legal rule in one country. From then on, it's the sky. The Constitution. And now for the close-party need of the DPS, which, by law today, have a Main Mufti, notice from today, not that it actually wasn't so, but today this is under the Law, because of the DPS there is another breakthrough in the democratic, legal and constitutional system in the country. I know what Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will say, as Chairman of the Financial Commission, I have been on this committee for years. In this committee are made constantly.. in all its publications, all the national meetings, all the presidents, including when it was Mr. Tsonev, legal nonsense, because there the presidents are financiers, economists. With all due respect. We have seen many times how, in Transitional and Final Provisions, substantive rules are introduced, how in Transitional and Final Budget Regulations are introduced material rules from other laws, I do not have words! But what's being done now is against any legal rules, and I'm not talking about financials. To disperse the Tax Procedure Code of Higher Creation in a single legislation, and targeted, in a specific case, I say a specific case, the legal situation is that in a particular case you never make any laws at all, but to fertilize the Tax Procedure Code in order to please, create a new, different order of collecting certain state claims, excuse me, that according to any of the professors at Sofia University across the street, any legal capacity, is a complete legal nihilism and a return not decades, but centuries back into a legal system. Mr. Kirilov, stand up, confirm my words. Our humble opinion, which today you from GERB did not read at all, you left the Urbanashka, just like that, to please perhaps your future coalition partners from DPS, who are aiming for two years to do all they can to make it happen, our humble opinion is at least that you do not accept. There is a Tax Procedure Code, in general order, as the legislator ordered, for these gatherings to take place. And the fact that we seem to have forgotten, we celebrated that the tax amnesty has been canceled, that we have considered it a very big victory, that is another question, with three hundred dawns we have managed to convince you now that we can convince you that the third point of the DPS will not be realized today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Shopov, I am amazed at you, indeed. One of the most prominent judges of the Plovdiv District Court, you are very aware that we gave birth to a country in the country an hour ago. And what was in practice this whole statement of yours, as long as we already have subjects who will be under special laws, with special rules, I am talking about all faiths. But colleagues from GERB and DPS seem to take into account the words of a great pope, only he was a medieval pope whose original thought was:..Voluntati Dei eklisia dominus resum et populi est est................................................................. So, Mr. Shopov, as such a good judge, I'm amazed why you're making meaningless speeches, given that we've created a new subject in the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Any other lines? I can't see. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u81	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! It is no accident that we made this proposal between first and second readings, a special law that governs relations, actions in faiths, to supplement it with texts that say how in a particular situation to act in terms of delaying possible claims. These texts apply to all religions. Here all the time there was talk about the Muslim religion, I guess, because in the media it appeared that Muslim religion has obligations and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church does not. I don't know who has how many obligations, has or has no obligations, but the text is principled. Why did such a text have to be written in this law and not apply the order of which the previous spokespersons spoke, namely the Tax-Safe Procedure Code? For one very important and fundamental reason: the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and its norms are set up for business. If the highly respected lawyers open art. The PDK 184 will see that in order to meet a demand from a debtor to postpone debts, it has to meet a number of conditions. By memory, I will quote one or two of them: efficiency ratio, return ratio and so on, all things that concern an economic entity. You understand that religion cannot, whatever it is, respond to such demands. This means that if we go in the general order, neither the Minister of Finance nor the NRA would grant any permission to postpone. That's why we wrote that order down. The order rules out the pronunciation of the Director of the NRA, the law itself tells the Director of the NRA that at one such request he must issue the act, it is said who, and to monitor its execution. However, I would like to make it clear that all the conditions that we have proposed in this text are also the most important conditions under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. During the whole time of the cancellation, we have a guarantee of the amount of the amount for which it is requested and the interest on it for the entire period of the deferral. The guarantee is mainly in real estate, which are pledged to the benefit of the National Revenue Agency. During the whole period of the suspension, interest shall flow as provided for by the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for each business person who has received a recess pursuant to art. 182 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, that is, things do not differ at all here. This text enables the subsidy that we voted for half an hour ago to fulfil its purpose, namely to be used to pay the salaries and contributions of the priests. Otherwise, it means that we amuse the text of this subsidy and part of it, instead of wages and social security, must go to repay old debts. Let the money go where these people need to be paid, and the extension will enable the respective religion from other sources of income to make repayments. It has been mentioned that this is state aid and that permission must be requested from the European Commission. It's not state aid, gentlemen. According to the rules of the European Commission, under the rules of state aid and the directives on it, there is one when there is a competitive business activity then and only then! In this case, no business or competition in the market can be mentioned at all. The point of State aid and its notification to the European Commission is not to create in one market a level playing field for various operators supported by the State. There can't be any mention of such a thing here. I mean, in practice, the order we have proposed is the order under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. However, the fact that the Tax Insurance Code is not directly applied is because it is a religion other than business. There's a special law. There's a special law for a reason! You all wanted this law because there are many peculiarities of the so-called non-governmental organization, whichever religion it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u82	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I cannot agree with you. You would have been right if these regulations and these regulations had been offered in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, or at least you had offered it in the corps of the Religion Act. This is a Transitional and Final provision in a amending law establishing a special order which clearly applies to a particular religion, to a specific and specific case. All your arguments would have been correct if this norm had been either in the corps of the Religious Law, even though it wasn't his place, or in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. In addition, it was correct and logical to suggest that at least the outstanding issues in respect of the remission in question would be subject to the rules of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, and not to prejudge in future the creation of cases in the implementation of this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? Here you are, you have the floor for a second line, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u85	Mr. Chairman! Ms. Stoyanova, my respects to you, but you are not right at the end of your speech because of art. 20 of the State aid law states that the recipient is each person, whether he forms and distributes profit. So the rules of this law apply to this entity, too, does not matter that it is not a commercial undertaking and does not have an economic activity. Regarding whether Mufti has economic activity, we can argue a lot. So you're wrong. Read art. 20 of the State Aid Act and then we'll talk!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u86	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Is there a third line? No more lines. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u87	I'll answer both lines. I'd rather say, in terms of state aid, you, Mr. Apostolov, are right. Indeed, the text says that this law applies regardless of whether a profit is generated or not, but the point is whether you are at profit or at loss. There are other texts that clearly say that when we have a competitive activity, through State aid, to influence the competitive environment. In this case, we cannot in any way influence the competitive environment between different faiths, unless you believe that different religions are precisely in such a competitive environment and will influence with this text, but as they say, I do not know how you think. What I hear from the stands is not what is actually right and by law. As for the fact that, according to his first remark, the colleague said that it was once again about a religion, I definitely want to say that the text in the Law applies to absolutely all religions, registered and unregistered under this law. Absolutely all of them! Since this is a text that must have a level playing field, and anyone who is in a similar economic situation today or tomorrow can benefit from this text. I dare not say that the Muslim religion has obligations to the budget at this time alone. I dare not say it at all, but you may have more information that should be a tax secret, but as they say: you never know.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the creation of a "Transitional provision' with paragraph 5 composition, with a text according to the Commission Report. They voted 122 MPs: 11 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. With this, we have completed the review of the Bill. We're adjourned for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u89	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROCEEDING OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECURRENCE OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED PROCEEDANCE. Entered by Daniel Kirilov and Hamid Hamid, on 17 December 2018. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the President of the Commission Danail Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u90	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-90, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hamid Bari Hamid on 17 December 2018. At its meeting held on 26 March 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law for the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property, No 854-01-90, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hamid Bari Hamid. The meeting was attended by Mr. Plamen Georgiev, Mr. Anton Slavchev, Vice-President, Mrs. Antoaneta Georgieva-Tsonkova, Member, Mr. Plamen Yotsov, Member, Mrs. Atanaska Georgieva, Head of the Inspectorate, and Mrs. Boryana Yotova, Head of Public Relations Unit, and by the Supreme Court of Cassation Judge Galina Toneva. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that it aims to refine certain provisions achieved as a result of the Commission's one-year work on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property after the entry into force of the Law. It is proposed to extend the scope of senior public positions by adding a new category of the Director of the National Investigation Service and its alternates. In order to avoid blocking the declaration system of persons holding senior public positions, the municipal councillors are proposed to be removed from the scope of the Law. The proposed addition to the provision of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law aims to create a legal opportunity in the Commission's territorial directorates to create separate administrative units in order to carry out quality control, to create a better organisation of activities on the ground, as well as to enhance efficiency in the work of the authorities. It is proposed that for persons holding senior public positions, with the exception of those obliged under the Law on the Judiciary, the declaration of property and interests should increase the threshold for declared income outside those for the position held during the previous calendar year from more than 1000 BGN. over £5000. The Bill aims to reduce the administrative burden and provide timely information related to the verification of the declared facts as well as uniformity of practice in the verification of declarations. It is proposed that the relevant persons holding senior public positions be notified of a finding of non-compliance of up to 5000 BGN, allowing them to make an adjustment. Mr. Kirilov noted that in the event of a non-compliance of not less than 10 000 leva. The Commission shall take action to send the materials of the verification to the National Revenue Agency. In the event of a non-compliance of not less than BGN 20 000. The Commission shall adopt a decision on the verification of the property status of the person holding a senior public office in accordance with Chapter 10a. The bill creates an opportunity for the authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law to ensure the preservation of premises or areas until the investigation is initiated by the authorities of pre-trial proceedings, as well as to be able to call citizens to service premises. The order of summoning citizens shall be governed by the rules of art. 23 of this law. There is also the possibility of forced delivery to be carried out during the day unless it can be delayed. The enforcement is carried out by the Ministry of Interior services under the conditions laid down in the Ministry of Interior Act. The bill provides for the bodies under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law in the performance of their duties to be able to use protective means guaranteeing their personal safety and cover of their identity, as well as to have powers to disclose the banking, insurance and trade secrets under art. 115 of the Law, such as the authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 they have. A declaration shall also be made available to third parties who have acquired property at the expense of a verified person in order to avoid its withdrawal or to conceal its origin or actual rights. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the goal result in the change of art. 152, para. 3 of the Law is to protect the state interest as there is a possibility that the rights of the State to file a withdrawal claim can be repaid in respect of assets acquired at the beginning of the period under review. There is also an increase in the period under which the Commission has brought an action for revocation in favour of the State of illegally acquired property from three to six months. The Law allows the Commission to be exempted from public charges regardless of the outcome of the case, since the claim of the State is of a public-law nature. It is proposed to include the administrations of the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court, whose employees should also submit declarations under the Law in order not to remain outside the scope of the declaration. The Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall supplement to persons who are entitled to access tax and insurance information. The proposal to amend the National Security Service Act is dictated by the motive that it is necessary to ensure the safety of this high public office through the National Security Service. Detailed opinions were received under the bill from the Commission on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Council of Law and the Chamber of Private Judicial Contractors. Mr. Plamen Georgiev added that he supports the amendments to the Bill as they are aimed at more effective prevention and countering the various forms of corruption as a result of the one-year action of the Law, pointing out that certain provisions need to be refined and comply with the adopted opinions on the bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Hamid Hamid and Christian Mitev. The Members of the National Assembly expressed their support for the Bill, uniting themselves around the opinion that certain provisions between first and second votes need to be refined, such as proposals relating to the category of municipal councillors. Mr. Mitev noted that there is a need to refine the powers of the Commission to force persons and to wish to establish a working group between the first and second votes. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for abstentions, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 854-01-90, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hamid Bari Hamid on 17 December 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. There is no report from the Commission on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. Will there be a presentation of an importer's opinion? The representatives of the National Assembly are Danail Kirilov and Hamid Hamid. Then we will continue with the speeches. Here's your opinion, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, very briefly, I will present to you the opinion of an importer under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, No 854-01-90, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and Hamid Bari Hamid on 17 December 2018. The bill aims to refine certain provisions that have been achieved as a result of the Commission's one-year work on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property since the entry into force of the Law. It is proposed to extend the scope of senior public positions by adding a new category of the Director of the National Investigation Service and its alternates. In order to avoid blocking the system of declaration of senior public positions, the municipal councillors are proposed to be removed from the scope of the Law. The proposed addition to the provision of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 of the Law aims to create a legal opportunity in the Commission's territorial directorates to create separate administrative units in order to carry out quality control and to create a better organisation of activities on the ground, as well as to enhance efficiency in the work of the authorities. It is proposed that for persons holding senior public positions, with the exception of those obliged under the Law on the Judiciary, the declaration of property and interests should be increased the threshold for declaring income, beyond those for the position held, received in the previous calendar year from 1000 BGN. over £5000. The Bill aims to reduce the administrative burden and provide timely information related to the verification of the declared facts as well as uniformity of practice in the verification of declarations. It is proposed that the relevant persons holding senior public positions be notified of a finding of non-compliance of up to 5000 BGN, allowing them to make an adjustment. In the event of a non-compliance of not less than BGN 10 000. The Commission shall take action to send the materials of the verification to the National Revenue Agency. In the event of a non-compliance of not less than BGN 20 000. The Commission shall adopt a decision on the verification of the property status of the person holding a senior public office in accordance with Chapter 10a. The bill creates an opportunity for the authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law to ensure the preservation of premises or areas, pending the initiation of the investigation by the authorities of pre-trial proceedings, as well as to be able to call citizens to service premises. The order of calling citizens to be governed by the rules of art. 23 of this law. There is also a possibility of forced delivery to be carried out during the day, unless it can be delayed. The enforcement is carried out by the Ministry of Interior services under the conditions laid down in the Ministry of Interior Act. The bill provides for the bodies under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law in the performance of their duties shall be able to use protective means to ensure their personal safety and cover of their identity, as well as to have powers to disclose banking, insurance and commercial secrecy under art. 115 of the Law, such as the authorities under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 they have. A declaration shall also be made available to third parties who have acquired property at the expense of a verified person in order to avoid its withdrawal or to conceal its origin or actual rights. The target result in the change of art. 152, para. 3 of the Law is to protect the state interest as there is a possibility that the rights of the State to file a withdrawal claim can be repaid in respect of assets acquired at the beginning of the period under review. There is also an increase in the period under which the Commission has brought an action for revocation in favour of the State of illegally acquired property from three to six months. The Law allows the Commission to be exempted from public charges regardless of the outcome of the case, since the claim of the State is of a public-law nature. It is proposed to include the administrations of the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court, which officials should also submit declarations under the Law in order not to remain outside the scope of the declaration. The Tax and Insurance Procedure Code shall supplement to persons who are entitled to access tax and insurance information. The proposal to amend the National Security Service Act is dictated by the motive that it is necessary to ensure the safety of this high public office through the National Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I'm opening the debate. A statement has been made by Mr. Yachev. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u94	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, there is no report by the Parliamentary Committee on Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics for the following reason. Very surprising after a continuing pause, I think for nearly four months... When the Draft Law was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 December 2018, the Law Commission and the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics were assigned to the two committees. Subsequently, the bill was frozen to be discussed publicly and to see if importers stand behind everything they put into the original version or not. Informally in our committee we have naturally discussed the Bill, including we have commented on some of the texts with representatives of the Commission on countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and I am convinced that each of the members of our Anti-Corruption Commission has an opinion and will be expressed by the relevant vote in plenary. We were waiting for the so-called public discussion to pass. Very suddenly, however, on the 26th, i.e. just two days ago, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Bill was viewed and very quickly put into plenary. I dedicate this, I hope, to some technical misunderstanding, not to any concerns by the debaters and in another committee, outside of Law, in this case, the Commission, of which I am President, the Anti-Corruption Commission. There are several things that, personally as a representative of the National Assembly, bother me in the so submitted bill of Mr. Hamid Hamid and Mr. Danail Kirilov. First of all, the amendment of § 1 in art. 6, para. 1, t. 2, provides for the exclusion of municipal councillors from the scope of the Law against corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The amendment was tabled on the grounds that, first of all, there is an extremely dynamic composition of municipal councillors. Secondly, it is pointed out that the number is around 5400 people and the financial resources that are spent to verify the declared property by the municipal councillors do not justify the results of this check. In addition, the need for additional human and material resources, which will be significant, is also indicated as a leading motive. Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopted the new Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, we not only refined the list of officials, but also added entirely new categories that have public functions or powers of spending public funds. Among these new categories, along with the main architects of municipalities and districts, municipal councilors were included in the composition. The idea was to achieve the necessary publicity and provide an opportunity to check the property of individuals who have decisive functions in spending public resources and who have increased corruption risk. I would just like to say to you that, in a large part, I cannot say in percentage, because I have not calculated from the calls made to the Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interests Commission and parliamentary ethics, there are allegations of corruption practices precisely in the so-called local executive and legislative power. Here we should also note the fact that, with the new Anti-Corruption Act, we have also decentralized another mechanism for controlling and preventing corruption risk by local authorities, namely, we have decentralised the Commission for verification and establishment of conflicts of interest. Local committees are currently operating to establish and prevent conflicts of interest and, as far as I have information, the result of their effectiveness approaches zero. In a discussion with the Commission's management on countering corruption and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, it was expressed that the quoted composition of 5,400 people, which according to importers will burden with financial and human resources the verification of municipal councillors, it is necessary to increase its administrative capacity within a number of less than 10 even, with which it can safely assume the obligation to verify the municipal councillors as well. Moreover, you remember that last year, with a change in the Law on Countering Corruption and Withdrawal, we postponed the obligation to declare precisely to municipal councillors until 1 December 2019, that is, for them the Law has not yet been put into effect and we are trying once again to put the administrative or political one, but I do not want to say this word, but it is imposed by itself an umbrella over these important figures in the local executive and legislative power. This will be one of the amendments for which we will insist between first and second readings. I am here not only expressing my personal opinion, but also our parliamentary group's opinion that we will be strongly opposed to the removal of municipal councillors from the list of persons examined who will have an obligation to declare their property and therefore a conflict of interest. Another amendment, which worries me.................................................................................... 47a, which obliges all state institutions, security, public order and security services to immediately provide the Commission with anti-corruption and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property the information obtained on corruption of persons holding a senior public office, with the failure to comply with this obligation being sanctioned with an administrative penalty. In the new Anti-Corruption Act, we have achieved success by formulating for the first time the concept of corruption. What, though, is referred to as the "Corruption Service "? The importers of the Bill did not define this concept, there is not enough legal definition of it. In my opinion, it is impossible to make qualitative notifications if state institutions go in this direction towards the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, and hence it will not be able to carry out the necessary qualitative checks on all the notifications received. Perhaps in this direction an obligation should be considered to be taken into account by the verifiers and control bodies to send signals to the Commission as they have been received, but this must not be strictly binding. With regard to the part of the proposals so made, as many of them originate from the Commission's management to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property and are the result of its nearly one-year work, only two weeks ago we adopted the Report and there were reflected both the successes and the problems it faces. Between first and second reading, only some disturbing suggestions can be refined that give her a little more authority. I am personally prepared to support their increase, as I believe that, within this year, the Commission's management for countering corruption and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property has sufficiently sober, objectively and maturely concluded what is interfering with its activities and does not allow for greater and more serious results. So I would personally support the rest of the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Let's continue with the lines. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Yachev, I'm taking a line to clarify a few things. Firstly, I do not know how this bill, as you said, has been frozen since December, for four months your Commission has failed to look at it. I don't know what this procedural action is, but I recall the December debates in view of the criticism then that there should be a public debate on these issues. For this reason, the Legal Commission said it would give enough time to society and everyone interested to get acquainted with the Bill. I am surprised that even last week, because even then we announced the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs for two sessions were public and could, if not you, at least your collaborators would notice this fact. You would have had the opportunity at the end of last week, and this week, including Wednesday, to watch the Bill. Anyway, there's nothing here that I can deliberately suspect, but I'm moving on. Except that you didn't see it, you didn't listen to the Legal Commission report, where we told you that on the issue of municipal councillors, the importers have stated revision, in the sense that we are not withdrawing this issue, but we are putting it to a serious debate, as it has been a discussion for more than a year. The Legal Committee also requested a new current opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. I won't comment on the other issues. However, it seems to me that if we comment soon on the Rules of the National Assembly, we should consider whether our permanent Anti-Corruption and Conflict of Interests Commission and parliamentary ethics should not remain only for parliamentary ethics because we already have a specialized body to combat corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a second line? I won't. Hole, Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u98	I will not enter into a debate to measure the importance of the Commission, Mr. Kirilov, to which you are no doubt pushing me. The fact is, however, that there was really no movement for four months on the bill thus tabled. I am not obliged, nor do my colleagues from the Commission, to monitor the agenda of the other committees. The other day your bill was reviewed in the Commission, today it is already entering plenary, I did not see the point in this haste, but... This is regarding your first remark. About the withdrawal. I have not yet seen an act of withdrawal of this bill and I am talking about it as a bill which has been tabled at the moment and is being watched. So there is no obstacle to expressing my personal opinion on the submitted proposals under art. 6 "Departure of the circle of the persons examined, in this case the municipal councillors. The other exotic idea for the Commission. You may propose that a similar type of committee be eliminated at all, but I do not think that this will be useful for the National Assembly and will be a good political sign. So I'm asking you to think smartly in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the subject was discussed quite thoroughly in this draft law on the removal of municipal councillors as a group of individuals to whom the rules of the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property should apply. In this regard, I also declare that there was a reservation made by importers that they would reconsider their attitude to the proposal. I also believe that this is an inadequate proposal with regard to municipal councillors. I am not going to dwell on the arguments that have already been put forward by my colleague Yachev, why the exclusion of this group of individuals is inappropriate. However, I will focus on other changes that extend the Commission's powers in the direction of granting it powers that are rather relevant to the authorities of the prosecution, and these are the powers to force persons, including at night in exceptional cases, which I think is excessive. For the one-year period of the Commission's activities, it has proved that it works well without these additional powers. It is practically unnecessary to question her good work and her good intentions with provisions that raise concerns about possible abuses in certain cases and violations of civil rights. I believe that these extended powers proposed in this part of the bill should be dropped and I will make such a proposal between first and second readings. With regard to other provisions and proposals. I believe that a working group should be established between first and second readings on this bill, to carefully comply with the opinions of the Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Attorney General, who, in most of the provisions that have been discussed, think it is justified so that the Law ultimately meets the objectives set by the importers and actually supports the Commission's future work to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We're going to vote. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs to the plenary where they belong. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act and withdrawing illegally acquired property, No 854-01-90, submitted by Danail Kirilov and Hamid Hamid on 17 December 2018. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The bill has been passed. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ELECTRICITY OF THE Black Sea Coast, No 902 01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers. We begin with the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. I do not see the President of the Commission in this House. Is there a representative of the Commission? Here you go, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 March 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. In the Commission meeting took part: Mrs. Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ms. Ekaterina Dazova Director of the Maritime Beach Management Directorate at the Ministry of Tourism and representatives of civil organizations. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Mrs. Irena Georgieva. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast provide that the orders of the Minister of Tourism, ordering the conduct of tenders with a secret tender for the lease of the sites of exclusive state property representing sea beaches, and the orders for determining the winners of the tenders to be subject to prior execution. The bill provides for a ban on the placing of beach accessories and tents, as well as the passage, parking and stay of road vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers on dunes covered by the Black Sea coast, except in the case of authorised construction. The proposed amendment complies with the requirements of the Law on Protected Areas with regard to the conservation and conservation of all species of dunes and protected species of flora and fauna which fall within the area The bill also provides amendments and additions to the administrative penal provisions of the Law. The rules concerning the authorities involved in administrative proceedings in the identification of infringements and the determination of penalties are also revised. It is envisaged to refer to the rules for the implementation of administrative criminal proceedings in the relevant law in cases where an area of regulation falling within the competence of another administrative authority is concerned. The proposed provisions explicitly define the types of suspension and recovery measures which could be applied by the Minister of Tourism in view of violations of the provisions of the Law. A number of opinions have been received by civil and professional organisations in the Commission, in which, along with the principle of support expressed, proposals have been made to refine individual provisions of the Bill and further amendments to the Law. In the speeches of the representatives of the civil organisations present at the meeting, positions were taken, similar to the written opinions and proposals provided by them, focusing on the need to regulate the ownership of dunes in a new way, their conservation and resolution of the problem of unregulated camping on dunes, beaches and private properties. During the discussion, MPs expressed their principled support for the submitted bill. At the same time, it has been pointed out that some of the proposed provisions in the Bill need significant precision between the two votes, and additional proposals should also be made to create the necessary prerequisites for overcoming some negative trends from the practice of implementing the Law and to resolve the existing problems for which the current provisions do not give sufficient reason to do so. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, no votes against the Council of Ministers, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is next. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u104	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 6 March 2019, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Tourism: Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister, and Ekaterina Dazova Director of the Department of Maritime Beach Management and representatives of branch organizations from the tourism business and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by Irena Georgieva. According to the importer, the aim of the bill is with the proposed changes to create the possibility of establishing the orders of the Minister of Tourism, ordering the conduct of tenders with a secret tender for the lease of the sites of exclusive state property, to be subject to prior execution. The second group of changes concerns a ban on the placing of beach accessories and tents, as well as on the passage, parking and stay of road vehicles (PAS) on mobile, fixed and lightened dunes, except in the case of authorised construction. Significant changes to the administrative criminal provisions of the Board of Appeal have also been proposed, providing for a reference to the rules for the implementation of administrative criminal proceedings in the relevant law where an area of regulation falling within the competence of another administrative authority is concerned. The Law establishes two new public registers on the classified sea beaches and on the grouped sea beaches. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the subsequent discussion opinions expressed and asked questions to the representatives of the National Assembly Valery Simeonov and Dimitar Boychev the penalty for placing beach accessories on the dunes was exaggerated; the need for differentiation of the placement of types of moving objects; the need for access to the beach of PPS for example ambulances; equal access to the beach stripes paid and free zone; excessive differentiation of the verifiers and the sanctioning authorities. The asked questions were answered by the representatives of the Ministry of Tourism. Following the end of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. A report from the Committee on Environment and Water is next. Mrs. Vassileva, if you'd like to introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u106	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. At a meeting held on 14 March 2019, the Committee on Environment and Water examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019. The meeting was attended by: Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ekaterina Datsova, Director of the Maritime Beach Management Directorate, representatives of the National Association of Bulgarian Black Sea Coast and other non-governmental organizations. On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Irena Georgieva. The bill introduces the possibility for the Minister of Tourism's orders to conduct tenders with a secret tender for the rental of the.. exclusive state property to be subject to prior execution. It provides for prohibitions in order to protect and preserve all types of dunes and protected species of flora and fauna. The administrative criminal provisions of the Law are also revised. The discussion was attended by the MPs Mladen Shishkov, Stanislav Ivanov, Boris Yachev and Ivelina Vassileva. People's representative Mladen Shishkov expressed his opinion that he supports the proposed changes in principle, and there are details that need to be refined between first and second readings. The preliminary implementation of the orders for tenders is a very important topic that needs to be developed in detail so as to ensure both the proper planning and legal certainty of the tourist season and the protection of the life and health of tourists. People's representative Boris Yachev believes that the definition of road vehicles needs to be refined. Takes note of the texts relating to the granting of a concession or renting of beaches which are not granted access to motor vehicles, such as ambulances, which is related to providing lifesaving aid. The President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva expressed her position that it is necessary to specify the proportionality of the proposed sanctions in the bill, given that environmental legislation can also impose fines. It is also necessary to refine the definition of beach accessories in order not to misinterpret. The Bulgarian Black Sea Association (Bulgarian Black Sea coast) presented its opinion suggesting that all dunes after the beaches be exempt from the requirement to be public government property. They also announced against camping on the beaches, offering to be located behind the beaches with written consent of the respective owners. Representatives of the Wildlife Association "Balkani" and "To save Kara dere" and expressed opinions in support of the preservation of dunes and prevent the placing of moving objects on them. Specialized measures were proposed to limit construction in areas falling within protected areas and sea beaches for environmentally friendly tourism. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 14 votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u107	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. I have to ask if there will be an importer's opinion? There won't be. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u108	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! From the political party GERB parliamentary group, we support in principle the texts proposed by the importer. The philosophy of the Law is correct and is a step in the right direction. Of course, there are details that will need to be cleared between first and second votes, and we will have to comply with the opinions of NGOs and institutions. The proposed changes concern three main aspects. One of the most important topics is the preliminary execution of orders for auctions. This is a very sensitive and painful topic at the moment. It must be developed in detail so as to ensure both the proper planning and legal certainty of the tourist season and the protection of the life and health of tourists. Other topics that are affected in the Bill and in principle we support are a new type of regulation regarding the placing of beach accessories on dunes and in general all activities that could in any way affect them. This is also an extremely important topic and we fully support the changes in this direction. With regard to administrative penal provisions, the texts are described in detail. Some of them, however, are too restrictive, which will require their revision between first and second votes, but the direction, as I have already said, is correct. A precise definition of the responsibilities of all administrative bodies whose activity concerns the protection of state interest in the coastal area is necessary. We hope that after the proposals between the first and second votes are tabled and are subject to a more detailed discussion, we will find a good balance in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Ali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will, in principle, support the proposed texts in the Black Sea Coast Bill. We also believe that between first and second reading there are many things that need to be cleared. The negotiating colleagues mentioned the main details that we will focus on. I think that with this bill, all associations, non-governmental organizations, environmentalists will be pleased after the adoption of these texts and I hope from now on with this law everything will be regulated in the Dear colleagues, this way and private owners along these lines will be satisfied by having certain rights. In this way, the roads will be regulated and the so-called state, forest roads that will contribute to the free access of citizens to the beach stripes. Where they are surrounded or illegally made, they will be regulated and there will be a system for the use of these stripes. I hope, with joint efforts between first and second readings, proposing some serious changes, that we regulate the entire systemic activity around the Black Sea coast and contribute to a calming down between all stakeholders and state institutions, and private individuals, and environmentalists, and those who, as non-governmental organisations, have not been satisfied with the status quo that has been so far. I hope that we will contribute to the development of tourism in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kolev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! In the Law on the Black Sea Coast in the Commission, I have expressed our disagreement with a number of proposals, and I will only quote some of them to find out what kind of nonsense we are talking about, and if we do not touch them between first and second readings, a major problem will be born to the state. ................................................................................... (5) The conditions of the invitation to tender on a sea beach shall be published up to 30 days before the deadline for submission of the applications. Well, he could be one day! So, the deadline is tomorrow, we're publishing today. Who is this and who are these able in a few hours to work out all the tender application documentation, to appear at the tender and to apply conscientiously as concessionaires? When we talk to people who want to do this kind of business, they say: it is a law made for someone. Before the elections, colleagues, is this the way to give a message to your constituents, to our constituents, that we are adopting a total lobbying law, a law for someone? I continue with a few more points to mark you just how important it is between first and second readings not to embarrass us in the National Assembly because we will be shamed afterwards by the voters! I read further at the same point: the order of the Minister of Tourism to tender for renting on a sea beach is an individual administrative act and is subject to prior implementation. Imagine: the court then finds the irregularity of the procedure and another, however, the minister has already concluded the contract, the procedure is going away. ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13: The chief architect of the municipality shall authorise the issuance or refusal of the authorisation under para. 3 within 30 days of the occurrence on the basis of this. Here we attach to the chief architect the inability to refuse to grant permission if he believes it to be unlawful, improper. However, just in case, in order not to leave the chief architect unpunished, in § 8 we have imposed a penalty of up to 5 thousand. lv. Just in case, for doing his job. However, as we also have penalties in the Law on Construction on the territory, we have here a duplication of the punishments of the Chief Architect. I'm moving on: .................................................. It shall be prohibited to place beach accessories and tents. I'm stopping here to explain the beach gear. Ladies and gentlemen, she puts a towel in a zone where she thinks she's not allowed to beach. The charge is up to 1000 leva. Well, a very expensive towel! A very expensive tan! A thousand leva to catch some tan and vitamin D. This madness that wrote it, why does he want us to oppose the voter, I don't know? Why should we now tell the entire Bulgarian people: you are going to the beach and just in case you bring one ball with money because two dues - two thousand leva, just in case, to enjoy your tourism! Another very interesting case. The area where dunes are, where is the beach, is placed with one sign. The tag is placed by an incompetent person. Usually, they pull it to the paid part so they can shove it into the paid part. Equality between a paid area and an unpaid zone You know, all the voters are screaming, yelling and protesting that there is no such equality one is in the ravines, or at the end of the beach, the others are arranged as they should be. In other words, a real outline of the beach with clear, accurate, even distribution of paid and unpaid part is not available. We let incompetent people bring state institutions into major disputes. I continue at the same point:.. It is forbidden to pass, park and stay in vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers on mobile dunes (white) dunes (white) dunes)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, agricultural machinery can come in! Tractors can safely go into the dunes. They're gone. Carts, too. The ATV is very valuable work. The ATVs and buggies are especially able to walk in the dunes! And they're the ones who made the salad dunes. If our goal is to destroy the dunes, this text is wonderful, it does a great job! In the same order of thinking about not stopping for fines, penalties, penalties, however, dear colleagues, I do not see here what is... Ah, and the responsibilities are blurry? the Ministry of Interior check one thing, ecology check another, tourism check three, regional development check four, DNCC check five?????????? If we want things not to happen, that's the way! If we want no real governance on the Black Sea coast, that's the way! If we want to keep being spitting out that we're adopting poor laws for the benefit of someone, that's the way it is! Just before the election is a wonderful option! The local elections are coming up. Ask which of the locals who have been living there for thousands of years, they've kept their dunes, they've been feeding on this, have these people asked them about the beach layout? Did anyone ask the municipality if she wanted to run this beach? In this case we are talking about the Law on the Black Sea Coast, but the local people who live there do not have access to the sea, the beach is given to the city, the ports under other control, all of this is taken from them and they are in a concentration camp. Let us ask the question now between first and second readings to say a number of NGOs and residents there how and in what way can things happen well? I'm not telling you this so that it doesn't happen, but on the contrary that it happens and it happens well, so that we don't punish the chief architects, load them with additional guilt and with additional sanctions, and pay attention to them, it's not even allowed, it's not even the chief architects to do the schemes! There was such a proposal that the schemes were made by the main architects. Do you know what the Ministry's answer is? They had no jurisdiction! The chief architect had no jurisdiction! If the chief architect has no competence, then does the incompetent concessionaire have that competence? He didn't have the competence to make the schemes, and he has the competence to carry out the fine. We're turning the population against us. There's no point in stopping myself like this. It's huge. Please, however, all of you, all of us take it seriously between first and second readings so that things can happen so that we give the local residents the right to have a determining role in managing the surrounding stripes. They asked me a question: we have dunes in Primorsko, how do we get through them? In Primorsko, people walk through dunes as they please. How do we get through? There's nowhere at stake here, and isn't it nice to have wooden walkways set up, to be set up, to be able to cross over and show the dunes to tourists? The other day, they were on TV in the United States of America, flowering fields. The people there have a special ecopolitan police department, which if you enter among the flowers a cruel fine, but they are given the opportunity to take advantage of the film, to love. Well, someone's fainting on the beach. The ambulance can't get in. Where are the possibilities with a wooden road? Something that does not violate the dunes, but allows access to these roads? Or we'll do the same thing again in Delphine: we donate the access, we give it to a concession, and we drop it with a helicopter from above. There's a lot of stuff. Please consider how to form an expert committee that will help everyone selected from these regions to make this a good law for Bulgaria, good for all of us and not to turn the population against us for the benefit of two or three users on the beach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kolev. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! As said by colleague Mladen Shishkov, we from our parliamentary group will support at first reading the changes proposed for amendment to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. I think that these changes are timely and are caused by the situations that we have seen recently, rather the violations that have been made on the Black Sea with the destruction of dunes, with a number of violations that we see during the summer active tourist season by tenants and concessionaires on beaches. These changes are an attempt by the Ministry of Tourism to refine the possibility of issuing administrative acts. In the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, I asked a question to the Ministry's management what administrative act did they issue in this case the notorious violation of the destruction of the dunes of the Smokey? From the Ministry's reply, I understand that by the current Act they do not have this administrative opportunity. Even if they had issued an administrative act, it would have been a high percentage of certainty that it would have fallen into the Administrative Court. And it is precisely what has been done with these changes that the possibility of the Ministry of Tourism issuing such administrative acts is refined. I very much welcome the changes, because this will be the least prevention of subsequent such violations, although specifically this infringement is subject not only to an administrative sanction but also to criminal prosecution. With the other changes that are, the possibility of the Ministry having subsequent control over the beach tenants and the concessionaires respectively for stricter compliance with the commitments they have made under the contracts concluded is refined. Naturally, I have some remarks, too, and I hope that between first and second readings will be cleared, especially when it comes to the possibility of imposing penalties in the setting of beach accessories. In my opinion, this is also an extreme. I don't see, first of all, with what putting a towel, a sunbed or even sticking an umbrella in the dunes will disturb their integrity? This really needs to be refined, even more so, I don't think that control will be effective. In any case, between first and second reading, the Law needs to be refined, but most of the proposals that have been made are in the right direction and we will support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone else who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the debate. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u116	Firstly, I would like to thank everyone for the principled support of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. This bill is extremely important to us in view of the maximum and correct precision of both the violations that are carried out on sea beaches and the administrative sanctions that are imposed as a result of these violations. We fully support and support any constructive dialogue and proposals between first and second readings so as to maximize the texts in order to be in the public interest and in the interest of offering a better quality tourist product for summer tourism. I would like to make the necessary clarification in relation to some of the speeches so that it is not under the impression that from this high tribune there are manipulations and suggestions for both the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Management of the Black Sea Coast and the current Bulgarian legislation. With regard to the proposal under § 1 the terms of the invitation to tender on a sea beach shall be published within 30 days. I note that the current Law on concessions should make a very big difference between what it is to rent a beach and what it is to give a beach a concession. For clarification only: when renting out a beach, this is an auction under the Rules for Implementation of the State Property Act with clearly defined documentation and filling out a declaration and data that are available on a business road and where the only criterion is the lowest price. I note that both financial and economic justification, legal analysis, geodetic analysis and a number of other justifications and documents are required for the procedures for concessions that are much more complex than the rental auctions. In this respect, I respect that, in the current Law on beach concessions of 1 January 2019, the legislator has not provided for a statutory deadline for the submission of applications and tenders and the same period is determined at the discretion of each concession. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, Annex 6 of the Law on concessions, I stress, the minimum content of the notice of initiation is indicated, and in that regard. 11 of the same commitment to specify the time limit for receipt of applications and its maximum or minimum duration has not been determined. So I wish that this high tribune would not imply certain concepts and actions that could be carried out by the administration possibly in a future uncertain event. Similarly, the current Administrative Procedure Code provides for the prior implementation of an individual administrative act for which the contracting entity is responsible. With regard to the other suggestion that the Ministry of Tourism did not know how to manage sea beaches and, see, there were no clear rules on how to measure the 50 per cent paid area and the 50 per cent free location area of beachries, I think that if everyone wants to know the rules on how concessions are managed, the legislation in force is sufficiently detailed. In order to do so, geodetic monitoring is carried out by specialists who are competent on these issues and clearly show where the 50% zone is and where the free placement of beach accessories is, continuous monitoring and control is carried out throughout the active beach season. I also note that for almost two years this bill has been for public discussion and more than 60 opinions have been received from NGOs, municipalities, it is agreed and each one has expressed an opinion taken into account. I also draw attention to the fact that, under current legislation, concessionaires are the ones entitled to offer the schemes on which the moving sites are approved, as well as the areas for the deployment of beach accessories respectively. With regard to the competences of the chief architect of the municipality there will be a opposition if the main architect makes the schemes and then approves the permissions to place the moving objects. As I said, the idea of this bill is really right to correct the violations which, as a result of our work, are established in connection with sea beach management, to improve the quality of the tourist product, to have a clear definition of the responsibilities of the control bodies according to their competences in special laws. Once again, I would like to thank you for the principle of support for the Bill, and I stress that, between first and second reading, all the texts that need to be refined will support this being done. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-28.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 902-01-8, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Before closing the meeting, I will read you parliamentary control reports on 29 March 2019. 1. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer a question from the National Representative Iglika Ivanova. 2. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer three questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, Dora Hristova and Slavcho Atanasov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the MP Polina Tsankova to the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva is postponed. Due to participation in a joint meeting of the governments of the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania in Bucharest on 28 and 29 March 2019 in the parliamentary control on 29 March 2019, the following shall not be present: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. The next regular plenary session shall be from 9.00 on 29 March 2019. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
