ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly Draft of a decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations in European and Bulgarian media about the scandalous purchase scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals. Yordan Tsonev is the chairman of the interim committee of inquiry. I propose that it be included as point 3 for today's meeting 11 July 2019 and that the rest be renumbered accordingly. Colleagues, please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 181, Against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in the implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, by its order he authorised, within the period 12 to 22 July 2019, the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a group of soldiers from the Navy of the Kingdom of Belgium, and sailing in the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria, entry into the inland waters and visiting of the port of Varna of ships belonging to the naval forces of Great Britain, Canada, the Republic of Turkey, Romania, the Republic of Italy, the French Republic and the Hellenic Republic. The visit of the group and ships is of a non-military nature and is related to their participation in the National Teaching of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with international participation. The notification was received on 10 July 2019 with entry No 903-09-36 and was made available to the Defence Committee. Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: REPORT ON THE SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW, No 954-01-5. It was introduced by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 1 February 2019. It was adopted at the first vote on 13 March 2019. Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, to introduce us to the Report at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 1 February 2019 the Council adopted a decision to amend and supplement the Health Act, No 954-01-5, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of Parliament on 1 February 2019, adopted on the first vote on 13 March 2019. "Renewal and Supplement to the Health Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u3	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 172 MPs: 170, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u4	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u5	Statements? Come in for a statement, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like, at the beginning of the discussion and the vote on the draft in question, to clarify some of the texts of some of the provisions which were not supported by the Committee on Health. As I informed the members of the Committee on Health at our meeting held on 20 June 2019, during the preparation for a second vote on the draft Law on the proposed by § 4 and 5 the introduction of a ban on smoking water pipe products, which do not contain tobacco in closed and open public places, we sent an inquiry to the Directorate-General for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs, Section B2 "Preventing technical barriers' to the European Commission as regards the need to notify the proposed provisions. The reason for this inquiry is the content of the item. 55 of the Preamble of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC, which provides the following: It's 55. A Member State should be entitled to continue to apply or introduce national legal rules applicable to all items placed on its national market in respect of aspects not governed by this Directive, provided that they are compatible with the TFEU and do not impede the full application of this Directive. In the same way and under the same conditions, a Member State could, inter alia, introduce rules or prohibition on accessories used for tobacco products, including water pipes, for plant smoking products, and introduce rules or prohibition on products that resemble, in appearance, a type of tobacco or related products. Prior notification is required for national technical provisions pursuant to Directive 2015/1535/EU. Also, an opinion letter was sent to the Ministry of Economy, which is the notification authority. The answers to both institutions clearly state that Directive 2014/40/EU allows Member States to introduce and apply national legal rules applicable to all items placed on their national market in respect of aspects which are not regulated by the Directive to introduce rules or prohibition on accessories used for tobacco products, including water pipes, provided that the draft provisions are notified in advance under Directive (EU)2015/1535, laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services. The purpose of the notification shall be preventive control to prevent unjustified and disproportionate requirements concerning the marketing of tobacco and related products. The opinions state that the legal provisions governing the prohibition of smoking indoors of non-smoking water pipe articles fall within the definition of the Technical Regulation, within the meaning of art. 1 point (e) of Directive (EU)2015/1535 in relation to the definition of other requirements. There is a caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union which gives an interpretation of the scope of the concept of a technical regulation. Case C-267/03 Lars Eric Lindbergh in the sense is similar to the proposed amendments to the Health Act. In conclusion, both institutions consider that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act should be notified in accordance with Directive (EU)2015/1535 and that the failure to notify under that directive constitutes a procedural breach which could lead to the failure of the proposed amendments to the Health Act. I would like to point out here that another consequence of non-compliance with the notification procedure could also be the launch of a criminal procedure by the European Commission against Bulgaria, with the amount of fines amounting to hundreds of thousands of euros. In the absence of notification art. 260, § 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) Euros. It should be borne in mind that the bill was tabled by a group of MPs, not by the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Legislative Acts and the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we have no legal basis to carry out the notification procedure on our own. [[Noise.]] Please bring order to the evil one!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u7	Please take your seats. The weather, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u8	It is also appropriate to point out that the written proposals submitted by us between the first and second votes of the bill in the Child Protection Act, within the scope of the ban on the supply and sale of tobacco products to children, are used also related articles, which includes not only articles for water pipe not containing tobacco but also electronic cigarettes, refill containers, nicotine fluids and smoking products other than tobacco products. [[Noise.]] Based on the above, we believe that...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u9	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u10	...the ban on smoking water pipe products should be subject to state policy on public health protection, which is carried out by the Ministry of Health and the Council of Ministers. In this context, it would be correct to propose these legislative changes to the attention of the National Assembly precisely by means of a bill submitted by the Ministry of Health, respectively by the Council of Ministers, having passed the appropriate procedures for public discussion...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u11	The weather, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u12	...and a notification. That is why our parliamentary group refrains from supporting paragraphs 1, 4, 5 and 8, points. 1 of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u13	Thank you. You have the floor for lines. I can't see. Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I will express a slightly different view from the one Dr. Daritkova just presented. Yes, I agree with the claim that there is a need to be a notification. Yes, it would be good for these amendments and additions to be made with a bill of the Council of Ministers, but the Law of the Council of Ministers, which is currently uploaded on the public consultation website, does not contain such amendments. So the only amendments that can be seen at this time are those that are in this bill, which I believe there has been enough time since February to hold detailed discussions, public discussions and there is no obstacle to being dealt with and adopted. Why do I think this bill can be passed? There is a lasting parliamentary practice with numerous laws, the Tax Act on excises and tax warehouses, the Value Added Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the State Aid Act, the Agricultural Assistance Act, the Film Industry Act, the Tobacco Act, tobacco and related articles, in which amending laws had to be notified and which contained the following proposal, which was adopted in the Transitional and Final Provisions, namely that the relevant regulations of the drafts to be notified came into force three days after a positive decision by the European Commission under a procedure which was set out again in the Transitional and Final Provisions. There is also a positive decision when the European Commission has not delivered within six months of receipt of the notification. So there is an established long-term parliamentary practice in cases where we have provisions in a bill that should be notified, but a notification has not been made, to have a delay in the entry into force of these bills. If § 1 is supported by an importer, we will make such proposals in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I am voting against the rejection of § 1. Vote 153 MPs: 127 against 19, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u16	Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it after the word "States" is added. 2. They're creating an al. 2, 3 and 4: The activities of municipalities in the field of health prevention among the population and doctors in and on the occasion of the medical care provided may be assisted by health mediators. (3) The Minister of Health shall lay down by decree the requirements for the activities of health mediators. (4) The activity under para. 2 may also be assisted by non-profit legal entities with proven experience in the relevant field under conditions, in accordance with the terms and criteria laid down by the ordinance under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u17	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor because the text makes a substantial change. State policy and health policy in general so far is such that state institutions plan and conduct a policy aimed at protecting health and ensuring a healthy living environment, and we are currently recording that, apart from state, this policy will also be a policy of local self-government authorities, municipal authorities. My question is about this line, which is accepted in art. 29, which is basic in the general part of the Health Act: in what form will municipalities be supported to conduct and develop such a policy? It's a state policy. Back in Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior was one with the Ministry of People's Health. This was during the royal time the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of People's Health. Health policy is now being transferred to the municipalities as well. My question is: how will municipalities be supported in this thing to conduct such a policy, and will it be united? That's one. The other thing is that in art. 10 of the same Law this thing is arranged as the competence of regional health inspections. How exactly will the work of the municipal authorities be organised and the reconciliation of this activity with health inspectors and regional health inspections, what will be the subordination, since so far this is an exclusive activity regulated and funded by the state? Now that the municipalities are involved in this activity, will they finance it and comply with the state policy of regional health inspections at regional level? The second part of my speech is about health mediators. I see, I read that they are already regulated in many places in strategies, in the classification of professions. We are currently recording that health prevention, which is also a specific activity of regional health inspections, has a special health promotion programme, and my question is again: the health prevention carried out by mediators and declared here that this can be carried out.. Do we regulate somewhere in the legislation the attitude of health mediators and these non-governmental organisations, to which we also allow them to have a connection in their activities and what they do with health inspectors? Because for a health promotion on a given activity RZI can say that one thing should be done, and the health mediator in a particular neighborhood can say that another should be done. This connection and subordination of these persons with RZI how is it regulated? Otherwise, I have nothing against their active involvement, because they work and they need to be legally reflected, but the connection with regional health inspections and their departments is a health promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u20	Madam President, I expected one of the importers to protect these texts because we have supported them and redefined them correctly by importer. I am convinced that you all know the activities of health mediators who have worked on the field for more than 10 years and support various types of activities in vulnerable groups, mainly Roma societies. In relation to the measles epidemic in 2010, it became relevant to support this type of additional inclusion in the preventive activities of mediators to support the activities not only of regional health inspections which, by law, have a commitment to implement the policies of the Ministry of Health in terms of promotion and prevention, but to support the activities of general practitioners as well, because they need such support specifically in the implementation of immunoprophylaxis. These mediators can also be included in many other activities, because it is important in this way to intervention in these communities and to give people the opportunity to acquaint Bulgarian citizens in these communities with the principles of healthy lifestyle and with all preventive measures and policies that are conducted by the Ministry of Health. So far, however, the activities of health mediators have in no way been regulated by a regulation and all those involved with them were willing to accept these texts in the Health Act, because this allows for a clearer and concrete description of all their responsibilities and commitments. Health mediators are otherwise appointed to municipalities, they are an activity financed through the state budget and municipalities, as secondary authorising officers. In this regard, the subordination is clear. In this regard, on the basis of the previous communication opportunities between regional health inspections, such as state authorities in the health and municipalities system, to be able to co-operate and to support themselves together with medical aid contractors with regard to health prevention and promotion activities. I believe that this activity will be financed in the same way, municipalities will not have additional obligations. In any case, they receive funds from the state budget to finance the activities of health mediators and other preventive programmes which are implemented as state policy. I believe that this is a step forward, because in time, precisely thanks to health mediators, we have achieved a wide immunization range in these communities, something that we really need to appreciate in relation to the current threat of increasing cases of measles. I therefore believe that these proposals are timely and are the most useful thing that we introduce in this law, apart from the ban on smoking tobacco and various tobacco products for children up to 18 years old.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u21	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2, which shall become § 1, on the Commission's report. Vote 149 MPs: for 145, not against, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u22	Under § 3, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 The word "smoking" is replaced everywhere by the use of tobacco and related articles.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u23	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! The attitude towards this bill suffered a very strange metamorphosis from complete and unconditional support at the very beginning when it was introduced, as its main goal was to protect people's health, from support in the hall of first voting until hesitation in this support and even forms of disguised sabotage when watching it at second reading. I will repeat some of the arguments that fellow Christian Mitev said just now. The so-called delayed act of the law is not a nonsense, as experts tried to persuade us yesterday. In more than 19 laws in Bulgaria, adopted in the last three or four years a large part of them related to taxes, with finance, the Law on excises and tax warehouses, the Law on personal incomes, the Law on Tobacco and Tobacco Products, the Law on the payment of farmers, a similar type of delay has been introduced and acted. I cannot understand what is heavy in changing the positions of colleagues from GERB during these few months, while the Bill was being looked at in the committees. What has actually put on the scale against the cost of human health this stubborn resistance to adopt regulation in this volume, which offers regulation for the so-called bongs as it is for cigarettes? There's a reason. Is it political, economic? Since it is more than clear that it is not legal. There are no restrictions in the Bulgarian legislation to adopt this measure with a delay and to enter into force in three or four months. If anyone in this room is worried that this regulation will enter before the local elections, calmly, as things are going and even the delay is adopted, it will not become a fact earlier than New Year's. So if the reasons are political, then I'm giving you an argument to put those reasons aside. If there are any other reasons, let someone come out here and say them openly. So I urge you to support our proposal for art. 53, § 3, in which we want regulation for the so-called pipe products not containing tobacco to be the same as the regulation for cigarettes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are currently in § 3 which is supported by the Commission and which explicitly records and supports importers with regard to the addition of smoking with the use of tobacco and related products, i.e. the water pipe. So, specifically in this paragraph, there is no question of sabotage. My fellow Members, I have put forward my arguments on how legislation should be made and I have put forward arguments that are related to all the laws of national and European, which we must comply with. We cannot allow, as the National Assembly, to propose a legislative product which unfortunately confirms some insufficient legislative practices. We have consulted some of the laws cited by colleagues, which have introduced a delay in the operation of certain paragraphs in Transitional and Final Provisions following a notification procedure. However, I would like to stress again and repeat what I have already said for a long time that the notification is normally carried out by the Council of Ministers, and this is a procedure that precedes the entry of the Law for consideration in plenary. Furthermore, if it is subsequent notification, it must once again pass through the authorities of the Council of Ministers, respectively the Ministry of Economy and therefore we have asked it and it firmly confirmed that it needs notification because there is no other provision allowing MPs to make such a procedure. And as a third argument, I would stress that the previous bill, which you are quoting and which has a postponement procedure, requires a positive opinion from the European Commission. Well, colleagues, it doesn't have an opinion! The European Commission in the notification procedure or does not give any opinion, which means that it agrees with the proposed legislative changes or, if there are any objections from the Member States of the European Union, makes further inquiries and questions to the party which has introduced the relevant legislative restrictions. So, such legislative practice, I think, is incorrect and unacceptable, and I think that the Committee on Health has signalled so far that it produces legislative products which, at least in terms of technically correct spelling of the laws, have always been right. In addition, fellow Members, let's get to the point. Here, in this paragraph, there is no place at all for such a statement and let us not be concerned about politics, because it is really important for us that the policies that are essential in terms of health mediators, regarding the ban on children up to 18 years of age, are implemented. We have supported them in full and I believe that this is a sufficient step forward to protect people's lives and health, and I am also relying on colleagues to argue to protect the other texts of the Law that I have had to defend.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u27	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yachev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u28	A statement concerning part of the statement that there is no procedure for examining the Law to make a proposal for notification. Colleagues from the Health Commission asked me last year to send a bill on medicinal products to human medicine for notification to the Minister of Health. I think it was not a problem with the same practice to approach this Bill when it is seen in the Health Commission to be sent to the Ministry of Health, respectively to the Ministry of Economy, for notification and for the Law to be adopted when this notification was received. I say it as an option, of course, if there is political will to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this comparison was incorrect because the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine was previously notified and then proposed by the Council of Ministers of the Committee on Health. The notification procedure was imposed before the entry of the Law in plenary and it was because between first and second readings we made valid and serious changes to the original texts. So here again, the procedure that I put out in advance was followed, with regard to the texts of the Council of Ministers, a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers and the notification procedure was carried out after a second vote in the Commission and before the bill entered for confirmation in plenary. So in this sense, I believe that my arguments are confirmed and not excluded from what you have proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u31	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 141 MPs: 138, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u32	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs to create a new § 4. The motion has been withdrawn. Under § 4 there is a proposal made by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u33	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 4. They voted 129 MPs: 112 against 16, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u34	According to § 5, there is a proposal made by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u35	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 5. Vote 127 MPs: 104 against 15, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u36	According to § 6 there is a proposal made by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120, para. 1, t. 6 the words "against use" shall be replaced by "use" and after the word "tutunes" shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u37	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 6, which shall become § 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u38	According to § 7 there is a proposal made by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 122, para. 1, t. 6 the words "smoking equipment, use" shall be replaced by "use of tobacco and related articles."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u39	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. They voted 130 MPs: 124, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u40	Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced (2) Who shall admit to an object governed by him an infringement under art. 54, 56 or 56a shall be punished with a fine from 300 to 500 BGN, with a penalty of 1000 to 1500 BGN when the infringement was committed by a sole trader, or with a penalty of 3000 to 5000 BGN, where the infringement was committed by a legal person. (3) In case of repeated infringement under para. 2 is imposed a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN, respectively a penalty from 1500 to 3000 BGN. For a sole trader, and from 5000 to 10 000 leva. ..for a legal person.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u41	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Milkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm taking the floor on this, and I'm sure the lawyers in this room will understand, but I'm going to try to get you all to understand. The current text of the Law, which we are changing, has sanctioned the conduct of violations, he says: "He who has broken the law. " This is art. 218 of the Health Act, one of the most used texts for imposing sanctions under the Health Act, because it covers smoking bans, the ban on direct advertising and the ban on the sale of alcoholic beverages. The text says: "Who broke these three bans." We are now being offered a text that says: "The text that he allows into an object he manages." It's a huge difference. One thing is the perpetration of an administrative violation, a completely different one under art. 10 OF ZANN: instigation, aiding, hiding, privacy is punished only in cases specified by law. At the moment, by changing the text, we are de facto abolishing the imposition of a sanction for the conduct of such acts, and we only remain a sanction for privacy. Yeah, that's exactly what we're doing. The other thing is that we are entering a new element into a subject-run object. Managing an establishment is not the same as carrying out a business activity and all that fits must then be proved by the founders of the acts in administrative-criminal proceedings, by the punishing authority and possibly by the people who will protect those acts in court. We wave, I repeat: the person who broke the law and replaced him with the person who allowed such activities to be carried out in an object under his control. In the current text of para. 2 and 3, which we are changing, the sanctions are given for a sole trader - a legal person, and we are currently replacing them with texts in para. 2 and 3 which carry out a sanction for acquittal and para. 1 remains exposed only to individuals, but not to legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u43	And thank you, Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to explain the logic of this change, even though I'm not a lawyer. Alinea 2 of art. 218 remains in force, and it says that he who breaks art. 54, 56 or 56a, is punished with a fine from 300 to 500 BGN and if the same infringement is repeated from 500 to 1000 BGN. That is to say, this is the specific offender - the person who has allowed himself - this is usually a person in a forbidden place to smoke. We are introducing a provision of para. 2 and 3, which is more correct with regard to the administration, because there is no way to sanction in any way the owner of an establishment, for example, who has allowed smoking in this establishment. In other words, a commitment to comply with the smoking ban must also be the owner of the restaurant because he has accepted to work under such conditions in an area where smoking is prohibited. I believe that this mechanism of criminal regulations regarding a violation of the smoking ban will really allow it to be implemented more successfully, because that is also our goal with the legislative changes we are making.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u45	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u46	Dear Dr. Daritkova, I allow myself to answer you because many times! I've worked on it hundreds of times. 218 in such administrative and criminal proceedings. Countless times! I am telling you directly: when you smoke in a joint, the fine for the restaurant at the moment has always been BGN 3000. Separately for the natural person who smokes, also 300 leva. Always! The word "admissible" was missing, so in my opinion, the text could have been: the person who committed or admitted. At the moment, with the change of the text, the following is received: all legal entities, sole traders, who are sanctimonized for this much easier than individuals, because the liability of the legal person is objective and there you are not proving guilt, but directly punishing it. Once you see smoking in the restaurant, you immediately punish the legal person with 3,000 leva. Fine, you don't prove additional elements. Now, first you have to prove that this legal person is managing an object. The subject can run one firm, and the cash register could belong to another firm. I'm telling you, it's very real. The other thing you keep is al. 1 You are only seeking a fine, but not a penalty, the possibility of fines is dropped at all. So there's only a hypothesis of accommodating, but not of committing. You tear down an opportunity with this text under art. ) (a.k.a. 1 and para. 2 then for the legal persons the fine of 3000 BGN. It was running, but it was automated. To me, the text could have been: the person who violated or admitted it would have opened the possibility of accommodating, which often the actors mistaken. They say the legal person admitted it and their act fell because they didn't have a co-op. That is why I am concerned at the moment with such a text, you remove a provision that has been working for an act by a legal person and will remain only for privacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u47	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of the new § 5. They voted 116 MPs: for 82, against 5, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u48	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs to create a new § 9. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs to create § 10. The motion has been withdrawn. According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 6: ........................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 43 and 44: It's 43. "Tutuneum products' are goods within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 4 of the Additional Provisions of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. 44. supplied items related to tobacco products are items within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 8 of the Additional Provisions of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u49	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 8, which becomes § 6. They voted 119 MPs: 109, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u50	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u51	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the division of the Law, supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 111, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u52	Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... The Minister of Health shall issue the ordinance under art. 29, para. 3 within 4 months of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u53	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 7 proposed by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u54	Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5b, para. 3 the words..... and related to 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 1 sentence first after the word "Tututevi" is added "and related". 3. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision establishes the following: 19 and 20: "19." "Tutuneum products' are goods within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 4 of the Additional Provisions of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. 20. supplied items related to tobacco products are items within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 8 of the Additional Provisions of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u55	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 9, which shall become § 8 of the Commission Report. They voted 124 MPs: 119, none, abstention 5. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading the bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Moving on to point two for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to her chairman Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u56	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for Ms. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Mr. Galin Nikolov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u57	Please vote on admission in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u58	They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u59	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 954-01-47, submitted by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 5 July 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 9 July 2019 discussing the quoted bill. The meeting of the Commission was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Mrs. Diana Fileva, Chief Legal Consult, and Hristo Rangelov, Senior Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Legal and Fisheries and Aquaculture: Mr. Galin Nikolov, Executive Director. The bill and its motives were presented by Galin Nikolov. The draft explicitly states that the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture is required to take the necessary action to collect both the amounts unduly paid and overpaid under projects financed by the European funds and the State budget and the fines and other monetary penalties provided for in European Union legislation. The debt of a refundable grant due to an infringement by the users of aid and beneficiaries of the measures under the Operational Programme for Development of the Sector 70 of the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds to be established by issuing a decision imposing a financial correction under Chapter 5 of that Law. This provision will also apply to decisions imposing financial corrections issued until the entry into force of the law. It is written that the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture has the power to issue acts establishing public public public claims under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. A legal basis shall be established for the Executive Director to approve by order rules determining the amount of financial corrections for detected irregularities, representing infringements of regulations and contractual relations between the Agency and beneficiaries of grants, taking into account the extent, severity, duration and systemicity of the infringement of the conditions of support. The order and the rules will be published in the Official Journal. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill by making concrete proposals to refine the texts. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, they said they understood the need to increase the collection rate, but expressed doubts that the proposed changes would lead to the goal result and assessed them as premature. They recalled that unlike the Rural Development Programme, on which for the entire period of action there is one and the same Managing Authority, under the Sector Programme, the Managing Authority has changed and has passed from the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency to the Directorate at the Ministry of Agriculture Food and Forestry. As a major problem, the changes concern projects under the Operational Programme for the Development of the Sector ".................. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry explained that the rules which the Executive Director of the Agency will approve do not in any way constitute a legal basis for the issuing of the financial corrections themselves, as they are also issued at the moment, and concern only the way in which the adjustment is determined. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" very strongly declared against the bill, as at the time of the conclusion of the contracts there is no obligation for beneficiaries to implement a production programme. A similar obligation was introduced after the signing of the key contracts several months before the end of the monitoring period. From the parliamentary group of the European Parliament, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has expressed doubts as to whether the proposed changes are necessary and whether they will lead to a higher collection rate. From the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics, the Bulgarians stated that they support the bill. GERB's parliamentary group said the Bill aims only to remedy identified deficiencies in order to avoid the risk of financial losses. Therefore, it is necessary to reaffirm the powers of the Executive Director for issuing decisions imposing financial corrections. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes for the European Union, 4 votes against the EU and 5 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 954-01-47, submitted by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 5 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. Will the importers present the bill and who will do this? Will there be a presentation? If not, let's proceed to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u62	I'm opening the debate on the bill. Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We're 27 lawyers in Parliament, and I think all of them will support what I'm about to say, because with this point, we're about to make a legal absurd. The simplest and most accessible way to explain what this is about. At the moment, under the current law, these people have signed contracts. They are realized, I repeat, by the law in force. At the moment, with a reverse date, this law is hereby repealed and we are sanctioning these people. Even in Roman law, this is called absurd. You can't reverse the law and sanction those who worked on this text of the law. I can get into a very big statement, but I'll give you a brief explanation of what's going to happen. From now on, there are several consequences: Firstly, if what we are going to vote on and enter the Constitutional Court, it will necessarily cancel our decision. Secondly, if these people who have been working under this law, at the moment we are harming them, they will ruin the state of affairs and, believe me, there is no court that does not respect their complaints. Maybe you understand what this is about. We're going to create a legal absurdity right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will look at the proposal from another aspect not so much about the possibility and the need to impose financial corrections for the past period, but about: what are we currently doing with the amendments to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act? The proposed changes relate to the first programming period 2007 - 2013. This programming period of the very small Programme is characterized by a continuous process of scandals, sanctions, which respectively reflected in the contracting and implementation of the projects. However, despite these inconveniences that created the Programme, the Managing Authority was one in this period, and now another for better implementation, all those who are subject to financial corrections, i.e. beneficiaries who have signed contracts, have written down rules on how to be checked and how financial penalties can be imposed on their projects. First of all, these are private projects and the change in the Law concerns them. In other words, there can be no financial corrections to projects and contracts concluded where there is no such requirement as to negotiate. The fact is that a contract is being concluded and the monitoring of the projects is five years, but the business plan must be implemented for 10 years. You cannot on the second or third year look for opportunities to implement the business plan after the indicators of its implementation are for a 10-year period. That is, in the 10-year period, if these indicators are not met, you can impose financial corrections and sanctions. Indeed, in this programme, as well as in the Rural Development Programme, there are great many differences in monitoring period, period of action of business plans, and also a given right of construction, which are realized in relation to projects. From this point of view, our objections to the proposed bill are in the following guidelines. Firstly, the changes were introduced very quickly with the assumption that if there is publicity regarding the sanctions imposed, we will save ourselves financial corrections from the European Commission at the expense of imposing them on those who have negotiated the projects. Secondly, and now there are financial corrections. These financial corrections shall be appealed in court. Therefore, that methodology or rules will be published does not mean anything since there is a Regulation. This means that the court is watching the contracts and their execution. For the financial correction implemented through the Executive Agency in this period, the court is in practice deciding whether or not it is legal. That is why we will have rules published in the Official Journal, precisely by the rules of the European Union regulation, we do nothing different. Thirdly, I would very much like to have a good interaction between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Executive Agency. At this stage, the Executive Agency, which is no longer the Managing Authority, is obliged to implement financial corrections and to do everything possible to implement them through the court. You do realize that it's a bit of a wishful thinking, because in the end, the Agency has done its job, but the implementation of the contracts depends on the beneficiaries, and they are the ones who should implement these contracts as they are scheduled. I cannot accept that with the changes we are going to solve something in the sector and, as I understand it, this 7 million. lv. financial corrections concerning, in particular, private measures 2.1 and 2.6, at least as far as the Commission on Agriculture has discussed this issue and additional information is given, will be returned and accordingly awarded to be implemented and paid by private beneficiaries. The Treaties with Law are implemented and an opportunity must be sought from now on to avoid such errors. Rather, the Law should have been in the direction: five years of monitoring period, five years of evaluation and analysis of the business plan, so that the problems could be resolved in their entirety and not 2007 - 2013 as proposed. The analogy with the Rural Development Programme is a bit distant, because the changes were the result of a rejected non-constant methodology. We don't have a case here, and we have a case here that probably someone might remember appealing the rules or being attacked in court. This is about private projects and private implementations that have financial corrections. We will abstain with regard to this bill because we believe that there is no need to make these changes and set precedents, provided that they are ultimately a process that, with final changes in the Law, cannot be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u66	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. A line? Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professor Bachvarova, I fully agree with everything you've said. There have been monstrous abuses under this program. I'll give an example with two companies - one is from Lom, the other is from Vratsa, where, notice, they were three dams, for cleaning one dam were used 8 million each. lv. But that doesn't change what I said about the purely legal case, because in this way we will even facilitate, in the literal sense of the word, the abusers. They will appeal precisely the legal part of what we are going to vote on. And as far as embezzlement is concerned, excuse me, colleagues, but there is a business police department, a prosecutor's office, a number of controlling bodies, and let the intruders go where they belong. But I repeat, as a lawyer: once again, we will vote on legal absurdity, that is to say, with a reverse date, we will change existing public relations. Maybe you figured it out, which is really absurd in any... Since Roman times, this has been a fundamental principle, and otherwise the stability of public relations has been disrupted. In this way, we will now give the opportunity to these abuses that have been done, they will be taken purely by the legal issue and will push us into the court, I guarantee, and will win the cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Are there any other lines? I won't. For the coat, Professor Bachvarova, will you take the opportunity? Here you go. You got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The fact is that financial corrections have been imposed, it is a fact that in most of the projects the financial corrections imposed are in a monitoring period. There are one or two projects that are outside this period, but ultimately the appeal is in court. The Court must decide, according to the contracts concluded, whether these financial corrections are necessary and must be made or not. What we are changing is not going to solve the case in any way in court, because we have no dispute here with the rules and methodology. Here we have a dispute over the contracts that have been concluded in this period and these contracts say: "Ten years is the period in which the project is to be implemented, even though after 2015 we also have a Law that says that the indicators of the business plan should be looked at. After all, the change in the Law will not result in greater collection and financial corrections being at the expense of the beneficiaries. This is what we want to explain and should not have such texts and such bills, especially for a past period, without being discussed in detail without having sufficient information about them. Information was provided in the Commission and I was trying to record, excuse me, but with so many numbers and so many cases, it is very difficult to understand whether only private measures are a problem. These are things that require time and which require a little more in-depth expertise in order to be able to be resolved precisely in the direction of those who have broken and failed to implement their projects to pay for what they have caused to the Programme and have incurred losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u70	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. Are there any other statements? Let's alternate groups. Mr. Ivanov, I note that you are willing to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I apologize to my colleague because he had raised his hand earlier. Colleagues, from this tribune at 9:35 pm, the chairman of the GERB parliamentary group said that laws should not be introduced that contradict the law and at all the legal structure that exists in the state. And there's not only.. I don't know how much, maybe not 40 minutes, you see that there is a Law and a change in the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, which tends to destroy more than 12 companies in the industry. This was downloaded as a bill on the fast track. On Monday afternoon, the members of the Commission received a notice that there will be an extraordinary committee on Tuesday and colleagues from GERB so tempt this thing to come in and happen by July 22nd because they have made such a commitment. No one in the Commission, honourable Members of the opposition, has briefed us on a report that is here, which I have received directly from the European Commission's Permanent Representation, in which a report for the first time in our country's history after our accession to the European Union, has directly identified the names of companies whose financial correction should be imposed. This is a direct interference in the country's internal affairs, I believe. And, you see, this report is signed by a person of Spanish origin and is one of the largest fish producers in the European Union. In other words, the report points to 12 companies that need to be destroyed in order not to be competition in this market. And now let's get into the details. As Professor Bachvarova said, these changes concern the first programming period under the Fisheries and Aquaculture Programme 2007-2013 and this report, which we are commenting on at the moment and due to the completion of this programme, says: "If you do not punish certain beneficiaries, the money will be taken from the country's budget. But what's happening? These contracts have been concluded mainly in 2010 and 2011. It is true that all the beneficiaries will say it directly, who have stolen money and have no working companies, must recover this subsidy. However, enterprises that have fought both the state and the administration, enterprises that have started at 75 BGN. Megawatt hour electricity, and now they're paying 250 leva. Megawatt hours of electricity and they know how to support their staff, pay their taxes and insurance, we put them on this list because they have about 30% implementation of their production programs, i.e. these enterprises work and give, you see, these enterprises at the moment to put them, as the people say, and destroy them. In the 2010 and 2011 contracts and in general from the first programming period, honourable Members, there are no obligations and requirements for compliance with a business plan. The obligations to comply with the business plan were introduced with the first anexes that the beneficiaries were forced to sign in 2015. I say forced because the beneficiaries wanted an extension of the terms of the contract due to the difficult financing of such projects by the banks because the banking institutions did not believe in the work of this programme and refused funding, and when it came to the fact that the beneficiaries wanted an extension of the terms of the contract, and as a last point in their annexes, compliance with the production programme was replaced. And now let the importers explain to me about the contracts signed in 2010 without having obligations to comply with a production programme and forcedly signed annex 2015: how do they oblige you to comply with a production programme, with the five years of monitoring of the project already expired or a few months remain until the end of the monitoring period? Let them explain to me what they need from the beneficiaries right now. Looking for their bankruptcy, looking to send more young people out and tell you frankly, are you looking to go to the Danish Royal Institute, to the farms in Krakow, the farms in Slovakia?! Is that what you're looking to do, esteemed rulers? Because the young people who work on these farms are ready after they are fired, because these farms will be forced to declare bankruptcy. Because you come back and give the right, with these changes, with a retroactive effect, to impose a financial correction on an already expired treaty that is not in legal peace! That's why I mentioned the speech of the chairman of your group because when the pancake gets rid of you, it's on one side, and when you don't get rid of it, you all stand and vote as one. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any lines? First line to Mr. Apostolov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Apostolov, you and I have had quite a successful interaction on several issues, but in order to determine the form of attitude to what you are saying, I want you to answer and explain to me: when you accuse the government, as we do, which rulers do you mean? Because if you mean only a political party GERB, say it, and if you mean the ruling coalition, you are part of it. When you groan the governors, I ask for an answer and that is my line: which rulers do you mean? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Is there a second line? I can't see. Would you like to use the back, Mr. Apostolov? No. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues! As I see that the discussion began to move on to another plane, I should say: "Welcome to the opposition of the Patriots." How can I understand you? I can't, frankly, everyone in this room is confused, but all the pre-spokesmen are right in one.. Obviously today is another attempt to turn the National Assembly into a repeater in terms of adopting legal norms that harm companies beneficiaries of operational programs. Just to remind you that the amendments to the Agricultural Aid Act were voted on a month ago, where we did the same thing with the Rural Development Programme. Then we talked, we called the minister here, on the stand, to control it, so that you would understand that such legal regulations couldn't be rearranged. Today we are once again trying to sanitize, gentlemen of the government, that is, you are trying to sanitize someone's criminal negligence because this program has already expired. Today you are trying to make an approach at the expense of a government official, a state policy that is led precisely by the political party GERB, because the ministers in this period were extremely dependent on the political party GERB and allowed these outrage to happen. With today's date you are trying to tell him: "Okay, we put a cross on him, the bill will be paid by the Bulgarian citizens. " - You know what the order is, don't you?! For infringements established under a specific operational programme, money shall be taken from the state budget. Now you're trying to fix someone's personal problem and keep this thing at the expense of someone else. That crimes have been committed, violations, that's for sure. The Patriots took this out, but someone just slept through that period. Unfortunately, this thing is not an isolated case. The same thing is currently going with the new Operational Program. We never got a clear explanation as to why the Director of the Managing Authority was fired. There was a sanction for Bulgaria in the amount of 7 million. Euros. Aama, why are they here? Why did the Operational Programme have to be removed from the Executive Agency and transferred to the Ministry? She wasn't walking. Well, she didn't go to the Ministry either, and apparently there's some extremely serious problem, but extremely serious problem. What are we gonna do? Are we putting in a bill next week for the new programming period? We have listened to these representatives. I see that here is the director of the Institute for Fisheries and Aquaculture and can tell what is happening. Why is he getting the sanctions back and someone else is running the Operating Program? You do realize what kind of legal nonsense you're creating right now? This thing should not be put to the vote at all, let alone debate it right now. Do not turn the MPs into repeaters in terms of already expired programs! The same thing happened to these guest houses. You advertised, you searched, you entered them with televisions, you changed the Law with a reverse date. You do know that there is not a normal court in this country that punishes anyone for committing a violation because neither the legislator nor the ministry concerned have done their job?! It's outrageous, it's nonsense! If you have any sense, withdraw this bill today and do not put it to the vote. To address the prosecutor's office, the Ministry to refer to the prosecution for the specific projects so as to seek responsibility and return the money from those beneficiaries who violated the Law. And what do we do about the National Assembly becoming a rubber seal of the crimes of the government?! If you can really express here, are you in charge today, or are you not in charge, patriot gentlemen, so that we know how to proceed from now on?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, with great respect to you, however, I will replicate you. Yes, we are in the ruling majority, but when it comes to a clear injustice when it comes to the destruction of 12 Bulgarian fish farming companies, it does not matter whether we are in a ruling coalition or in opposition. This is about restoring justice. After all, our parliamentary group will vote strongly against this bill. Once again I say to you, although I may have already been a third: let us not make the National Assembly a laughing stock and cause for jokes in legal circles after what we are going to vote on. We will be the laughing stock of the entire legal world in Bulgaria! We're going to vote on something that's ridiculously purely legal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Atanasov, it may have been important, but you failed to determine your tolerance threshold. It is obviously too big, or you do not know what form you are in right now in coalition or are you not because the injustices imposed here against Bulgarian citizens are daily. I don't want to get into examples, or I might get in, and you've taken away the opposition's grant and you're going to suffer from it. That seems to be some kind of tolerance again. It is now clear that EU funds are being stolen, not absorbed and we will have sanctions from the European Commission. GERB is the main driver of this and you support them. Well, break up this coalition at last. Say, "Stop machine!" And let's get it over with. It doesn't make any sense. Otherwise, we are only going to be drawing up such bills here to justify people who have committed thefts. That is the truth. That's what we're gonna do today. If this bill passes, it means that we will allow those who have stolen to come out of the water dry. It's the truth! So really define what your threshold of patience is, are you in this coalition or are you not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Georgiev asked for the floor. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, such a debate has also taken place in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. I will not speak on this legal absurdity, as they have spoken enough before me. The Director of the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency is here. Several times we have made comments to him in the Committee on Agriculture and Food that we have no financial justification, we have no data, and suddenly we are starting to make some proposals. This time he came up with the arguments that he was prepared, only that he was prepared during the commission itself. In this regard, I said in the Commission and I will read to you the preliminary impact assessment. Listen to what it is about, there is no financial justification in it, but in the interested groups it says that these are the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Now listen carefully: the number of grant beneficiaries requested cannot be determined because of the dynamic character of the beneficiary circle and the monitoring period. Excuse me, colleagues, but the period is long gone, they know how many contracts there are. How can the circle of beneficiaries not be defined because of the dynamic character?! What dynamic character when the period has expired and how many contracts have been concluded?! This is, in my opinion, a copy-past, which means we're unprepared in the preliminary assessment, so there's no way this absurdity can be accepted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Abase, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Unlike the talkers, I can safely address the government. Unlike Mr. Yordan Apostolov, I can say: Gentlemen in charge, you do nothing differently. You are making another move typical of the government: to run after events; to offer the laws unprepared, unwarranted neither legally nor financially nor administratively. As a result, the noble goal in quotes that you are pursuing is likely not to come true, but rather we will cause even greater chaos. Under the good excuse to give the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture the opportunity to collect most of the financial corrections, we are actually giving him over-arguments, over-responsibilitys, which I personally do not know if he is capable of fulfilling. The bill was submitted in a hurry, unprepared, written on the knee of today for tomorrow. I don't know what the rush is. There's not a single prerequisite to rush so much, we don't have any deadlines to catch up with. With this proposal, gentlemen in charge, you are not having any effect on collecting financial corrections because, firstly, such an instrument is now in the hands of the Executive Director. He is now also able to collect the financial corrections that are being imposed. With what we are proposing now, we will actually make just one more addition to the legal basis when financial corrections are imposed. What are we going to achieve differently from the legal basis of a member of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act, and now we are going to write a legal basis for a member of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act? And what's different from that? An analogy should not be made with the Rural Development Programme, because we have a number of cases on it that the court does not deal with in substance, not in the details, but on a formal basis, on a legal basis simply cancels the decisions of the Executive Director of the It's not like that here. We don't have cases like this here yet. I take that as kind of a run in front of the wind or a reinsurance. When we offer texts that apply retroactively, colleagues, it is a very risky move. Today "2019, we propose, we give a mechanism, a tool in the hands of the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture to work with beneficiaries and projects from the period 2007 - 2013. I'm sorry, but that's what they say in their mother tongue: [[Elevator bell dings]] Because the beneficiary Hicks, who has implemented some project and has a five-year monitoring, on the fourth year and eight months of this monitoring, which is three months before it expires, we're assigning him something that he didn't sign in the first major contract. This is a production plan that is not at stake in the main contract. You can't work for four years and eight months under one rule and two months before the end of monitoring, you're given other rules. Of course, then it's your fault. Unlike the Rural Development Programme, where there are many beneficiaries and there is no bias, my concerns are that there will be very large subjectivism here. This measure, which we are adopting now and the commitments that we are making to the Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, would, in my opinion, rather be subjective, selective, understand in what sense. This will in no way lead to the absorption of more funds from the European Fisheries Fund, will in no way lead to the development of our fisheries sector, in no way will it raise the absorption rate under this programme. One thing I'm sure is that the problem will not be solved. We will not have more collection of financial corrections with this proposal, but I am sure we will have much more cases in court than our beneficiaries who have used the programme. If that's the goal, you should be safe and sound! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. I would only ask you for the future to avoid colorful expressions that are not typical of the plenary. Any lines to Mr. Abase? Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will not use a colorful language, even though it was very correct, but I will say another line: after rain, a hoodie. These rules and regulations should have been introduced when the contracts were signed. That is to say, the Agency had the right to make such financial corrections in failure to comply with the business plan, to have the possibility and rights to sanction beneficiaries, to have been clarified by a clear and accurate methodology, if you do not comply with a percentage of the business plan, you will be sanctioned by a few, as is included in the Rural Development Programme, where, although there were no penalties during the first period, in the second and further, a minimum requirement to comply with the business plan of 50% was introduced. This game isn't here. If we have to continue with the topic of the match, what is currently being proposed is that we change the rules in the match itself when the game is over and before the results are announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u86	The essence of the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u87	To my colleagues from BSP I would like to say, honourable Mr. President, whether we are together with GERB or not, I will give a simple answer: yes, we are together with our colleagues from GERB and we are their corrective when submitting such proposals that are contrary to legal norms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Another line? Is there a second line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Kolev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With this law, we set a bad example for all our conscientious farmers and not only. We have clear contracts, repeatedly checked, which have imposed penalty over time and over the years. If we now accept to sanction these farmers with a retroactive date for non-written explicit clauses and requirements in their contracts, we will set a precedent for everyone. Imagine unwritten clauses and requirements for those who have acquired agricultural equipment, combine, rear-ended tractors, to be sanctioned for not reaping more areas; with a back-up date for not plowing more areas; with a back-up date for sanctioning those who have grain warehouses for things that are not recorded in their contracts that have not filled their grain bases with a sufficient amount of grain...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u90	Mr. Kolev, excuse me. You're running out of regular time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u91	So if we pass this law, we'll create a very bad practice. The better option right now is to think about how to do so that we stimulate our producers and not vice versa. If Bulgaria now pays this 7 million for fisheries and aquaculture and does not collect them from those who have gone bankrupt, we will sanction those who have survived...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u92	Would you like me to extend the time?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u93	...not the ones their business has already gone to. Please consider not creating bad practice and setting a good example for our farmers, not vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u94	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone else who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. Deputy Minister Vasileva, come in. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me clearly state that the provisions presented in the proposed amendment to the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture are in no way contrary to law. There's no legal absurdity. On the contrary, these provisions will not have retroactive effect. They will act in the future and only for projects which are in the process of monitoring, that is, there will be no retroactive imposition of financial corrections and this is visible from the texts proposed. At the moment, I can say that there are 247 contracts in the process of monitoring. As mentioned in the speeches, for the previous programming period in 2007 and 2013 the monitoring period is five years from the date of signature of the contracts. The last contracts concluded under the previous programming period, under the old programme, were signed in 2015 and therefore we still have over 200, as I mentioned at the time. Here, during the proposed amendments, it is intended to reaffirm the power of the Executive Director to issue enforcement decisions [[noise]] financial corrections due to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u96	Colleagues, please! What is said at the moment is important for the substance of the proposed bill. Please be quiet! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u97	That is, what we propose is to confirm the power of the Executive Director to issue these financial corrections and to confirm the responsibility for the recovery of these financial corrections. I do not agree that with these texts we will lead to bankruptcy or destruction of the industry. On the contrary, we will lead to greater collection by the offenders, by those who have irregularities in the programme that have been identified, and the aim is to collect these irregularities. We are not talking about financial corrections with a reverse date..................................................................................................... Regarding the report that Mr. Apostolov mentioned, yes, these are standard procedures. We are receiving reports from the European Commission. We have a report sent that concerns the completion of the programme. And like all reports, there are always lists of beneficiaries which, as a result of the checks by the European Commission, have detected irregularities. Those beneficiaries, which he spoke of, are beneficiaries, which the Managing Authority, the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency, has confirmed that there are irregularities. This report and the European Commission confirm irregularities. Rather, the recommendation is to impose a higher penalty rate, but not that there is no irregularity. That's what I might have mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Please invite the Quaestors to enter the Chamber. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 954-01-47, tabled by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs. They voted 176 MPs: 86, against 72, abstention 18. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the floor, dear Mrs. Bellova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-vote. The coworker got in at the last minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u100	I get it. I will re-vote the bill under consideration. Vote 178 MPs: 89, against 73, abstention 16. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted negative for two reasons. First, the speed at which the bill was presented. And, secondly, about the content that was made absurd to me. That is why I voted negatively.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE LEARNING OF ALL DATA, FACTS AND ASSISTANCES IN THE EUROPEAN AND BULGARIAN MEDIA TROUBLE FOR THE SCANDAL UNDERSTANDING FOR THE ACQUISITION OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY. Dear Mr. Tsonev, would you like to present the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose an extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens for three months. Of course, the motive is that we're not done working. The European elections and the campaign have upset the rhythm of the work, and there is a very large amount of work to be done. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. It is done after careful analysis of the entire Commission of what we need to do and the objectives that we have set in relation to Parliament's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, I give the floor for speeches. I can't see. I'll read you the draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign nationals The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It extends the period of extension of the Temporary Committee for the Study of All Data, Facts and Circumstances on the occasion of the allegations of the scandalous bribery scheme in the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by foreign citizens for three months. Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PERSONAL DOCUMENTS. You have the floor of procedure, dear Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u105	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to yesterday's bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 954-01-46, I am making a procedure for the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes to be reduced to 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 95 MPs: 77 against 16, abstention 2. The offer is accepted. Dear Mr. Nunev, please present to us the Internal Security and Public Order Committee Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u107	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I will make a proposal for admission in the hall of Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Tsvetomir Panchev, Head of the Department of Legal Services and Measures for Administrative Force, Directorate of the Bulgarian Identity Documents, and Petar Toshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u108	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Tzipov and everyone with access to the hall to enter. Please continue, dear Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u109	On 6 June 2019, on the first voting draft Law amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 954-01-10, submitted by the National Representative Andon Donchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 February 2019, Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2019, and Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 902-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2019, drawn up on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's a joint project! The Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents was amended and supplemented by the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), In the ID card other than the data under para. 1 shall also contain biometric data of the person as well as other data, as recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) DOC 9303
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u110	Let's stop here, dear Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches, colleagues? I put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer on the name of the Law, and the second is the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text, according to the Commission Report. Vote 77 MPs: 76 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u111	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the A Bulgarian personal document may be obtained in person by using a licensed postal or courier service provider when the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the application for the issue of a Bulgarian personal document is submitted in person at diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad, which offers this service; 2. an address for receipt of the new document in the territory of a country in which the Republic of Bulgaria has diplomatic or consular representation or has no diplomatic or consular representation is indicated upon submission of the application, but has diplomatic relations and has appointed an accredited ambassador; 3. the costs of sending the new document from the respective diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad to the requested address, as well as the return to the diplomatic or consular representation of a signed document for its receipt were paid upon submission of the application. (8) The persons to whom the Bulgarian personal documents are issued may not claim compensation for damages by the public authorities competent for the issuance and service which occurred as a result of the loss or damage of the Bulgarian personal document if the loss or damage to it occurred after its transmission to a licensed provider of a postal or courier service for receipt under para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u112	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1, which shall become § 2. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u113	Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following 1. In para. 7 t. Two and three are canceled. 2. In para. 8. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "passport" and "passport" are deleted; (b) point 2 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u114	Are there any speeches? I put two texts to the vote. The first is the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with a text according to the Commission Report and the second.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Vote 100 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u115	Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 5, 6 and 7: .................................................................................. Article 18c is repealed. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20a the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 4. (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." in a separate protective segment of the electronic carrier 20, para. 2, the biometric data of the person and other data as recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) DOC 9303; (b) points 3 and 4 are repealed. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The electronic carrier of information in the residence documents under art. 59, para. 2, 3 and 4 shall also contain an electronic identity certificate and corresponding cryptographic keys in the cases referred to in art. 18, para. 8..................................................... 3. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 1... 3 and para. 4 t. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 4 words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Are there any speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the proposed proposal, our parliamentary group will abstain for several reasons. First of all, this discussion whether to give the so-called electronic identification in the passport and ID cards, we had it back in 2016. Then the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova submitted a bill which was adopted and now you are canceling the texts she submitted then to be introduced without particular necessity, without the necessity of such requirements for the Bulgarian personal documents. Then we objected to such an introduction of such a requirement because we are not ready and there is a chance that the issue of personal documents will be expensive. At least in this regard, the parliamentary group of BSP is consistent and maintains a thesis that this thing is inconclusive and unnecessary. Now it turns out that there is a European regulation that already says that this thing is unnecessary. The position of the Ministry of Interior in this direction appears to be changing for one reason or another. For this reason we will refrain from supporting these texts because you cannot once want to introduce such a requirement for personal documents, and then say: no, go ahead, we will remove them. This should be a signal to the Ministry in the future not to propose such amendments without considering them without being cross-referenced and relevant to European requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I'll give you my word, Mr. Deputy Minister. If there are no lines, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! Yesterday at the meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, I said what the motives of the Ministry of Interior were. I would like to repeat them in plenary, so that all Members of the National Assembly can understand them. The proposal by 2016 was prepared in this way, because it was discussed a regulation on increasing the security of personal documents, travel documents, residence documents. At present, this Regulation has already been a fact.. it entered into force in the beginning of June this year, and therefore we propose this amendment, this change in the texts regarding passport and electronic identification. This must be made clear to all Members of the National Assembly. By the end of 2016, this Regulation was not a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u120	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 with a text according to the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 3, which becomes § 8. They voted 106 MPs: 91, none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u121	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 3 the words of the qualified electronic signature certificate shall be deleted. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The personal cards shall be issued in the case of a simple service within 30 days, in the case of a fast service within 3 working days, and in the case of an express service within 8 working hours from the acceptance of the application. 2. In para. 5 words up to 90 days are replaced by a simple service is up to 45 days and with a fast service up to 30 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u122	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with a text under the Report, and the second is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 4 by importer, which becomes § 10. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u123	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 11. Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 12 and 13: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 para. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 para. 4 is Option I.............................................................................................. Option II - § 6. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 para. 1 is amended as The Bulgarian citizens' passports shall be issued with a period of validity of 5 or 10 years according to the period requested by the person. Passports with a period of validity of 5 years shall be issued to persons up to the age of 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u124	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 11; the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs 12 and 13 with a text, respectively, according to the Commission Report and the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 6, which shall become § 14. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u125	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 15. Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: With the application for a passport with a period of validity of 10 years, the person may at the same time request an identity card. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u126	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 15, supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create § 16 by text in accordance with the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 17. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u127	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of a simple service within 30 days, in the case of a fast service within 3 working days, and in the case of an express service within 8 working hours from acceptance of the application. 2. In para. 2 the words "up to 90 days' shall be replaced by a simple service up to 45 days and in case of a fast service up to 30 days. Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1 is finally added to a simple service within 30 days, and in the case of a fast service up to 10 working days
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9 by importer, which shall become § 18; a proposal by the Commission to create a new § 19 with a text according to the Commission Report and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 10 by importer, which shall become § 20. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u129	Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 para. 10 is The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 4 shall be submitted after the words supplied within 14 days of the registration of the request or submission of the application. Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 23: ..................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. In § 21 of the transitional and concluding provisions, the words 2 (a.k.a.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u130	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the Commission proposal to create a new § 21 with a text according to the Commission Report; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 11 by importer, which becomes § 22 and the Commission proposal to create a new § 23 by text by the Commission Report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u131	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the division be amended as follows: The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u132	Statements? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote, the first is the Commission's proposal to change the name of the division, and the second is the Commission's proposal to reject § 12 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. I'm announcing a 30-minute recess at work. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u133	Dear Mr. Nunev, please proceed with the editing of § 13 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u134	According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 7 after the words "temporary obstructions' the state border surveillance systems are added, and after the words "Performance obstructions' the state border surveillance systems is added. (b) in para. 8 after the word "Archives" shall be added to the "systems" and the word "im" shall be replaced by the "temporary obstructions" of the facilities. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 para. 5 is amended as follows: The positive opinions under para. 1, t. 9, certificates and other documents under para. 1, t. 10 shall enter into force on the day of their issue. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 125a: Art. 125a. (1) In the exercise of the powers under art. 125, para. 1, t. 9 and 10 fire safety and population protection authorities carrying out state fire control shall, at the request of interested parties, issue: 1. opinions on compliance of investment projects with fire safety rules and regulations; 2. opinions on compliance of constructions with fire safety rules and regulations in relation to their entry into service; 3. opinions on compliance with the rules and regulations for fire safety of objects, installations and facilities and other documents, where provided for in a regulatory act; 4. Certificates of compliance of objects with fire safety rules and regulations. (2) The documents under para. 1 shall be issued after submission of a request by a person concerned or authorised by him with attached documents as defined in the ordinance under art. 17, para. 4 in connection with para. 2, p. 2. The request shall contain the information referred to in art. 29, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) When the request under para. The applicant shall be informed, within three days of the notification thereof, that their suspension will result in termination of production. The communication shall specify the requirements of the regulatory act for which the authority has identified irregularities. The time limit for the decision on the request shall start from the date of removal of irregularities. (4) In the event of suspension of irregularities under para. 3 The proceedings shall be terminated by a decision of the official authorised by the Minister of Interior for the issue of the relevant document under para. 1 which is reported in the order of para. 13 and not subject to appeal. (5) For the suspension of the proceedings of the issue of documents under para. Article 1 shall apply. 54 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision to stop shall be notified in accordance with para. 13 and not subject to appeal. (6) Where the verification of the substance of compliance with fire safety rules and regulations reveals a lack of evidence of facts or circumstances relevant to the production, the applicant shall be required to provide the necessary evidence and evidence and shall set a time limit for their submission which shall not be shorter than 3 days and longer than 14 days. (7) For the issue of a certificate under para. 1, t. 4 fire safety and population protection authorities carrying out state fire control shall carry out an inspection and draw up a protocol. (8) In the opinion referred to in para. 1, t. 3 and in the minutes under para. The conformity of the site shall be established with: 1. construction and technical regulations and fire safety standards applicable to the establishment, installation or facility, depending on the date of its entry into service; it shall be permitted, at the request of the applicant, to establish the compliance of the establishment, installation or facility with the rules in force at the time of the submission of the request for a certificate of construction technical regulations and fire safety standards; 2. the rules and regulations for fire safety in operation of the premises, installations or facilities operating at the time of the inspection. (9) The period of validity of a certificate under para. 1, t. Four is five years. Where modifications to the conditions under which the certificate has been issued leading to non-compliance with the requirements of the fire safety rules and regulations, the certificate shall be terminated by decision of the authority which issued it, notified to the holder of the certificate and the persons concerned. The decision shall be communicated in the order of para. 13 and can be challenged in the order of para. 15. (10) In the event of compliance with the rules and regulations of fire safety, the documents referred to in para. 1 shall be issued by officials authorised by the Minister of Interior. (11) In the event of non-compliance with fire safety rules and regulations, the authorised officials shall issue a decision refusing to issue a document under para. 1 describing discrepancies with fire safety rules and regulations. (12) The documents under para. 1 and the decisions for refusal under para. 11 shall be issued within 14 days from the date of initiation of the proceedings, from the removal of irregularities respectively, and in the cases referred to in para. Within 14 days of the date of submission of the necessary evidence and evidence or the expiry date of the time limit for their submission. (13) The documents under para. 1 and the decisions for refusal under para. 11 shall be communicated to the interested parties within three days of their issuance, to which Article applies. 61 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (14) For outstanding issues concerning the issue of the documents under para. 1 and decisions for refusal under para. The provisions of Section I of Chapter 5 of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply accordingly. (15) Decisions for refusal under para. 11 may be challenged administratively before the administrative authority referred to directly under the above administrative authority, to which the provisions of Chapter 6 of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply, with the exception of art. 88, para. Art. 3, Art. 90, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Reg. 91, para. Art. 2, Art. 93, para. Article 5 (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). 97, para. Art. 5 and art. 98, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The challenge shall not stop the execution unless the above administrative authority so orders otherwise. (16) In the event of an administrative dispute and a review of a decision to refuse under para. 11 The decision to amend may be challenged in accordance with para. 15. In such cases, no re-examination shall be allowed. (17) In the event of an administrative dispute, the decision of the directly above administrative authority shall not be contested. (18) To supplement, correct an obvious factual error and interpret a document under para. 1 and a decision to refuse under para. Article 11 shall apply. 62 of the Administrative Procedure Code. Refusal of a decision to supplement/repair/repairing act may be challenged in accordance with para. 15. (19) Document under para. 1 and a decision to refuse under para. 11 may be repealed or amended by the directly above administrative authority and the proceedings may be resumed on the grounds referred to in art. 99 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The order for the reopening of proceedings shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 7 of the Administrative Procedure Code, with the exception of art. 103, para. Art. 3, Art. 104 and 106 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the directly above administrative body shall be notified in accordance with para. 13 and can be challenged in the order of para. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u135	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13 by importer, which shall become § 24. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u136	Proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 25, 26 and 27: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 27, para. 1 t. Six is canceled. § 26. In the Law on Electronic Identification (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 22, para. 2, p. 5 words................................................................................. 49, para. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. § 27. In the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112 (prom., SG No. ...) in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 the word "three" is replaced by "five." Proposal of the National Representative Manoil Manev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 24c is created para. 9. "Acceptance under para. 1 without having to own a visa under art. 15, para. 1 can also receive foreigners of Bulgarian origin who are accepted as students in regular form of education at a higher school in the Republic of Bulgaria and present a document of Bulgarian origin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u137	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put the two texts to the vote: the first is a Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 with a text under the Commission Report and the Commission proposal to create a new § 28 with a text under the Commission Report. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u138	Under Paragraph 14, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... The Ministry of Interior shall establish organisational conditions and provide the necessary technical and programming means for issuing passports with a period of validity of 10 years under art. 36, para. 1, not later than 1 January 2021 According to § 15 there is a proposal of the MP Plamen Nunev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 30: 30. Paragraphs 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 16, 19, 21, 25 and 26 shall enter into force from 1 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u139	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 14 by importer which becomes § 29 and the second is the version proposed by the Commission for § 15 by importer which becomes § 30. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been adopted and the bill has thus been adopted in a second vote. Thank you, dear Mr. Nunev. Colleagues, we are continuing to work with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MATERIAL AND THE MATERIAL. Here you are, dear Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for Mrs. Bistra Pavlovska, Executive Director of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u141	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 98 MPs: 97 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u142	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, No 902-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2019, adopted at the first vote on 27 June 2019. "Repair for amendment and supplement of the Law on Crops and Feeding Material. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In The provisions of this Law shall not apply to seed and seed material intended for export to third countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u143	Statements? There are no speeches. I'll put two texts to the vote. The first is the text of the importer on the name of the Law and the second is the creation of a new § 1 with text, according to the Report of the importer. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u144	Under § 1, a proposal was made by the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 the word (s) or (s) shall be replaced by the word (s) or the word (s) being replaced by the word (s). 2. They're creating an al. 20 and 21: When at the control official Polish inspection under para. 17 non-compliances admitted to the inspector's fault which do not permit the continued certification of the seed shall be identified, the authorisation under para. 1 is taken away. (21) After the withdrawal of the authorisation under the conditions of para. 20, the person may apply for a new authorisation under para. 1.. 12.... 12............................................................................. Under § 2 there is a proposal made by the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is Where discrepancies and/or incompletes are identified in the information submitted in the application, the applicant shall be informed thereof and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u145	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 1 by importer, which becomes § 2, second text by the version proposed by the Commission, for § 2 by importer, which becomes § 3. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u146	Under § 3 there is a proposal made by the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following 1. In para. 1 the words "General catalogue of varieties of agricultural plant species or General catalog of varieties of wine-growing crops' shall be deleted and the words "scented and fruity' shall be replaced by "scented'. 2. In para. 3 and 4 the words "Member State" shall be replaced by "Member State." 3. In para. The 9th sentence shall first be published and replaced by the second sentence shall be deleted. Under § 4, a proposal was made by the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following 1. In para. 2 the words "tütin and fruit plants' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 2. In para. 3, p. 2 after the words "vegetative crops', the species of fruit shall be added. 3. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: For the entry of the variety in the official varietal list for the following year, the applicant shall submit an application in a template approved by the Executive Director of ISAAS and shall pay a price per volume. 22, para. 2. The application shall be submitted annually by 20 December of the current calendar year in person, by proxy, electronically under the terms and conditions of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (8) Where discrepancies and/or incompletes are identified in the information submitted in the application, the applicant shall be informed thereof and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u147	Are there any speeches? I'll put two texts to the vote. The first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 3 by importer, which becomes § 4, and the second is the version proposed by the Commission, for the text of § 4 by importer, which becomes § 5. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. Under § 6 there is a proposal made by the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is finally added to the European Plant Variety Office national offices of Member States of the European Union. 2. A new para is being created. 13th para. 14: For the issue of an authorisation under para. 3 or a certificate under para. 8 persons shall submit an application to ISAAS on a model approved by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, respectively, by the Executive Director of the Agency. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (14) Where discrepancies and/or incompletes are identified in the information provided in the application, the applicant shall be informed thereof and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days. 3. So far, the Al. 13 becomes para. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u149	Are there any speeches? I put two texts to the vote. The first text is an importer for § 5, which becomes § 6, the second text which the Commission proposes for the text of § 6 by importer, which becomes § 7. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u150	Under § 7, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The application shall be made after an application has been submitted in accordance with a model approved by the Executive Director of ISAAS and on the basis of a contract concluded between the applicant for variety testing and the Agency. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. 2. The creation of para. 4. Where discrepancies and/or incompletes are identified in the information submitted in the application, the applicant shall be informed thereof and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, para. 2 after the words "al." The following information shall be reported and reported:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u151	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 7 by importer, which becomes § 8; the second is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 8 by importer, which becomes § 9; and the third is the creation of a new § 10 by proposal from the Commission by text according to the Commission Report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u152	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become §11: ..................................................... Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. (1) For a Polish test of differenceability, homogeneousness and stability, as well as for biological and economic qualities, fees shall be paid in the amount determined by the tariff under art. 6, para. 7. (2) The Executive Agency shall perform activities and services of natural and legal persons according to a price signature established by the Executive Director, which shall be published on the Agency's website. (3) A price shall be paid for the variety of differences, homogeneousness and stability carried out in national offices of Member States of the European Union, as well as for carrying out technological quality analyses. 2. Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6 and 7: For registration under para. 4 persons applying for a model approved by the Executive Director of the Agency in ISAAS. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (7) Where discrepancies and/or incompletes are identified in the information provided in the application, the applicant shall be informed thereof and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal which shall not be less than 10 working days. 2. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u153	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 9 by importer, which becomes § 11; the second is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 10 by importer, which becomes § 12. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u154	Under § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. The 5th sentence is amended as follows: A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 14 and 15: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing § 15. The name of Chapter 7 shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u155	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 11 by importer, which becomes § 13; and the second is the Commission proposal to create two new paragraphs 14 and 15 with a text according to the Commission Report. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u156	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the European Commission's equivalence decisions and a comma shall be added to the requirements. 2. In para. 2 after the words have to be........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The commercial seeds imported must be accompanied by an ISTA orange international batch certificate, with the exception of the commercial seeds of ornamental plants imported by a company document. 4. In para. 4 words are accompanied by a quality document issued by an official certification and/or control body of the exporting country. 5. In para. The first sentence is deleted and in the second sentence, the words "OOECD document" shall be replaced by "OSR certificate and label," as well as by ISTA an orange international batch certificate. Under § 13, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the European Commission's equivalence decisions shall be added after the 2. In para. 4 after the word "non-compliance' the requirements of the equivalence decisions of the European Commission and/or the European Commission shall be added. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: For checking the conformity of the seeds with the documents referred to in art. 57 ISAAS takes samples and performs laboratory analysis of the imported seeds. 4. In para. 6 words and grunt control under para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the 5. In para. 8 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 6. In para. 9 the words s/or grunts control shall be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u157	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12 by importer, which becomes § 16; the second is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13 by importer, which becomes § 17. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u158	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 "7" is canceled. 2. In para. 8 the words "International ISTA" shall be replaced by "ISTA Orange International Partition" and everywhere the abbreviation "OECD" shall be replaced by "OICR." Under § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words that produce, cook and/or use shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the word "books" is replaced by "books."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u159	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14 by importer, which becomes § 18; the second is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 15 by importer, which becomes § 19. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u160	A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 20: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 17 abbreviations "OEOCD' is replaced by "OSR'. 2. They're creating a t. 20 and 21: It's 20. "Sita Orange International Partition Certificate" is a certificate for lots of seeds issued by the ISTA family laboratories. 21. "Grunt control' is a Polish method for the establishment of varietal purity and varietal authenticity of lots of seeds. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-11.u161	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote three texts: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20 with a text according to the Commission Report; the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and the importer's text for § 16, which becomes § 21. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Colleagues, that's how the bill was passed. Parliamentary control announcements on 12 July 2019, Friday: 1. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Stefan Burgeev. 2. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer ten questions from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov, Lyubomir Bonev, Georgi Yordanov, Kolyo Milev, Alexander Nenkov and Alexander Ivanov. 3. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer three questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Nikolay Tishev. 4. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer four questions from the MPs Violeta Jeleva, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Nadya Klisurska and Georgi Stoilov two questions. 5. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Milen Mihov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 6. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to a question with a written answer of the MP Andon Donchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on four questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova. Two questions; Vasil Antonov and Rumen Georgiev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on three issues from the MPs Milen Mihov, Daniel Yordanov, Krasimir Yankov and Pavel Shopov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Nikolay Tsonkov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov are postponed; to one question from the National Representative Sevim Ali to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; one question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. Due to the use of paid annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The next regular plenary session shall be on 12 July 2019 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned.
