ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I offer to your attention a Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period from 6 to 8 March 2019: Proposal from the political party GERB's parliamentary group: first item.. a new discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 35 of 23 February 2019 of the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. No proposals have been received from the parliamentary groups of BSP for Bulgaria. Proposal from the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Movement for Rights and Freedoms: second point.. Draft of a decision on the increase of neo-fascist events in Europe and Bulgaria. Importers: Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs on 30 January 2019 There is no proposal from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics. These were the proposals under art. 53, para. 8. We continue with the agenda: "3." New discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 35 of 23 February 2019 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. Second vote on the Social Services Bill. Importer: Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018. Adopted at first vote on 18 January 2019. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Structure of the Area "General project prepared by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 13 June 2018 with importers: the Council of Ministers, 22 January 2018; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 15 February 2018; Petya Avramova, Alexander Nenkov and Zapreyan Jankov on 5 April 2018; Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018; Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importers: Ivan Valkov, Desislava Taneva, Andrian Raykov and Stanislava Stoyanova on 25 January 2019. Adopted at first vote on 8 February 2019. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. Importer: Council of Ministers on 27 February 2019 Point 1 for Thursday, 7 March 2017 8. Draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2019)). Importer: Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds on 27 February 2019 9. Hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly concerning the Diplomatic Service of the Republic of Bulgaria in the context of the country's foreign policy priorities. Importers: Gemma Grozdanova and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019 Colleagues, here on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, we will put as a point. 10 The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions, which will be t. 1 for Friday 8 March 2019 "11." Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a sub-government "Bankov supervision" of the Bulgarian National Bank, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate in the Committee on Budget and Finance and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer: Budget and Finance Committee, item two for Friday, 8 March 2019 12. Hearing of the Minister of Environment and Water on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the progress in improving the quality of the air in Bulgaria. Importers: Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019 Colleagues, this point is not fixed. "13." Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I will introduce you to the draft laws and decisions for the period 26 February " 5 March 2019: Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Importers: Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers: Anton Donchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importers: Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer: People's Representative Danail Kirilov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Bill amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It's assigned to the Defense Committee. Draft decision for privatization of parts of the property of Vazovski Machine-building plants..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Message: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria has notified the National Assembly: 1. During the period from 5 March to 19 October 2019 will be held a joint Bulgarian-American preparation in the area of a joint Bulgarian-American facility training polygon. In the joint preparation will take part formations of the United States Armed Forces in a group of soldiers with the necessary equipment, state weapons and military supplies, infantry fighting machines, military aircraft, self-propelled mortars, transport auxiliary and repair equipment. 2. For the period from 11 to 22 March 2019 will be held a joint Bulgarian-American preparation of the area of study polygon in the Republic of Romania. A formation of the land troops of the Republic of Bulgaria will take part in the preparation with a common staff of military personnel with state weapons, equipment and equipment from military formations from the town of Pleven. The preparations are carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2019 and are not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, to another country or organisation of armed forces. The notifications were received with input No 903 09 8 and No 903-09-10 respectively and submitted to the Defence Commission. The National Statistical Institute received information about the price indexes of a producer on the domestic and international markets in industry for January 2019 and the Stopanska Conjuncture for February 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are continuing with the proposals under art. 53, para. 8 as the first Wednesday of the month. The proposal from the political party GERB's parliamentary group: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to include as the first item on the agenda of the National Assembly for 6 March 2019 a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 35 of 23 February 2019 to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Who will introduce us to the Committee on Legal Affairs Report? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u2	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 35 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 25 February 2019 on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019, and the reasons to the Decree At its meeting held on 5 March 2019 the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 35 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended: by the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Prof. Emilia Drumeva, Secretary of Legal Affairs, and Mr. Plamen Uzunov, Secretary of Legal Affairs and Anti-Corruption; by the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman, Ms. Marinika Cherneva, Vice-President, and Mrs. Tatiana Hinova, Chairman of the Fourth Ward; by Prof. Mihail Konstantinov, Chairman of the Board of Directors. Professor Emilia Drumeva reported to the members of the Commission the President's statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 12 and 14 concerning the expression in polling stations with less than 300 voters, paragraphs 16, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 30, 36, 37 and 38 of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted on 14 February 2019. In its motives, the President states that the changes to the established threshold for validity of preferences are unfounded. It is noted that the threshold of the reference should allow for the relocation of candidates in the lists, arguing that the levelling of this threshold with the value of votes for a term deprives citizens of the possibility of expressing their preferences. The President points out that preferences are an established and recognised way by which proportionate choices can become more personal, albeit within the limits of the supported party list. Next, the advantages of machine voting, recognised in electoral theory and practice, such as reducing the number of null ballots and maintaining the opinion that with the amendments adopted from these advantages, citizens who vote in polling stations with less than 300 voters will be deprived of their right to vote will not be exercised under the same conditions as in the larger sections. It is noted that the requirement for a comprehensive introduction of the machine voting is delayed and that the terms and conditions under which the Central Election Commission will introduce the machine voting phased in the 2019 elections remain unclear. The President objects to the introduction of a restriction on acts which may be the subject of a judicial appeal, assuming that the legislator has not respected the importance of the rights guaranteed by judicial protection. The reasons of the Decree state that the Central Election Commission is a state body and therefore the acts by which it exercises control and methodological guidance on the application of the Code and the related regulations cannot be unreserved. It is noted that instead of indicating the non-viable acts of the Central Election Commission, those acts which are subject to appeal are listed, indicating that this approach is incompatible with the clear constitutional requirement in the Law to indicate the acts excluded from a judicial appeal. The President also disagrees with the introduction of an exception to the rule that the decisions of all electoral committees are adopted by a majority of two thirds of the members present. The introduction of the lower majority would create an opportunity for one or more political forces to increase their influence disproportionately to the ratio between parliamentary parties and coalitions. In conclusion, Ms. Drumeva disagreed with the President on the proposed procedure, the decision of the Regional or Municipal Election Commission, confirmed by a decision of the Central Election Commission, to be subject to appeal before a three-member panel of the Administrative Court at the location of the relevant electoral commission and, where the decision is not confirmed by the Central Election Commission, to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. It is pointed out that some decisions of the Central Election Commission should be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court, while others should be appealed to the administrative courts, assuming that they create conditions for conflicting caselaw. According to the President, this discrepancy is even more serious given the uncertainty whether the decisions of the three-member Chambers of Administrative Courts are definitive or subject to cassation appeal. Mr. Georgi Cholakov and Professor Konstantinov took part in the discussion. Prof. Konstantinov pointed out that in none of the 44 European countries no machine voting has been put in place and only one has a partial machine voting been put in place. He expressed his opinion that the Election Code on the existence of machine voting should be amended at all. Professor Konstantinov also noted his concerns about the duration of the voting process during the election day. In response to expressed opinion by Professor Drumeva Mr. Cholakov pointed out that there is no contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria under point 4 of the veto. He noted that nowhere in the Election Code is foreseen the decisions of the Central Election Commission not to be taken. The President of the Supreme Administrative Court stated that, in accordance with point (c), 5 of the reasons for the veto is respected the basic principle in the administrative law laid down in the provision of art. 98, para. 2 of the APC, which expressly provides that the original administrative act shall be subject to challenge in the event of rejection of the appeal before a superior administrative authority of a dispute before a court. Mr. Cholakov pointed out that according to him the veto is unfounded, as much of the provisions returned are, as appropriate and not under legality. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hamid Hamid, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Daniel Kirilov. National Representative Hamid Hamid stressed that he is against the veto of the President and will support the re-acception of the Election Code and is convinced that the thesis of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is correct, but according to him, many of the constitutional freedoms of the citizens are being violated and gave an example with art. 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the right to use the mother tongue. Mr. Hristian Mitev expressed his opinion in support of the readmission of the Election Code, stressing that whatever the threshold of preferences, they do not violate the rule of law. In conclusion, Mr. Kirilov noted that the legislative initiative on amendments to the Election Code was initiated by correspondence with the Central Election Commission and the Central Election Commission Report on the organisation and the production of elections in 2015 and there was a consensus of the administrative body for lack of readiness for the full introduction of the machine voting. Mr. Kirilov noted that the threshold of preferences is not fixed in any constitutional norm and gave numerous examples of the existence of preferences in the countries of the European Union where there is a high threshold or the price of one term is equal to the quota. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 14 votes for abstention and non-restraint proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019 read more.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Colleagues, I am opening the debate on the return to discuss the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. I note that the time is in accordance with the general rules of the Rules of Procedure. 58. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, dear Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Agreeing with the motive of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria that the right to choose is an expression of freedom of thought and belief and a real form of participation of citizens in political life, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we believe that the Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code does not take into account the real limitations and we hope that they will be attacked before the Constitutional Court. What do we mean? Along with the constitutional rights of freedom of conscience and freedom of thought and belief in art. 37 the basic law in art. 26, para. 1 states that Bulgarian citizens, wherever they are, have the rights and obligations under the Constitution. A huge part of the Bulgarian citizens who are in countries outside the European Union are deprived of electoral rights. These legal texts which deprive Bulgarian citizens of electoral rights are unconstitutional and should be brought into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. We call on the MPs to implement the Constitution so that Bulgarian citizens do not be deprived of their electoral rights, which are fundamental civil and political rights important for the foundations of democracy, in the name of which many of the affected citizens fought the totalitarian regime before 1989. If the National Assembly not only does not guarantee constitutionally binding rights and freedoms but, on the contrary, creates legal obstacles to their exercise, we call on the President of the Republic to fulfil his constitutional obligation and to refer to the Constitutional Court. Europe is increasingly and increasingly talking about the threat to peace, freedom and prosperity, the threat of populism, xenophobia and nationalism. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have long been alarming and insisting on opposing these phenomena because they lead to nothing good and history proves it. Let us not forget that the attempt to exclude large groups of people with the claim to speak on behalf of the people is living demagogy. And as the French security analyst Francois Essburg says, not all demagogues are populism, but all populisms contain a strong element of demagogy. We need to stress again and again hard that the main responsibility for the preservation of peace and democracy lies with the largest party of GERB. The responsibility of GERB is compliance with the Constitution of the country, the implementation of international treaties, the acts of the European Council, the recommendations of PACE and the Venice Commission. All of this is an object not only of observation, but also a criterion for assessing democracy in Bulgaria. At the beginning of this year, the research unit of the media group "Economist" concluded in its 2018 report that the quality of democracy in Bulgaria remains almost unchanged and is currently at the level of 2008. In its conclusions the unit defined Bulgaria as a democracy with defects and placed it in 46th place from 167 countries. Actions and legislative decisions under the Election Code are also part of the powerful erosion processes of the foundations of democracy generated and conducted by GERB. History won't forgive you for this! And all Bulgarian citizens and all the parties for which peace and democracy, European values and prosperity are not just declarations, but a cause will not allow you to forget yourself! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Dear Mr. Markov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The current veto of the Head of State is a very important political act. Important because it distracts two myths, which are hardly launched in the last 20 days by the leaders of the Bulgarian opposition, BSP and DPS, with all due respect to their opinion. The first myth is that there is a convergence of the party with the state. We are a parliamentary republic, but with a directly elected head of state. And the Head of State, as can be seen once again, is not a representative of the ruling party, but, on the contrary, a bright representative of the Bulgarian opposition. Mr. Radev is your president! He will never become ours after this trilogy, which he made November, New Year's Eve and then reported. The second is the fact that the GERB party, which has won elections four times in a row, does not have an independent majority of 121 votes to overcome the veto. What is the convergence of GERB party with the state? To overcome this veto, the efforts of at least a few more formations are needed. There are two things that are characteristic of the views of Mr. President, according to the electoral process in Bulgaria and the most prominent of them is the so-called "Machinery voting." Anyone in life and politics can be possessed by something. I've been possessed by Orbanomania for 31 years. He's possessed by a machine vote. Even on New Year's Eve, when people fucked with cups and kissed, he bothered us with a machine vote. The natural question is: was he elected by machine voting? If the engine vote is a prerequisite, the only guarantee of honesty in the elections, we must repeat the presidential vote to throw away the towel and make presidential elections. When he is elected without a machine vote, things can be regular, and when he chooses GERB there can be problems with the honesty of the elections. I remember a show in which a prominent representative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party of a question by Tsvetanka Rizova: Mr. Svilenski, where did you see this thing in Europe? That's why we have to go back to the results of the last election. Who held them? Mr. Radev held them. Who was Prime Minister? One of our best living lawyers, Professor Gerdjikov. What are the results of the elections in Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna and Burgas, where are about 100 members of parliament? GERB does not defeat the BSP in the twenty-fourth election district of Sofia, with 10 votes to be mencaned ballots, but with 10%. They were defeated in Varna, defeated in Burgas, defeated in Plovdiv, Blagoevgrad and so on. So where are these trucks, the Bonebrods? Is it normal to think that in Sofia, in the hallmark municipality of Sredets, in the sign municipality of Oborishte, in which I was elected, and there was the best that BSP could get out of Stefan Danailov, were replaced ballots? Have you heard such a complaint? Four consecutive victories of GERB! Well, how did Boyko Borisov 2005 beat them? With one Tsvetanov! Then there was no GERB would have them 70-30. And two years later in Sofia from the first round with 53%. The worst part of politics is not to recognise the vote.. the voice of the people and God. This is a trend in the liberal and socialist community in Europe. Look at Poland. It brought them out of Kaczynski parliament and out of 40 million Poles, of course, 30 thousand dissatisfied and roaring. What are they crying about? They don't want it. But I'm sorry, it's the voice of the people and God! In Hungary, he beats them three times with two thirds. Because Orban's economy is working because the country is the most secure one, there is no rape of minors, there is no cutting of heads like in Western Europe. They're picking him with two thirds! 30,000 liberals came out crying against the electoral system. And if he decides to make it major, he'll beat them by not two-thirds, but three-quarters. And if he does it proportionately, half of them won't get in. And here we come to the electoral system something the Bulgarian President stubbornly does not want to say a word about, only that he was elected with a platform. In this platform, he repeatedly stated a resonant electoral system, in which there is a resonant, we are actually going back to the 90th year. Because at a round table in front of the eyes of Bulgaria the system is decided to be mixed and fair because it reconciles the advantages and disadvantages of one and the other 200 to 200. The following year BSP saw the rise of the SDS, removed the majority system, the Head of State promised mixed elections, BSP colleagues promised at least half respect for the vote of the Bulgarian voters. Two and a half million votes wanted majority elections! A better result in the years of transition gives only Dr. Zhelev. And the President is deliberately silent on this topic because the first major elections -- 200, one part of the parliament -- in Sofia, 22 to two -- were beaten. They took two mandates and Janaki Stoilov would in the gypsy neighborhood Manush Romanov, and above in the "Mladost." Drago Draganov, a good professor, would be a five-year-old. When the experiment was done in every multi-mandated area to have one majority, GERB ruined them. Voice did not take the Bulgarian Socialist Party! She suffers from chronic personality shortages. And you're gonna say, "Well, they used to have personalities. Where did they have it? Sashko Pramatarski, a young lawyer from Gotse Delchev, would Pirinski. Here Sashko Karakachanov is a non-human, pale-faced, without beard, would Prodev be the editor-in-chief of the Word. Ventzi Dimitrov hit Karakachanov and Dancho Vasilev would be the legendary General Dobri Djurov in Troyan. That's why they're running from major elections! And here I owe a big apology to the Volya party because in a briefing given with Prime Minister Borisov, I neglected to say that the Volya party was for majority elections. I apologized to each and every one of you, shaking his hand. Now I apologize to your constituents. And well done, your name goes to the will you have shown! First, to support the government of GERB without participating in it, because it is the voice of the people and God, and the second time the majority vote, because it is the voice of the people and God. Hat off, will you? You are very nice and one of the most intelligent groups I have seen in the history of new Bulgaria. [[Applause.]] Let's finish now with the so-called references. On the issue of preferences GERB ruled politically one week before the veto of the President. He is banging his man at an open door, the political decision of GERB is to remain as they were, and my recommendation, my proposal to colleagues from GERB, to the leadership, to Mr. Tsvetanov is to submit again the Law on Majority Elections to hear the two and a half million Bulgarians that there are in this Parliament people who listen to the voice of the people! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Markov, we've been listening very carefully. You, as a prominent constitutionalist, have heard nothing about the right of choice and the right to vote of Bulgarian citizens! We didn't hear it from your statement or your statement. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Are there any other lines, colleagues? I won't. Here you are, dear Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u10	With all due respect to you and your constituents, my life has been one year among the Bulgarian Turks in the city of Ardino. I have excellent impressions of them a heavy barracks 1969, and I was very pleased to live among these people. I understand what you're talking about, but we're going back to the fact that there's no machine voting anywhere in Europe. We're in the 30th year of democracy, but we're not one of the most developed. We have citizens abroad. Don't the Greeks? That they're 10 million in Chicago! That wherever you turn in Europe is a Greek restaurant next to a Greek restaurant! What about the Poles? Millions of Poles abroad! Are they voting machine? Nowhere! There are plenty of voting opportunities for the Bulgarian voters abroad and in diplomatic representations and in the sections and so on. I think engine voting is primitive. [[DPS lines: "Ssections, sections! "]] , and does not lead Bulgaria to Europe, but leads us to Venezuela.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u11	Where are the civil rights of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Are there any other statements? [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] We're waiting, dear Mr. Kirilov, but I don't see any further requests for speeches. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u13	Mr. Kirilov?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u14	No, he didn't make a request, Mr. Tsonev. He just paid attention to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, on the president's veto and under the law. The Parliamentary Group of the Council of Rights and Freedoms will support the Law at this third reading, not because it is perfect, nor because it regulates the rights of Bulgarian citizens given to them under the Constitution, but because we believe that the Law is one step ahead of more justice, cleaner and quality electoral process. Secondly, because we disagree with much of the motives. I am sure that by the legal part my colleague Hamid will speak on the ground, but I will just point out that they are not the rights of citizens given by the Constitution, nor by any law, but the right to choose preferential ones. This is not a basic civil law. A fundamental civil right given by the Constitution is, wherever you are, to have the right to choose and be elected. Mr. Markov, this is what we're talking about, not the engine vote. Those Bulgarian citizens, who are outside the European Union, are deprived of the right to vote at all [[(Noise and lines: (Liar!)]] They're deprived. Those who are outside the European Union cannot vote! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u16	Put her in order!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u17	Please be quiet! Don't apostrophe Mr. Tsonev! If you want the floor, then I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u18	The constitution says that the way elections are held is determined by law. By law, some kind of preferential vote has been defined with certain thresholds. We at the DPS believe that this does not work, that this does not in any way carry out majority in the vote and the practice of recent years shows it. And this method has become a means of controlling the vote, a way of corporate vote and, of course, not least, a distortion of the vote itself. There's a lot of facts in that direction. Let us not dwell on the fact that this mantra to choose individuals is not realized at all given the choice that is made for both this and the previous parliament, but also for the European elections. Before I go back to Mr. Markov's question: why machine, because he emphasized and as a respected constitutionalist somehow I feel obliged to answer him. Yes, the engine voting may not be anywhere else, but the engine voting is a means of improving the electoral process in its part of the polling committee, where terrifying things are happening, in everyone's opinion. I do not claim that this distorts the vote, but I say that this creates a great deal of uncertainty and mistrust in the electoral process. And there's no point in bringing you examples. Not to mention how it slows down the results and what scandals are happening, what bags are driving, how many hours it counts, it ticks. Sixty-six percent of the protocols have been corrected by these sectional committees! So this is the engine vote that is able to solve the problem there, the subjective problem in the sectional election committees! The other reason why we will support the Law, which disagrees with the President's motives, is that he did not say a single word about these rights given by the Constitution of Bulgarian citizens, which they are deprived of. There should have been at least one sentence in there! At least to give a signal to the public and to the National Assembly that the Presidential institution understands the essence of the big problem in this Election Code. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will continue to fight for these rights of Bulgarian citizens, as stated in the Constitution:................................... Because to deprive them of the right to vote is to equalise them to those disclosed in art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution, which are incarcerated or who are imprisoned. That's what it says there. At least it's offensive! Not to mention unconstitutional. The real debate on the Election Code and on the rights of Bulgarian citizens is not concentrated at all on the presentation. And for us from the DPS is no surprise the decision of GERB to change its direction of movement in the Election Code. On the contrary, the night we accepted it, we in the parliamentary group said that this law would last the most until Sunday. We picked him up Thursday at 1:00 a.m. He lasted about that long, until Sunday morning two days. But I would also like to remind you that this preference for which Bulgarian citizens were working is also a means of solving the caterial party struggles in a right-wing coalition that has no chance of appearing in elections in the form of coalition, if there are no preferences in this form, with a low threshold. That's what we decide. No rights of Bulgarian citizens to vote majority we do not decide! The DPS will continue to stand firm in the position it has always stood in regarding the Election Code! Thank you. Time extension, please. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u19	You want a time extension? Please extend the time. - What's the line? There are no lines to Mr. Tsonev. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The election code issue has become one of the main political issues. Of course, this topic is political, but it is also very technical. In this case, no radical changes were made to the electoral system before the elections, as was suggested. Corrections have been made that have an impact on the election process, but not such an influence that will radically change the system, cancel some civil rights, as the president says, and make sure that the ruling party or the ruling coalition wins more votes than it would win without these changes. We need to make it clear that the changes that have been made are not essential, are not fundamental, fundamental to the electoral process in Bulgaria, and that is not bad. Today we are viewing a veto in a room whose half is empty, as a political gesture and perhaps part of the election campaign of the main opposition force. Once we have heard the speeches of the individual parliamentary groups, we understand that for the first time in the new history of Bulgaria, the president's veto will be rejected by zero votes for the veto! No MP in this Parliament will support this veto. And this is because the opposition did not even listen to President Radev's call to attend at least for this discussion, and this is a bigger issue. After for two weeks the opposition tried to delegitimate the electoral process by insinuating that these amendments were made to fake the elections that have not yet been held and which remain for another three months, now the same opposition has practically delegitiated the presidential institution by refusing to enter the Chamber and support its own president! And this is already a sign that the opposition has entered a phase of destructiveness, which is turning inside of it itself, it is already destructive in terms of itself, not only in terms of the government, but it is a problem for the whole country! Because the main opposition force represents an alternative.. this alternative can be good, it can be bad. In this case, it is an alternative that is attributed to destructive passions, including self-destruction! So perhaps today the President regrets imposing this veto because it has become not a political instrument of the President, but a political instrument against the President by the party that supports him! We will, of course, reject this veto because it is not at the height of the changes that have been made. These changes, I repeat, are not fundamental, are not unconstitutional, as you suggested. Including Mrs. Maya Manolova, who said that the preference is almost constitutional law, but did not explain where the threshold of preferences is set in the Bulgarian Constitution. We will return the preferences not because BSP tells us to return them. We will return the preferences to prevent any attempts to convince ourselves that this is how we want to win a professional victory! GERB will win the elections not because of the rules of the game "GERB" will win the elections because there are more voters and more support than BSP, and that is obvious! And BSP will lose them because no one wants to be ruled by people in whose heads, apart from chaos, there is nothing else. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll continue where Mr. Bikov speaks. Full demagogy, colleagues, was the position of BSP Full demagogy because, speaking of rights being taken, they didn't say anything about the withdrawal of constitutional rights! Even my esteemed Mr. Markov quite conveniently, when it came to constitutional rights, began to explain to machines why there was no machine voting in Europe. As a matter of fact, at the moment in Europe alone in Belgium is voted with machines, colleagues, but let's say why several countries have long voted with machines and canceled it There's no mention of that detail. A machine that is tied up on the Internet is now extremely easy to manipulate, and I share that opinion. This is also the opinion of the Constitutional Court of Germany because it is about voting with machines, but these machines were tied to a database of their GRAO, as was the case in the Netherlands. So this detail should be shared, not withheld. When we talk about sedentary elections for representatives of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Parliament, first of all, of course, we need to mention art. 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which says that no matter where they are, all Bulgarian citizens have equal rights and obligations under this Constitution. Something unacceptable happened a few years ago "Bulgarian citizens were divided into two categories in violation of art. 26 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: of those living in the territory of the European Union and of those living outside the territory of the European Union. In recent days there are calls: let us save our fellow citizens who live in the territory of the United Kingdom and make an exception to the exception of the exception! Let's even put it in art. 26 of the Constitution that these Bulgarian citizens who live in the territory of the UK have somehow pό special rights! How long will we continue to make such mistakes, colleagues? We must mention, next, the two resolutions of the European Parliament. The last, supported by a huge majority. I had the opportunity to thank all GERB representatives in the European Parliament for supporting this resolution. You clearly have nothing to do with them, because the European Parliament is adopting a resolution that tells all Member States to enable their citizens, wherever they live, in which territory, to vote for the European Parliament. The European Parliament is convinced that this will achieve a much greater representation of the European Parliament itself. But apparently, colleagues, you really have nothing to do with these European representatives from the Political Party GERB in the European Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u23	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will re-vote for this law and thus reject the president's veto. This is how we will do the IMRO MPs, who insist, however, on making a few details as to why we are going to vote this way. First of all, I recall that we were one of the main political forces that declared themselves against raising the threshold of preferences so that they would virtually not function. We have done so with the clear awareness that this is an acquired right of the citizens, which must be preserved. Whether this is a fundamental right, whether it is a constitutional law, we have never claimed such a thing. However, we argue that there is a huge problem and this problem is the lack of confidence in the political class and their desire to be able to choose individuals behind the joint party ballot. There is a lot of talk about the majority vote, which is often waved by a certain group of people, when they want to draw attention when they want to write points, because this is the most liked, simplest according to the citizens' decision, a well-blown bubble, by the way, from a television station. But let's remember that such a majority vote led to a civil war in Bulgaria during Stamboliiski. Let us recall that this majority vote was tabled by the BCP in the first Soviet experience, precisely to strengthen totalitarian power. And let us be clear that, as a political class, we must also adopt unpopular decisions in the name of society, of the common good. So we have never run away from the majority vote debate, and we have always been against it, because it will not bring peace to society, on the contrary, will lead to huge groups of unpresented people. In fact, the way to reconcile the two elements is the desire to have personalities in parliament, and the desire to have political parties represented is precisely the preferential vote. We at IMRO have always been even opposed to defending the first because everyone must come up with their name and their name to gain support from their fellow citizens. In this respect, we will continue to defend this thesis and the only reason we are voting for the Law and against the veto is the fact that our partners from GERB have given guarantees that the old state of the Law will be restored. We could not support the veto for several reasons. First of all, because it makes quite a false suggestion that there will be no judicial control over decisions of the electoral administration; that the ordinary majority will be primarily for decision-making in the CEC and other committees; for machine voting. Basically, a set of hypotheses whose sole purpose was to confirm that someone through this law, through these changes, will make elections less fair, which we disagree with. However, at the end of the day, I would like to thank Mr. President because his veto has contributed to some of it will be respected, albeit otherwise. Preferences will come back and in this respect he will have his merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Patriots from the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria and we will also vote against the veto of the President in this regard our parliamentary group - United Patriots - is about to be united, which is good. But our motives are not in every respect, at any point, a point coincide with the motives of our fellow Members, and it is appropriate to make a brief explanation. On the main issues at stake in the veto. First of all, the rates. We from the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria do not believe that preferences bring any new dose of democracy or majority. On the contrary, in all cases so far in elections, when a majority vote was applied, including when it was first applied by the BSP, the results showed that majority candidates were essentially supported depending on which party they are. This, Mr. Markov, proves the opposite of your thesis that in the National Assembly majority elected by GERB were people who had not even heard their names in the districts. It was just a proportional vote. That's the truth. We have always been against strengthening this percentage of majority, however, from the point of view and at the level of democratic electoral culture, which has been created for decades and centuries, such as, unfortunately, we cannot say that Bulgaria is at the necessary level. Because the huge risk in applying a purely majority vote is for these chairs and banks in the National Assembly to be filled with silicones, with Botoxes, with kick-starters and all types of underground representatives from different areas, municipalities, towns and villages. The risk is very high because at present with the proportional system, after all, the National Assembly is a legitimate representative of the Bulgarian society - good, bad, with 8%, with 9% rating, this is our society, this is the national representation and in parliament. With the preferences in this case, it is possible for unclean displacement at any price with the use of family ties, influence, pressure, corporate pressure also, the involvement of large companies in the individual settlements in the lists of parties accidentally found people to go to second and third positions, which replaces the model of parliamentary democracy, party democracy in Bulgaria, which is reproduced in every choice. It is quite natural for any party that has a programme that has a cause to try to implement it through its representatives in the various bodies of government and in the National Assembly, to set its goals and arrange a list in which to try to secure a wider range of specialists from different areas who are competent in making decisions, not people who have been at the last places in the lists and then to take up some more prominent positions and thus turn our municipal councils into places for the distribution of municipal orders, in general terms of privileges. For this reason, we are against and will vote against the veto. At the second point of the engine vote, we also believe that it is not a panacea and will in no way stop the corporate vote and expressing positions that have nothing to do with a personal democratic belief that is what we believe. On the statements before me from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which claimed that: there were heard that there were a huge percentage of invalid ballots in the sections and so on, I would note to them that repeating the same lies from the stands of the National Assembly does not produce truths, it is a lie! A sad lie, a sad one! And I don't particularly like the election results, honourable Members, but to become one of you, you have been involved, including Mr. Tsonev, deliberately mentioning his name, you have been involved, I suppose, with elections and you have reviewed the protocols from the different sections. After the last few choices, the protocols of the sections are carried at the party headquarters by the representatives of the party concerned, by the advocates. They are signed by the chairman of the committee, by the secretary and have the stamp of the section. I would like to ask: Mr. Tsonev, stand up and tell me at least two sections where you have identified a discrepancy from the protocol that your representatives have brought in and the protocol from the Regional Election Commission, or subsequently published on the Internet protocol by the Municipal Election Commission? I have also dealt with our area, Mr. Tsonev, with Burgas, but the last few choices do not differ. The second lie you're running is that they're invalid. There are no invalid protocols, there are faulty protocols. Wronged, because that is the level of those who are in the electoral committees. These mistakes, unfortunately, I say again because I, too, repeat myself, do not like the results of the elections, unfortunately, mistakes do not bring about any change in the number of votes voted for individual parties and hence in the Congregation published by the OIC and respectively the final result. Yes, in Bulgaria the elections are being manipulated here we agree, but not where you are looking. They are manipulated into people's heads before they enter through pressure, threat, vote payment and so on. There, there, we must direct our efforts. Unfortunately, I have a very serious concern and doubt why you insist on a machine vote? [[Reply from DPS: "Share! "]] Yes, I will share: on an unusually literate electorate, not particularly high level you can very easily tell him: when you go to vote machine, on this screen there is a built-in camera inside. That's it. This way you will secure the vote at 100% of your electorate. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u27	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u28	Now you might find it funny, just think of it as an option. The third motive in the presidential veto, because we need to talk about the substance, and on the veto, this is the item on the agenda, is the incompetence, the lack of control over CEC decisions and so on. I'm not going to go in there in detail. There are plenty of lawyers who have already expressed their position. That's not true, that's not true. In this case, the President is trying to submit, as well as in his previous motives, in general doubt against the elections. That's no longer state-of-the-art behavior. Because the suggestion a few months before the elections that they will be manipulated does not in any way lead to an increase in trust in the institutions and in general to the electoral process. And for two more manipulations that were expressed here that Bulgarians abroad were deprived of the right to vote. No, they're not deprived. In the current rules of the Election Code in each country outside the European Union, up to 35 sections are opened in the order in which they are declared by a certain number of voters, are organised and so on. I can give you examples of three different settlements with Sacramento, California, Vancouver, and wherever you want, for example, Istanbul or Izmir. In these three places, we have different cases. In Sacramento, for example, there was a vote of a few or ten or fifteen votes, so a section was opened, for which a room was rented respectively, were sent representatives from Bulgaria, and so on and so on and so on, and finally ten people will go to you! This is a mass phenomenon in the southern states of the United States of America. There were paradoxes like this in Scotland and so on. The case of London, which always beats us with huge queues in all elections, is really nothing but unspoken voters, unregistered in advance, people who enjoy a privilege that no Bulgarian citizen in Bulgaria will go when they want to, without registering, and wait for everything to be ordered. Thus, hundreds of people line up in a section that practically has no opportunity to take them over within eight hours of election process. So it's a matter of organization. I will finally refer to your beloved Ankara, Istanbul or Izmir. Do you know what was going on in the last election? They also had the opportunity to vote, but could not complete their declarations because they did not understand the Bulgarian language! This requirement of the Central Election Commission could not be realised. Since we have sent our representatives to all sections, it has come to this that we have stopped your friends from entering the parliament and now with you to make a living. Since we have sent representatives to all sections, we have witnessed disgusting scenes, including physical assault against the representative of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian party. When they saw that there was no place inside someone made them fill out the declarations, the buses arrived, loaded them from one end of Istanbul and drove them to the other side of Istanbul so that they could vote in another section where our representatives were expected not to be so principled. Well, you didn't open your chute! I'm sorry, but this isn't a suffrage. Everyone has the right to vote and could exercise it. In general, this rule, which acted to return to Britain, worries that now 35 sections will not be enough, will be enough for them! Because statistics show that basically there are larger, several large English cities, but not in the province. So this is also a matter of organization. The second manipulation you keep repeating about sedentaryness. I'm sorry, at the point we're looking at the President's veto right now, there's not a word about it. So you don't have to repeat it all the time, Mr. Karadaye, you don't have to. That's not the subject of the veto. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. A line? Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Simeonov, I can't agree with you. I cannot agree with the fact that you are insulting a Bulgarian electorate and an electorate, as you have called it, even though he voted for you, that he is semi-literate, because he is the Bulgarian sovereign even if he voted for the United Patriarchs. After all, these are Bulgarian citizens and their vote is decided by the People's Voice. All the other things you listed under the Election Code are absolutely untenable. First, for the invalid ballots. If you make one reference, you will see that there range from 200 to 400,000 invalids. This literally constitutes several parliamentary groups that can be in the Bulgarian Parliament. I do not agree with you that, in fact, these wrong protocols, as you say, do not affect. You gave one private case in Burgas, I will give you another case, which was in Kazanlak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u31	The weather, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u32	I'm sorry. Just a second, and I'm graduating. The court then ruled that there are enough wrong protocols for the election of municipal councillors, cashing out the municipal council and setting other elections, but when you go to check and ask the court to check the relevant sections and the wrong protocols, it does not allow you. If there are 100 sections in Burgas, the court will not allow you to check 100 sections, will allow you selectively several and it may be that they are not enough to change the distribution, but de facto this has happened. So your thesis is untenable, Mr. Simeonov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Mr. Mareshki, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u34	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Simeonov, after the severe insult that was done to all Bulgarian mothers a few months ago...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u35	On the subject, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u36	...we expected that... I'll go this way. That's on the subject. We expected that new peaks would not be reached, but today you reached them when you insulted the entire Bulgarian people, including the Bulgarians of the male sex, the Bulgarian men, by telling them that their sovereign right to want what they want, namely majority voting, and not just because they want majority voting, but because they want to know their people's chosen that they, if they are, are debilitating, have no right to want it and that this thing will corrupt the vote and they will not get what they want. The fact that if there are majority elections, there will probably be no representatives in the parliament of your three formations does not mean that quality will not be higher. On the contrary, we believe that Parliament's rating will be raised multiple times if people come here to the majority elected, and each one to bear responsibility to his constituents. This is the meaning of the majority vote, and not to enter as you call them......................... and so on, although some kickers must be much higher than what you represent in Parliament. So let us not insult the Bulgarian citizens, let us respect their right to express their will and when they have said that they want majority elections, we must fight to find a way to make the elections the majority elections so that they are right. The fact that there were majority elections held at a certain time, which were held by law, which is untenable, does not mean that, for example, the President of the United States, the President of Russia, the mayors...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u37	The weather, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u38	...the mayors of the land are chosen that they are unreal, that they should be appointed such party leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Third line, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u40	Dear Mr. Simeonov, I use the line to complete your speech. If we have to go back historically to voting on those amendments to the Election Code, the proposal of the then "Patriotic Front" was to hold a vote outside the country only in diplomatic representations. "Clean, simple, clear and without exceptions." It's a veto. There's been a miscarriage. We have made the exception for the European Union. The truth is that we were ready to make a single exception to not allow the vote of Bulgarian citizens outside diplomatic missions where there is no necessary level of democracy, such as Turkey. In fact, we wanted to protect the Bulgarian society all the time from bringing in 10 or more MPs from tyrant Erdogan.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u41	Say that one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u42	Mr. Veselinov, please do not define.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u43	That was our goal. It worked out somehow. I think it works fine, but that's what the DPS colleagues are never gonna do.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u44	What are these qualifications?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for the coat. Then a personal explanation of Mr. Tsonev, then a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u46	I specifically asked my colleagues from the DPS and some of their representatives by name. I wanted to hear you quote at least one section where there is a discrepancy in the protocol that your representatives have brought you and the section that has been published on the websites of the RIK and the OIC. I didn't hear an answer! Two, don't manipulate! You're sophisticated in manipulation, but 2008. The elections were held under the Elections Act, not under the Election Code, where there were none of these requirements for protocols, for wear, for presentation and so on. There was nothing like that! There was no such thing! I am not talking about elections throughout the democratic period. I'm talking about elections under this Election Code. Manipulation is extremely limited.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u47	Based on the protocols, the election was cashed out...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u48	This repetition for the sacks, for false protocols and so on, and newsletters, excuse me, it's just not correct. In addition, 200 "400,000 invalid ballots." Not that many, but yes, there is a large number.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u49	Enter the CEC and see.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u50	That's the level. That's it! The ballot is filled out by the voter! Nobody's holding his hand, he goes into the room and fills it out. So much for the comment on your line. Mr. Mareshki, the grave insults of all Bulgarian mothers are not such! You haven't been watching the press carefully, and you've been listening much less to what I'm saying. You know, unlike a lot of politicians in Bulgaria who think and are proud... Unlike you, I'm a man who always tells the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u51	You're lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u52	In this case, I told the truth! Whether anyone likes it or not, the reason I said it was because another attempt was...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u53	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u54	...a small group to acquire rights to illegally drain the budget for its rights and needs. That was the reason for my speech. That's how much you figured it out. Finally, if you still think I've offended all men, I publicly apologize. I didn't mean you because you're not my criterion for political masculinity. Thank you. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. [[Heckling]] I don't know how to react to what you're surprised at. I can't know what the public representative from the stands will say. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Simeonov, you mentioned my name saying that I told two or three lies. One by one, to disprove them for the truth and for our constituents, and for what we have gathered here today, the Election Code and the rules under which elections are being held. First of all, I never claimed in my previous statement that we were talking about invalid protocols. We said there were mistakes and over two thirds of the protocols. Secondly, in terms of giving you an example of at least one protocol that was different from what is coming. Mr. Simeonov, 2013 I was tasked with other colleagues to do a parallel census of votes and we did it this way: all the protocols arrived at our center as in the CEC, copies, of course, and checked these copies with the CEC protocols. Thirty-four percent, I have an archive for you, Mr. Simeonov, if you like, 34% were inconsistent with the protocols we received at the power stations, with the signatures. There were differences between 8 "10" and 12 "15" to 30 votes, I say, for example. I'm the one who keeps these copies, and I'm not the only one who keeps them. In BSP I think Denitsa Zlateva has the technical faces they made. Moreover, they were not signed by all members of the SIC, but by the protocol-bearing chairman or secretary of the sectary committee, removed my signature, my amendment. I'll show you. Thirty-four percent of all protocols! We don't talk nonsense. What I'm talking about concerns the whole process, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u57	Time, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u58	Therefore, the engine vote is not because of those who cannot handle it, but because of the machine, when the election day ends, all results will come out immediately. This one first. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Second, which is also very important The invalids will be reduced to zero just because the machine does. The invalids are not invalid on the DPS. They are both yours and GERB's and everyone's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. I'll give Mr. Mareshki a personal explanation because he's offended by Mr. Simeonov's backdrop.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u60	That was a doppelganger! There's no personal explanation on the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u61	It's an exact personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u62	You have no right on the back! Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u63	I'll go straight to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u64	Please come in for a statement. Excuse me, Mr. Mareshki, let's do the procedure the way you lead then. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, in view of the fact that you did not comment on the speakers from the high tribune of the National Assembly when certain negative qualifications were made for the Bulgarian society. The target is clear, the goal is clear which part of the Bulgarian society is qualified as people who... I don't want to repeat the words that were spoken here, and you didn't have an attitude. It was when we stood up and we would continue to stand up for the engine vote in what way they would come and recognize, and what fears would be put into people. We believe that it is not right at all to speak out of the National Assembly's stands, even more than one former Deputy Prime Minister. It's not the first time, so we're not surprised. It's more like this is supposed to intersect. How are qualifications made with regard to our fellow citizens living in England? These fellow citizens of ours, I am merely reminding the former Deputy Prime Minister that they are people who have gone, are enterprising people who work and live there. In his statement, it definitely refers to the fact that they have an excess of rights. On the contrary, with all the amendments being made to the Election Code, the electoral process is constantly complicated. This does not result in the realization of the right to vote of our fellow citizens. This former deputy prime minister was in charge of demographic policy. With similar statements and the rating of the National Assembly, our fellow citizens in what way, watching us, would not be motivated to return, given the demographic profile...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u66	That's a statement, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u67	...in our country, we have to work... No, I am making a remark that a remark should be made to the speaker, Madam President. Thus, such comments should not be overlooked. We cannot qualify our fellow citizens in such a way that they have such a simple approach. That is not acceptable and not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Here's your speech, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Chakarov, let us not recall this shameful page of Bulgarian history in this way and not mention it as a former Deputy Prime Minister. Just in some other way, because in the end it doesn't get nice to any Bulgarian when he thinks of this moment in our Bulgarian history.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u70	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u71	In essence, we, the parliamentary group of VOLIA, will reject the veto of the President because of several things. The main thing is: pure demagogy in certain cases, coming to the cynicism of the ideas, which here in the Chamber were protected by the BSP, and in fact the President's statement as a spokesperson of the BSP on the topic. Naturally, we were the only ones here in the debates, and I see that we continue to be the only ones fighting for a strong majority system, such as the will of the Bulgarian people, partly expressed at the moment with the possibility to vote with preferences, not free for the Bulgarian citizens with the threshold that has been so far, and the attempt for their pure murder with the increase of thresholds. Here we can no longer ignore the theme of the frank demagogy of one of the so-called Patriots who say to return the old threshold, we are about returning the old threshold, but what majority is given when they are too high? If you are for preferences as part of majority in Bulgaria, support the will of the Bulgarian people to remove the thresholds. Every Bulgarian citizen, who is more famous, has done more for his fellow citizens and is approved by them, no matter how much more he is supported, to go forward. Even under the old system, a person who receives the support of 10,000 of his fellow citizens may not be able to replace the other who has received zero preferences before him just because it is arranged on the list for unknown reasons for Bulgarian citizens. We at WOLIA are categorically for removing the thresholds for preferences, as one of the best form for Bulgaria's citizens to rearrange the lists in a way that they think is best for them, for their region, for their municipality. The engine vote. In this part, we generally agree with the president's veto, but here we join the idea that this will be changed after the veto has been rejected in the coming days with a change in the Law, where we will give our proposal to remove the preferences thresholds. The machine voting has already been rejected in many places around the world, because in practice we see more than a few tens of millions being spent on certain companies. Real machine voting contributes nothing to increasing voter turnout, to improving the honesty of the electoral process. Let's all clearly say that the person should go to the section anyway if he is going to release a paper bulletin, which with him is much clearer what he has written and what he has released than the fucking in the machine that we all know is whether over the Internet, even unrelated to the Internet, then, if it is not connected to the Internet, some carrier has to get the information out of there, this carrier where he will go and how no one will be reformed can give any guarantees. For us, the engine vote brings nothing much as an addition to the electoral process. We believe that it is unreasonable to spend millions of Bulgarian money that can be spent much more useful. However, the more important point is the electronic vote. Electronic voting is something that gives every Bulgarian citizen the right and opportunity at every point in the world, without lining up, to give his vote. Yes, to date we also have our concerns that he can be manipulated. This process must be worked in this direction. This process must be guaranteed. This would already unblock the process of every Bulgarian citizen telling himself the opinion of the people he sends to certain posts. We will continue to fight, this was expressed and is the will of a large part of the Bulgarian people that an electronic vote should be admitted. In this regard, we are already limiting the rights of Bulgarian citizens, which we also define as cynical and divide them into those living in Britain, the United States, India or Turkey... All Bulgarian citizens at any point in the world have equal rights and obligations. We don't accept that someone wants to stop someone else for something. That's not how it's done. Go, convince, show that you are better, not to restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Just because you're limiting them doesn't mean that the parliament will get better than those you think you've stopped them from entering. Well, we thought that if we had appeared earlier on the political stage, not to wonder what good things to do for the people, so that they could live better, you wouldn't have entered the parliament and now it would have had a much higher rating. But should we now ban voting for those like you in order to raise Parliament's rating?! No. Our job is to walk among the people and convince that political impostors, as he calls you, Deutsche Welle...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u72	Mr. Mareshki, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u73	...political cynics...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u74	Don't use insulting qualifications, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u75	I'm not insulting anyone, I'm talking in general. You shouldn't, anyone who recognizes themselves... Political prostitutes... [[Noise and shout in GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u76	Mr. Mareshki, I'm making a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u77	...have no place in the Bulgarian Parliament. In this, however, we see and our guilt has not led our propaganda well enough, we have not gone among the voters to tell them about how at the moment when you do not fulfill your election promise for 300 BGN. pensions, we bring it in on your behalf! We insert it into the Bulgarian Parliament as one of the first points, and you from the wall of disgrace vote against the House or shamefully leave the Chamber. That's the qualification given by the Deutsche Welle. That's what they meant when your first point was 300 BGN. pensions, half of the term is over and we see the level of pensions in Bulgaria. That's why the protests are the right ones, the fair protests of the pensioners, because they feel deceived. However, we consider much more actively exposing you, exposing all political fraudsters, so that people can truly understand who is useful to them, who are the ideas that would improve the level of life, democracy in Bulgaria, the right of everyone to express their vote and to be sure that, as they vote, it will be accounted for. It is because of these things that we believe that our place is here and we will continue to follow our path by lighting up all those who lower the level of parliament, but this is the less working for the Bulgarian people to continue to be robbed by the schemes of "built buildings" and "passports" and all the other property frauds that are committed under the auspices of a certain group of so-called "Patriots" and so on. All of this, we're not gonna let it go. We will not leave you in silence to continue marauding the Bulgarian people! Thank you. [[Applause from the Bulgarian Rhodolists.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u79	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First, in essence, on the subject under discussion. Mr. Mareshki, there are no restrictions on voting Bulgarians abroad. I've said it twice today from this tribune. Meet the Election Code. It shall give the right to vote in 35 sections organised under the respective procedure defined by the Election Code in each country outside the European Union. There's no such limit. I won't! I would like to inform you that a number of countries do not even allow their citizens abroad to vote, except in embassies and consulates, what Mr. Veselinov mentioned was in a brief change in the Election Code during the Forty-third National Assembly. So you're wrong here. In terms of engine voting. You rightly noted that this is related to additional costs. However, you somehow forget that opening sections abroad is also associated with serious costs. We have made an account, very often the cost of opening a section in the distant American West or South is worth over £10,000. With a missionary, with everything else. It's a lot more money than that. If you really care about the Bulgarian budget and the Bulgarian taxpayer, it is right not to claim in this way an unlimited opportunity to vote outside the European Union because it is money, it is wrong expenditure. And on these issues that are not relevant to the subject under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u80	The weather, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u81	Three hundred leva election promise. Mr. Mareshki, yes, that was the election promise. For us, they voted a little over 9%. In the hypothesis of a coalition, the interests or the respective election promises of the two countries are always agreed..... Coalition.................................... and GERB. That's all we've been able to do. We've raised 200 levs. the minimum pension. Eight hundred twenty-four thousand pensioners were benefited. Let's see what you do with naked populist speeches!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u82	The weather, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u83	And with regard to your flipping for the fence, say that someone has abused the fence to convict you because there are two ADPI checks that show that there is no such violation. Well, you're right about one thing...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u84	Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u85	...that there's no room for a political stump here!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u86	Mr. Simeonov, I'm also making a comment to you! Second line? I can't see. It's a hole, Mr. Mareshki. I hope I won't have to impose a more severe punishment on you than the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u87	You won't have to. Madam President, honourable Members, I am pleased that Mr. Simeonov, after saying that there is no room for a political stump here, left. He quit!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u88	Who left?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u89	Mr. Simeonov said there was no room for political stump and left. You're right, Mr. Simeonov, that was the right reaction. Don't be mistaken, we really need to put in the majority vote. See what you're doing wrong: sections abroad also cost money. But the sections abroad give our Bulgarian citizens the right to vote, and the machines do not give it to them, the machines give them another opportunity. You're going to the section anyway. That is, the cost of the section where a person can vote, we have done it and we are giving additional cost to machines so that he can vote with a machine. But we can decide to vote, for example, in a third way, with a fingerprint, with something else, with a token. These are already additional costs to the main ones that give the Bulgarian citizen the right to vote. And sections abroad are not an additional cost. They give right to our countrymen who have the same rights as us, only because of the political, I will not say what... are forced to leave Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u90	Careful!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u91	And you, two years in charge of this topic, did nothing to return to Bulgaria. This is not an additional cost. We cannot charge the right of Bulgarian citizens to express their right to vote, the most democratic thing where we are all equal. Young, old, healthy, right or whatever he is, everyone has one vote. And we should deprive our Bulgarian citizens of this right, because this was not profitable to some of our colleagues from parliament! On the subject of 300 leva. pension. You were tearing the shirts at your first point that you will stand to the end and you will not make any coalition if the first point is 300 BGN. You don't have a pension, you don't get into your joint management program. You were tearing the shirts. We didn't force you to do this. You should have said, "Well, we can't, and we don't want to. We'll make a coalition at any cost, just to be in the deal. But you were tearing the shirts in front of all of us. I was confused, too. Before I joined the parliament, I thought it would happen for our parents. Maybe we once supported one of you, only you could see the deception. The deception that election promises have nothing to do with the real actions in your coalition, self-called "United Patriarchs." Nothing patriotic about cheating your fellow citizens, especially those who voted for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement. Then Mr. Atanasov. But you, Mr. Atanasov, don't have time. The band doesn't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u93	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'll try to speak mainly technically. I'm going to pass the emotion, because it's always tradition that debates related to the Election Code give rise to enormous tensions, a huge amount of emotions, which I'm not sure is useful for this debate. It is true that the elections have become a bit like football "everyone understands the electoral process. This is generally good and important because in the election process there are directly more than 800,000 Bulgarian citizens involved as participants in section election committees, plus the Bulgarians who are in regional electoral committees, the Central Election Commission, logistics, protection of the electoral process. In addition, we all have electoral rights, and in one way or another we decide whether to exercise these electoral rights and who to choose. The current veto is yet another occasion to return to the debate on the Election Code. This veto actually, as said by colleague Bikov, has some peculiar features and I will refer to one of them. I will not comment on the five groups of the President's arguments, I will comment on the last paragraph of this paragraph, in which the President of the Republic says: "And let me address the question of how the amendments were actually adopted, the amendments to the Election Code. There is a regulation that is laid down in the Constitution how MPs vote. This regulation is developed by the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The deadline was not respected, honourable Members, in the case between 13 February and 14 February, when, once again, it is claimed, at latenight meetings, long sittings, the second reading took place and the report was not available to the Members of the National Assembly 24 hours earlier. Dear colleagues, I would object to the attempt to manipulate that the Constitution is being violated. In no way has the Constitution been broken in this case. And tell me: with what did I violate the Constitution on Wednesday, February 13th, when I gave the opposition the floor for 10 hours to make all my arguments three, four, five times, unlimited in time?! What did I do to violate their rights?! Yes, I broke the Rules of Procedure because I did not apply it strictly and gave them the opportunity to speak for more than three minutes or to replicate more than two minutes. That's why the debate was 10 o'clock. Yes, the next day, February 14th, in plenary the debate was 14 hours. Why was it 14 hours? Because once again the opposition had the undisturbed opportunity to explain, to insinuate, to brand. Honourable Members, I do not think that it is appropriate for the Head of State to comment on the procedural rules, even more.................................................................................... Article 79, para. 1 explicitly states: "The deadline of 24 hours is relevant for the report at first reading. "A in sentence two, because no one wants to read the texts to the end, explicitly says: "The same term, if the National Assembly does not decide otherwise, applies to the bills of second vote. " On duty and custom became in the debates on the Election Code to assert unconstitutionality. Remember the passion my colleagues blamed me for the box I don't support anyone. And what happened to the box, I don't support anyone, dear colleagues, including sociologists, including law philosophers? What happened? The square "I do not support anyone" explained one vote, according to the types of elections, of 350 or about 400,000 Bulgarians who really do not recognize any of the participants in the particular political competition. Yeah, and they've significantly reduced the null and void ballots. As time progresses, colleagues, I will not comment on yesterday's debate at the Legal Commission. He was a character too. I am glad that the President's representatives have spoken for over an hour and a half, we have listened carefully to their arguments. I would like to say about the preferences and read what the European Union's Directorate of Justice and Law has identified with inquiries in other European countries regarding the threshold of preferential voting. In elections for MEPs, the threshold is 5%, but in elections for the Austrian Parliament, the candidate is elected with a reference if he has received a quota equal to the number of actual votes cast for the election area divided by the number of mandates in the region, meaning the threshold there is one term. In Belgium, the threshold for both a MEP is one term, and for the internal national parliament the threshold is one term. Malta The threshold for both MEPs and the internal parliament is one term plus one vote. Ireland's the same situation. Slovenia same situation. The Netherlands has a position of interest, but with a different threshold, meaning it is not a single term, but according to the individual types of elections is either 10%, 12.5% and in the other case it is 12.5. I won't read the other cases. Dear colleagues, it has been explained in detail what is a majority vote and what is the combination of the majority vote in a preferential list, what is the personal individual participation and competition when you participate with the party's name, with the party's programme, with the authority and voters of the party. I will finish with this: the Bulgarian electoral process is not archaic, it is not ancient, although very often there is an unjustified aspiration for all kinds of experiments with it. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but after two or three choices will be seen specifically and what are the defects of the machine voting, you will see where the flash drives disappear, you will see what is the discrepancy or the correlation between the electronic recording of the flash drive and the paper-filled protocol again. However, honourable Members, on whichever side we place ourselves from both of the chosen ones and from that of the electors, we must have one task and it is to work for trust, for trust not only of our electoral system, for the trust of our right. What do we do? We do the opposite, and we do it with determination and perseverance, which we simply cannot explain. Thank you. [[Single applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u94	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, 99% of what you have said, I support you, but I will make you a remark, because I am probably the only one not to bet, but most likely so who has dared to appear majority as an independent candidate of essentially proportional elections. And I have faced, in practice, the legal screw-up of Bulgarian citizens with the fact that an independent candidate for a MP does not have the same rights as the proportionate candidates. The threshold for the independent candidate is higher than the one you are quoting. The independent candidate does not come up with the number of votes of the elected, divided by the number of mandates, but comes up with the number of votes of all voters divided by the number of mandates, and we all know that the number of votes of the voters is much more than the number of votes that have put parties in parliament. The independent candidate for the MP cannot appear and if there are representatives of his sympathizers in other areas, they cannot vote for him. With a small amendment in practice we can raise quite the level of the Bulgarian Parliament when we allow really famous, popular people to have really equal rights, that is, to participate in the whole country, to receive votes from all over the country and to benefit from this quota. Let the number of votes for parties that have entered, if accepted, divided by the number of all MPs, be the quota for it. I am sure that this is a very far-reaching feature for a significant part of the Bulgarians and this will help at least 10 20 people in the Bulgarian Parliament to be truly majority MPs and indeed representatives of the people who know them and not of a certain area, so to speak, to regionalize them legally. That's my point. If you really want us to make equal rights because at the moment in Lovech and in Varna it will appear that for one candidate the threshold will be 15 thousand votes, for the other will be 7 and the other way I told you about will make an absolutely equal threshold for all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u96	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Is there a second line? I can't see. Mr. Kirilov, would you like to use the possibility of a duvet? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mareshki, I'll take a very short line just to make a point. I express my gratitude to the political party parliamentary group Volja. For participating in the debate on this Election Code, which, for your parliamentary group, I am convinced, is for the first time, but in this debate your parliamentary group was involved with many proposals, some of which I recognise were provocation, were interesting. Provoking in a positive sense.. a challenge to thinking. I'd love to take part in a debate on election mathematics and I'm available for it. I support some of your claims. With regard to the majority vote, I would like to say that if we assume and imagine that the next elections are majority, our party, perhaps yours, have the best chance of receiving support in a majority vote. Thank you. [[Elevator bell dings]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Every time we talk about the Election Code, there is always political opposition because, sadly, some parties perceive the change in the Election Code as making rules to ensure some electoral victories in an unclean political race. Firstly, I would like to state categorically that this is a good defense thesis of those who want to state their reasons for their upcoming loss, but it will not be based on the change of the Election Code, but on the basis of their behaviour and the positions they stand for in society and the disinformation they constantly produce in the public domain because BSP, which are absent from this debate, have no other useful move. They played a bank, their president told them that they should leave the Bulgarian Parliament, not participate in the political debate, and the only place where the real policy is being made and the laws that have a direct bearing on the processes in the country are the Bulgarian Parliament. BSP preferred to solve its internal political problems by going out to an entire parliamentary group and not attending, perhaps for the first time in history, to a parliamentary power However, there must be very clear things to say here in order to be able to drop any speculation about continuing the circulation of non-truths in the public domain. And here, unfortunately, as an informal leader of opposition speech, President Radev has once again proved himself. A president who is elected according to the rules on which he says today that he has problems with electoral rights, has problems and why the engine vote is not introduced, which is a guarantee of transparency in the electoral process. But he himself did not say that when he was elected president, there were five thousand machines that were part of the election process. And let us still take into account the audit that has been carried out by the Central Election Commission, and it has been said that there are certain deficits in the implementation and implementation of the engine vote. Here I fully agree with what Georgi Markov said because there is no country in the European Union to introduce the engine vote. That is why we have adopted an approach for the gradual introduction of machine voting so that we can actually give the necessary guarantee to the opposition that we even agree at times to apply their ultimatum demands to stop this speculation that in Bulgaria the elections are not transparent. I can remind them that the current Central Election Commission was appointed in 2014 by the then-run BSP and then Prime Minister Oresharski, who had a direct attitude as head of the executive power, to conduct the electoral process for the European vote. Then, in fact, we showed that no matter what the rules of the Election Code are, we accept them and actively participate in the electoral process. We won this election by 11%. But let us remember and not forget a moment that really gave the opportunity to corrupt the electoral process was Kostinbrod, in 2013, when in fact the entire then opposition was saying that the elections would be corrupted. And we remember on the day of reflection, when there was talk of double cases, of carrying out ballots. Let us not underestimate the Bulgarian voter and let us be responsible enough when we come up with such statements. This was a scenario to actually guarantee a professional victory of the then BSP with the bonebrod forgery they made on the day of reflection. If we look at the years of democracy, there has been no day for reflection to be corrupted in such a bad way. Let us also remember what people who have been involved in the democratic process for the past 30 years have also said.... no one for any reason has thought or applied such an approach. Because Kostinbrod and the so-called coup d'état, which was run in the public domain on the day of reflection, was on the front page of all newspapers and all online editions in 2013 on the voting day. But Bulgarian citizens also then did not succumb to this provocation and again gave their support to the political party GERB. Let us recall what happened 2016. Let us remind President Radev that he won the elections and recognised the elections as fair because he won them. We have complied with the will and vote of the Bulgarian voters and we have had absolutely no comments on the fact that the elections in one form or another have been corrupted and are illegal. Let us recall that 2017, precisely with the appointed caretaker government of Rumen Radev, the elections for Parliament were held March 2017 under the electoral rules, with the Central Election Commission appointed by BSP and we won these elections. So it is not an honor for BSP colleagues to make a policy of stubbornness and to claim untruths. Because if we look closely, I was very active in my appeal, just to get acquainted with the motives of the president's veto and to get acquainted with the transcript of the Legal Commission's review of the Election Code. And then, and now, when yesterday the president's veto was viewed, the position of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court was very clearly expressed, who categorically said that he would only stand on the side of law and would not want to enter any other political controversy. He's honored that yesterday there was confirmation of what he said two weeks ago. What was stated categorically by him is that according to art. 120 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria all decisions of the Central Election Commission are appealed. What was created as a feeling in society that we have removed judicial control was a well-directed and well-spoken false news so that even analysts who in the years had imposed an objective opinion and filled the time in the morning blocks, even they themselves said that these possibilities for judicial control over the decisions of the Central Election Commission had been taken away. Just to remind them that what we have done as proposals between first and second readings was based on what we have as case law, and when we are legislators, we should always take into account the expert opinion and improve the legal framework that is in line with the most transparent process that there should be in the judicial phase. That's why we have decisions that have been made. And this yesterday was stated by representatives of the Supreme Administrative Court that actually judicial control had it. And at the time of the first instance, we have a three-member court which will have more opportunities to gather evidence so that it can rule objectively and can actually, if it is judged, re-apply this decision of the Administrative Court by district, then have an appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. No one on any occasion was talking about the substance, not even the president, and what was launched in the public domain is that there is no judicial control. I believe that with today's support for the Bill, we are giving a very clear sign that we distinguish ourselves from such false statements. Unfortunately, however, the Presidential institution has also entered this situation, which has once again shown that it is not the President and it is not the Presidential institution that has overparty behaviour, and here we have to talk about the fact that the President and the Presidential institution have become the spokesperson of the Bulgarian opposition in the face of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and perhaps as the only representative of the opposition strong speaking of BSP in the only institution that is the Presidential institution because we already see from parliament that they have been deprived of this opportunity and preferred not to come to work. For what was also circulation in the public domain, for the so-called vote in the Central Election Commission with two thirds, however, no one was saying what the opinion of the court and the caselaw was. Because until now, when there is a decision of the Central Election Commission with two thirds and when it is submitted to the Supreme Administrative Court, and there is an appeal, then in fact the Supreme Administrative Court comes up with a decision and with the respective pre-Ki, which, unfortunately, are not feasible because someone believes that the decisions of the Court can be taken as decisions by the Central Election Commission as a consensus. The consensus cannot be sought when we have a judicial act when there is a decision of the Bulgarian court and we know that there simply must be a decision and that is why this position is being taken, which is currently being defended in the Election Code, which we have accepted, can be taken by a qualified majority of all members who are in the Central Election Commission. In this way, these decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court will be implemented because so far these decisions are not being implemented and the electoral process is short and ends quickly. Here are the things that had to be debated by the Presidential institution and actively involved in this debate. Unfortunately, however, we did not hear such comments, even no one commented on the constitutional Decision No 4 of 2011, in which our respected Professor Drumeva participated. But now we see that in the Presidential Institution and when you are a representative of the Legal Department of the Informal Leader of BSP, of course you are already taking political rhetoric, not legal arguments. What is also extremely important is to stop this speculation with preferences. Because first, let's be clear that our country currently has a proportional system. The proportional system, it is that political parties have their proportional systems. Let's say that every single Member State in the European Union has taken a different approach, with ten of the countries in the European Union being a fully closed, proportionate system. Five countries of the European Union have preferences, and in most of these five countries, the preference is the burden of the mandate, whether for Parliament or for a municipal councillor, because we are talking again about political parties and proportionate systems. We can't tie the preference to the majority system here. The majority system is something very different. Let's say that the Grand National Assembly was elected by proportional and majority: 200 MPs majority, 200 Then, as has been said by the former constitutional judge Georgi Markov, the communists or the new socialists have decided that this will not be profitable for them and so have passed on to a proportional system. Let us remind ourselves that there was a return to the majority system, partly that was 2009, April. Let us recall that this approach was then also adopted by the BSP, which partially introduced the majority element. Some are worried about majority participation. I can say that I feel satisfied enough that I had the opportunity 2009 to be elected as a majority MP from the Fourth Multi-Mandatory Election Region "Veliko Tarnovo," and to be the leader of two proportionate lists in Varna and in Sofia. I have to tell you, there's nothing to be afraid of. It's just that responsibility and commitment are much greater to the respective voters who choose us. I believe that BSP is very insincere when they say that they have violated their rights by reducing the preference because they themselves do not want a majority element and a majority system. They also proved it with their vote when they rejected the proposal of the political party GERB for voting on a majority system that corresponds to the referendum held, where they gave their vote over 2.5 million Bulgarian citizens. I think that in this way we will be able to actually respond to the substance of today's debate on the President's motives and, of course, I regret that the Bulgarian Socialist Party is absent from this debate. I am convinced that many of my fellow Members would now like to take part in this debate, but because of the sole decisions and the lack of democracy in a party, of course, single government leads to dictatorship. I do not think that BSP and BSP members and sympathizers want the model Venezuela. I don't think BSP wants to see the Bulgarian Maduro in the face of President Radev [[Applause from GERB]] which fully guides Venezuela into a single regime and we see what are the positions in support of the Venezuelan regime. That is why, honourable Members, I can say that, on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB, we will vote for the Law and against the veto of the President, but if we can from the parliamentary tribune and on behalf of the parliamentary group call on the President when preparing his motives, his assistants will also get acquainted with the stenograms not only of those who speak from his party, the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which took about 10 hours of parliamentary time in the debate, but to comply and hear what they say, both the Supreme Administrative Court and the Central Election Commission. Because the issue of machine voting and the change that we had in the debate, which was only two weeks ago, was based on the Report from the Central Election Commission, and we always want to have transparent, objective elections, and Bulgarian citizens to be the ones to determine who should be elected and represent them both in the Bulgarian Parliament and in the European elections, as well as in the local elections. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues, I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 14 February 2019. Please vote. [[Noise and lines from MPs failing to vote.]] Colleagues, if you decide, we'll have a re-election? Vote 154 MPs: for 154, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code has been re-approved. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of receipt of it under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Mr. Nenkov couldn't vote, but I think he voted for him. That's what he said. Moving on to item two on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE INNOVATION OF NONFASISTS INEUROPIA AND BULGARIA. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include as a point in the forthcoming program of the National Assembly for the period 6 March 2019. A draft decision on the increase of neo-fascist events in Europe and Bulgaria, with reasons for it, No 954-02-2, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u101	Dear Madam President, I am taking the procedure in the manner of conduct to address you with a request, as in the procedure provided for in art. 88, para. Four semesters, not a single committee has done its job. Please order the Quaestors to distribute the draft decision to all MPs so that they can get acquainted with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u102	Of course, Mr. Hamid. The Quaestors, please give out the reports to colleagues in plenary. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, so you can brief us on the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u103	Madam President, honourable Members. I will give you the reasons for the Decision Project on the increase of neo-fascist events in Europe and in Bulgaria. The reason for this decision is the beginning of almost 80 years after the beginning of one of the darkest and darkest periods in the history of the world, the genocide committed by the Nazi regime over the Jewish people, this crime against humanity, which cost 6 million lives. The International Holocaust Memorial Day - January 27 - reminds us of the valuable lessons of history, but also the mistakes that must never be made again. Today, in the context of a spiritual crisis, when the world is becoming increasingly intolerant of differences in religion, ethnicity, nationality, and even to different cultures and lifestyles, it is essential to make systematic efforts to prevent Bulgaria from losing its image as a tolerant country with a European face. In the years immediately after the black pages of world history, when anti-Semitism, hate speech, relations to differences can be defined as controlled and as if no longer standing on the agenda, a different trend has been imposed, which is very disturbing. In recent years, neo-Naziism has seen disturbing growth in a number of countries, especially in some places in Europe. Adding to the topic the trends arising from the problems of society on a global scale, dealing with the refugee wave from the Middle East, Asia and Africa, strengthening the danger of entering radical, extremist, fundamentalist and extreme ideology, the emergence of groups based on the ideas of controlling one group of people over another, and the harsh violation of human rights, the picture becomes even more alarming. The vote by the Bulgarian representatives in the European Parliament on Resolution of 25 October 2018 on the rise of neo-fascist violence in Europe is a ray of hope and a vivid example of Bulgaria's value orientation, which should be followed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, history must be remembered, which means that often the lessons of history itself must be recalled. Especially in a country like Bulgaria this is very important because Bulgaria itself experienced the period of fascism with the persecution of Jews. Just because they weren't taken to death doesn't mean they weren't harassed. Some have been forced to leave their homes, others have been forced to leave Sofia in general, third to other places, stolen property, men were sent to work camps. I will also recall that dark-blown Law on the Protection of the Nation. We must remember the regimes that bore these crimes, because there is no difference between fascism and communism. In one case, people were chased with only one suitcase, and in other cases people with only one bag. Today it is discussed if there was fascism, if there was no fascism. Well, isn't that fascism that's happening today, fellow Members?! Today we reward legionnaires defending the fascist regime with orders. Today, Bulgaria, a member of the European Union, allows a neo-Nazi event such as Lukov March. Today, graveyards are being corrupted in Bulgaria. Today in Bulgaria in broad daylight during celebration of a holiday a synagogue is trampled. Besides, all that happens in Vojvodinovo is also fascism to chase at minus temperatures with all the furniture on the street. Dear colleagues, this is not a celebration of the law, it is a celebration of the antihuman regime. On several occasions, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms appealed to stop these things. There's no result. The Sofia Municipality decides to end and prevent appearances, only with incorrect motives, and this is rejected by the court and at the same time the Ministry of Interior protects and protects them. We want this decision to show that the Bulgarian Parliament is united in condemning any form of genocide to anyone, for whatever it was. In this sense, I repeat, it was also the European Parliament Decision of 28 October 2018 that every totalitarian and authoritarian state, every totalitarian and authoritarian regime must be condemned. That is a principle that we must observe. That is what the democracy of a country is all about. This is a test of the democracy of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Therefore, this project is also to draw conclusions about the democracy of one or another structure. Political parties hiding behind their reactionary nature and defending national socialism and fascism, we call them political surrogates. This draft decision is a test of democracy not only of the National Assembly, but of the democracy of every MP in this National Assembly. This is a test for anti-human parties in Bulgaria, anti-European parties in Bulgaria and anti-NATO parties in Bulgaria. Before I finish, I will give two vivid examples: when a month ago in a small town in France, Jewish cemeteries, over 500 thousand people, honourable colleagues, went out into the streets of Paris in protest against rising fascism. The next day, President Macron introduced a new law against anti-Semitism. And since yesterday, Emmanuel Macron's statement reads: "Europe must be liberated from fascist movements and from fascism. A united Europe must protect the European values of human beings. And I refer specifically to colleagues from GERB last week there was a special round table at what level are the European values in Bulgaria. The conclusion is that a fundamental European value is man, not the state and government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear importers of the draft decision, I will start with the form of the proposal. You are submitting a decision, not a draft declaration. The National Assembly shall adopt a decision on activities which have no legal character but shall resolve specific issues. With the adoption of the decision and its implementation, the desired legal consequences are implemented and it is exhausted. If there is a permanent solution to a problem in this case, appropriate changes to the laws must be made. We would discuss all the proposals for changing legislation in this area that the opposition has proposed. We believe that results can be achieved, not requests that do not have the necessary effect. Based on the content of the Project Decision. The draft decision on the increase of neo-fascist events in Europe and in Bulgaria, as it is called, contains really many valid tracts concerning important plays on the harmonious development of Bulgarian society, as well as the need to strengthen prevention measures against acts of racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. The Bulgarian Government conducts a consistent policy in this direction to prevent public appearances that fuel extremism in all its socially dangerous forms, including religious, ethnic, political basis, as well as discrimination against minority groups and people with disabilities. Spreading hate speech and incitement to violence in the public domain as a whole, especially on the Internet and social networks you are talking about in the Project of a solution, a priori is not tolerated by authorities at all levels, with state authorities partnering with civil society to resolve these issues and to have prevention. The proposed draft decision is based partly on documents that contain these and conjectures concerning political parties and other civil organisations that have legitimate participation in the Bulgarian public life. Some of them have been mentioned in negative terms by the Report of the European Commission against racism and intolerance since 19 June 2014, presented in the present National Assembly, broadcast according to the will of the Bulgarian citizens. This fact cannot be ignored and should not be ignored. In this regard, the National Assembly should not join the qualifications contained in the above-mentioned documents. This would undermine Parliament's authority in view of the one-sided negative associations made to legitimately elected political sites and entities. In particular, in the wording of the Decision, so as not to say that I am only speaking for general reasons. In the operative part of the project in point 2, we do not accept the claim that fascism, racism and xenophobia are a normal phenomenon in Bulgaria. According to the letter "o" the texts are thus numbered, we recall that Bulgaria is from the few European countries that have a special law and formed a Commission for Protection against Discrimination, which is entitled to sanction the perpetrators of any discriminative actions. This has been highly appreciated by the Council of Europe and we have been set an example for other countries. The project also contains some of those that open potentially significant issues without, however, any clarification or options for solutions. Examples are the claim of a continuing revival process. The revival process has been terminated, his victims have been rehabilitated and in a declaration of 11 January 2012. The National Assembly has consistently condemned him with 115 votes for. A book is referred to in the letter. We recall that in the coalition agreement of the majority in the Forty-fourth National Assembly, including the party "Attack" and in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, members of the Council of Europe have been accepted in the Conservative Group. We accept that their conservative identification, which, in our view, extends the support for the European path of development of the country, i.e. their identification, extends this support. In PACE all Bulgarian MPs have signed declarations that they share European values. We GERB respect this volition of theirs. On the occasion of the application in point 11 to the law enforcement authorities, we stress that the Criminal Code has adopted criminal groups with severe sanctions for their perpetrators of the alleged crimes. In conclusion, we believe that such a declaration should be examined by the National Assembly after careful editing and reaching consensus by the parliamentary groups, if possible. Such an approach can lead, instead of confrontation, to broad agreement in society to reject any manifestations of political, ethnic or veritable extremism. The Bulgarian people have shown in the most difficult periods of their history that they can show solidarity with ethnically religiously different fellow citizens. The examples that were given by Mr. Ibryamov for the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews during the Holocaust, another example which was not given to the asylum of thousands of Armenians fleeing the genocide in the Ottoman Empire, the tolerance in the 17th century to the Pavilions and Bogomils who then accepted Catholicism, as well as the definite condemnation of the revival process and rehabilitation of the repressed during communism, are only part of the examples in this regard. We believe that in such a declaration these examples should be mentioned and should be followed by young people and they should know them. That is why we are also working for a greater display of these examples in the curriculum. Given what I have told you, I believe that the draft decision should not be supported. We undertake to participate on our part in making a declaration on the subject and, if judged, changes in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u106	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. - What's the line? Mr. Karadaye, first line. Second line, Mr. Letifov. We're gonna run out of duplicate procedure, and I'm gonna take 30 minutes off, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I have listened carefully to you about the form, the ideas and the possible solution, which I am sure you will support, to have lasting effect. Eventually, if such matters should not be resolved by a decision of the National Assembly, they should be resolved by law. I'm giving you examples right now. Several bills, colleagues, including the consequences of the revival process, which still we live them, are systematically rejected by GERB. Currently, dear Mrs. Grozdanova, in Bulgaria still those who were forcibly changed their names are required a document for identity of the names. These bills you reject, although, as you said, there is a condemnation of the revival process. More than that. The deceased, whose names have been changed, today these deceased or their successors must apply to restore their names, but no one has had the opportunity to ask them when their name has been changed. Another point is that the heirs today have to draw documents for them as well for identity of the names.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u108	The weather, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u109	From this point of view, I would ask you, in this spirit of tolerance, as you have completed your speech, not to use our own actions for demagogy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Mr. Letifov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, I couldn't understand how you could stand to say all this, given your understanding and your soul, which we very much respect, because they coincide with our purely valuable understandings, but yours were untenable. You have done one task to protect your coalition partner, because otherwise we must all go together. Just to remind you, Mrs. Grozdanova, I absolutely agree with you that yes, the United Patriarchs are here at the will of the Bulgarian people, but they are in power at the will of GERB! These are different things! These are different things and we have to make that difference, we have to. Next moment. When in 1989 this democratic population won democracy and fought against the communist regime, it turned out that its rights were not protected to a day that is 29 years later, and once there is democracy, do you claim that it should not defend itself again? On the contrary, democracy is being defended and validated by all our actions. This is such an action to strengthen democracy, these principles and the principles of tolerance, which are very vulnerable. It's a fact. Let me remind you of something else, Mrs. Grozdanova, about the guaranteed rights that you said all that was in the revival process was rehabilitated. But just to recall a week ago the press conference at which our esteemed prime minister and constitutionalist Mr. Markov argued that they were actually able to hold back from having a pep talk in their mother tongues, they boasted, but, you see, this was not taken into account in society. Is this how the effects of the revival process have been rehabilitated? Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Third line, Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u113	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Grozdanova, we understand that you are really unprincipled, but in one you are right that GERB is really leading a very consistent policy in this government, where it gave the opportunity to two Deputy Prime Ministers from those parties who are called.............................. by the European Parliament with a resolution, by law. Congratulations on that thing. It is these two deputy prime ministers who instill the language of hatred. Thank God one of them is already out of government, and they continue to instill a language of hatred, intolerance, fascism, racism, xenophobia. I'll give you a specific example from a week ago. An appointed Deputy Regional Governor in Lovech District publishes on his own page, I will quote, and is still in power: "After you consider yourself a Bulgarian and not just a temporary resident in Bulgaria or a Bulgarian citizen, the mother tongue is Bulgarian. That you changed your faith during the 500-year Ottoman presence, you do not know what we were free of in 1878, why we celebrate March 3rd and accepted another faith does not make you Turks. If you still consider yourself Turkish, then the question is: what is a Turkish party doing in the parliament of Bulgaria? Under these conditions you go to Turkey and the Turkish language automatically becomes a mother tongue. Simply and logically. " And you are telling me that in Bulgaria there is no intolerance, no xenophobia, no fascism, no rematchism! Mrs. Grozdanova, your principle has really become unprincipled. I'm sorry, but this is not exactly what I expected from the Political Party GERB! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mrs. Grozdanova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! It's hard to answer lines like that. Mr. Karadayi, I guess I'm right that we should work more to change legislation than political demands and propaganda that don't work. [[Replys from DPS: You don't work! You are voting against.]] I see. Dear Mr. Letifov, politicians have tasks and they should normally benefit voters. I have a hard time fulfilling tasks without having an inner conviction about it. Democracy is something that needs to be supported and worked for, it is not a given, and this must mostly be understood by our children, and we should know by now. I can't help but defend the coalition partner, because through him the state works for better or for worse. [[Applause from the DPS. Noise and lines. Voices by DPS: "Bravo! "]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u117	I've been listening to statements on behalf of our constituents all day. Let's still hear better what people want outside and not make politics on their backs. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u118	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Colleagues, we will proceed with the point after the break, which will be until 12.10 p.m. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. Previously a charity exhibition of paintings and scarves made by students from the Professional High School of Textiles and Fashion Design. It will be opened at 11.30 in the eastern couloir of the National Assembly. The reason for the exhibition is: Children help children. The funds collected from the sold paintings will be donated to children deprived of parental care. Please come to the opening. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u119	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the meeting and the speeches on the draft decision. Statements? Mr. Karadayi, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Taking into account basic acts of international organisations of the European Union in the area of human rights and freedoms, and in particular what is laid down in art. 2 of the Treaty on European Union that the Union is based on values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, as well as on respect for human rights, including the rights of persons who belong to minorities, bearing in mind that these values are common to all Member States, bearing in mind what the Europol Report 2018 report shows, that there is an almost double increase in 2017 in the number of persons detained for extremely right-wing extremists and xenophobic groups and political parties are inciting hatred and violence in society and reminding us of what they have been able to do in the past, recalling that even now, in the case of restored names, people are receiving official documents of the names imposed by the State, taking into account that neo-fascists and political parties are using and abuse in society and reminding us of what they have been able to do in the past, recalling, even now, even in the case of re-established, The draft decision is also in the spirit of art. 30 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights that nothing in the Declaration can be interpreted as conferring a right on a State, group or person to engage in any activity or to act towards the destruction of the rights and freedoms proclaimed therein. We introduced the Project on January 30th, and today is March 6th. Until now, no commission to which the draft decision has been assigned has been delivered within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 88, para. 4 gives 15 days. The committees are silent. Madam President, so are you. But this silence cannot change the facts, and they are what they are. We will not be silent and demand that this draft decision be adopted by the National Assembly. On the eve of the elections for the European Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and all of us as MPs must clearly and categorically condemn the language of hatred and any form of racism, fascism and xenophobia, call on all responsible institutions together to oppose nationalisms and populisms in the country and in Europe. [[Reply from the People's Representative Pavel Shopov.]] Thus, the National Assembly will show how attached it is to European values, how it complies with European acts. Freedom and peace are not for granted, nor is democracy, and they have never been. They must be won and defended daily, every minute. The efforts of any individual party are not enough without the unification of all the systemic parties sharing European values. By the way, that's in the motto of the crest. Let us oppose hatred, racism, fascism, populism and nationalism! We must, if we care about the irreversibleness of democratic processes, the stability and security of the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u121	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u122	...the rights and freedoms of European citizens, including Bulgarian citizens. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not save efforts for a better and prosperous, strong and united, peaceful, free Europe. This is what we call for all nationally responsible parties, the government and all responsible institutions. The vote for the draft decision is also a test for democracy and sharing of European values, not only in Brussels, but also with actions here in Bulgaria, as well as a test for your attitude towards minorities, including Muslims, or you only lie to them during elections to vote for you and then systematically and consistently work against them. The adoption of the proposed solution is an important step in protecting peace and democracy in Bulgaria, the region and Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u123	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. A line? Mr. Ibryamov, a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u124	Madam Chairman, colleagues, Mr. Karadayi! I'm taking a line. You rightly pointed out that the Project for a Decision has been tabled in connection with the Holocaust Memorial Day (January 27th), and the valuable lessons of history should be remembered. From this tribune, colleagues from GERB, we heard a declaration, a pompous declaration. But those were just words, the actions are gone. But even more importantly, Mr. Karadayi on 10 March is the Day for the Salvation of Bulgarian Jews. There will be a special procession featuring the president of the World Jewish Congress Ronald Lauder. And I am sure that prominent politicians from supposed European parties will be on the front lines. This shows the true face, and there will even be a signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation and Partnership "Together for Bulgaria, together for Europe against hate speech." Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Karadaye. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ibryamov, I just want to remind you: this is not the first time we will witness some words and reverse actions from some of the political formations! It is no coincidence in the public domain that the assessment is such that some parties have morals of double standards or have a double standard of morality. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Any other speeches? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We should first say that neither fascism nor national socialism nor Bolshevism or communism can have historical and political rehabilitation. And there is agreement on this, both in the modern world and in Europe and in Bulgaria. But we are witnessing today a change of words, of their meaning. Speaking of fascism, there is now an understanding of everything that somehow goes away with left-wing liberalism, dominating certain minds and certain policies. Today fascism turns into stigma, into a label against anyone who is different, who thinks differently from the superliberal understanding of universal individualism as a supreme social phenomenon and value. Often, anti-Semitism is attributed to fascism, although Mussolini and his fascist party differ greatly in this ideology and this policy of national socialism and Germany. Today, however, this declaration makes a compilation. It steps on some European unmistakable values and makes one conglomerate of accusations against all who are different or contrary to the DPS. And I will allow myself to quote point three of the decision and I will tell you why we cannot support such a thing: ..Jews, Muslims, Roma, third-country nationals. And there's a little fucked-up abbreviation here, but I'm gonna read it all: lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals, and finally on duty, disabled people and their mothers. This sentence seems to begin from the era of the medieval Inquisition and to the System kills us today. But the essence of the whole declaration is in the last paragraph, in which the connection is made here is only about Bulgaria, here it is not about Europe. There is a connection between atrocities during World War II such as the Holocaust. And this means that in this declaration we, the National Assembly, will recognise that the Bulgarian state has empathy with Hitler's antihuman anti-civilization plan for the destruction of a nation in Europe. Neither our then statesmen nor anyone has ever done such a thing! And we from the United Patriarchs will not do it for a symbolic even reason: that there, in our room, is a desk, and above the door is the name of the Sub-President Dimitar Peshev, who is of the majority, this fascist majority, as you say, organised a petition of the MPs in March 1943 against his own government, against the deportation of the Bulgarian Jews! And this is because four Kyustendilians, including the member of the IMRO Central Committee Vladimir Kurtev, arrive in Sofia and place this question before him. We will not be able to support and will be opposed to such wording. Not to mention the thesis on the ongoing revival process, which practically links today's, democratic, European Bulgaria with the totalitarian regime of Todor Zhivkov, without saying anything about left extremism, about the moving Bolshevism in Europe. Because here, from this tribune, one MP was talking about the creative period of socialism, while others are talking about the People's Court and killing the political elite of our country. In conclusion, we should say that this declaration is practically an element of the DPS election campaign. She wants to accuse all Bulgarian state and political factors in a continuing revival process, apropos in a continuing fascist regime, one that never existed in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u129	Thank you, Professor Mihov. - What's the line? Come in, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Associate Professor Mihov! Apparently, the election campaign for IMRO started today. Congratulations! Dear Associate Professor Mihov, with your preparation you have also given meaningful examples, you have also given examples in which the state and the statesmen have indeed behaved dignifiedly. But that's not the case today. There are examples exactly in the opposite direction. But don't deny that there are all regimes, not just Communist totalitarians, including the others you mentioned, which we condemn in this decision, not a declaration. We brand everyone, there's no double standard here. And the next moment, Mr. Mihov. Do you deny that our children, who are already in the stadiums, have swastikas, symbolizing a regime of nearly 100 years ago? Isn't that a crawling extremism? Isn't that the introduction of a denied ideology? There they are, Mr. Mihov. Don't close your eyes. I think you will find reasonable arguments to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Second line? I can't see. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u132	Thank you for the line. As for the election campaign, we have a rule that it started the next day after the election. I think that's your rule, too. Yeah, in the stadiums, in the streets, if you walk a little bit here on the right, a hundred meters away, you'll see that it's crawling with souvenirs, symbols of national socialism, along with the red flag with the sickle and hammer, along with the portraits of Stalin and the KGB. Yeah, there's that. But let's not forget again the story there you have a true sentence: the story must be known that fascism, and national socialism, and Bolshevism came to Europe because of the crisis of liberal democracy, the crisis of liberal governance. The Weimar Republic died by election! The National Socialist Workers' Party of Germany came along a parliamentary path and established by parliamentary, constitutional path the Hitlerist dictatorship. This is the big problem that what you are saying is telltales about what we need to change in the political system. We of the United Patriarchs say that the return to the old values of Europe, of European civilization, of Christianity, of nations is the way forward, not the repetition of mistakes. Thank you. [[Replying, partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u133	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote a draft decision on the increase of neo-fascist events in Europe and Bulgaria, No 954-02-2, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 30 January 2019. They voted 119 MPs: 25, against 25, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW ON SOCIAL SERVICES. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2018, was adopted at the first vote on 18 January 2019. Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u134	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova, Elena Kremenlieva, Director of the Social Inclusion Directorate, and Tonislava Sotirova, Head of the Department of Social Inclusion at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u135	Please vote on the procedure so made.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u136	Voted 103 MPs: 98 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u137	On 11 December 2018, a report on the Social Services Bill No 802-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 18 January 2019. The Social Services Service Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u138	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u139	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u140	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of Chapter One. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u142	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u143	Under art. 2 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, p. 6 after the words "useful" and "representative" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u144	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. Vote 94 MPs: 5 against 56, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 2. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u145	Under art. 3 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 is created a new para. 3: The social services can be implemented by:.Supporting in the home environment.Supporting in the community.Support in the community.Support in the community.Support for the acquisition of skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills.Support for the acquisition of labour skills. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u146	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 7, against 63, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 3. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u147	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Social work Art. 4. Social work is an activity that is based on human rights and social justice and is aimed at supporting the individual, family, groups or communities to improve their quality of life by developing skills to use their own capabilities and those of the community to meet their needs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u148	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 4. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u150	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 5. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u151	Under art. 6 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 after the word "supposed" is added by social workers, medical and other specialists depending on the necessary competence. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u152	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova, not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 12, against 59, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 6. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u153	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u154	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 7. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u155	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u156	Statements? I can't see. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 8. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u157	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, para. 2 after the word the person (s) shall be added and recommendations shall be added by the competent authorities (s). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u158	Are there any speeches on the proposal not supported by the Commission and on the text of the importer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 6, against 69, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 9. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u159	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: The Sistemic place of art. 10 is in Section II - Specific rules for the provision of social services. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u160	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova, not supported by the Commission on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: for 6, against 71, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer on the Commission Report on art. 10. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u161	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: "Contribution to the use of social services Art. 11. (1) Social services shall be used only by order of the court and only in cases defined in law. (2) There is no mandatory use of social services for resident care by adults.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u162	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 11 on the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u163	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I am empowered to make the following declaration. It is on the occasion of the Law on Religions and the amendments in it, and, of course, not least of the statement made by the President of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, Mrs. Ninova, in order to reject any doubts, we want on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Council of Rights and Freedoms to tell the whole truth about the Law on Religions, on this question, the financing of the denominations, which concerns and what is the order under which this should have happened, and especially to Ms. Ninova, who said today that she defines the rejected vote of the President as another deal, especially with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, takes into account the deal of GERB: the price of this deal that she was looking for in the parliamentary agenda at Friday. I remind Mrs. Ninova, the plenary and everyone who sees that the decision to finance religion in Bulgaria was taken on two consecutive advisory councils on national security with the President in 2017, following the relevant reports of the relevant services that the Chief Mufti was financed by the relevant service in the neighbouring country. The payment of the ministers in this religion is taken into account and that this constitutes an dependence and danger to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. This decision has been taken with the agreement of the President, with the consent of all political parties and with the consent of Mrs. Nino. As a result of this decision, reaffirmed at the next National Security Advisory Council, because none of this was implemented on the first, and at the insistence of Mr. President, the procedure for changes to this religion law aimed at financing the main religions was initiated in order to eliminate and break any dependence on foreign countries that concern the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Was Mrs. Ninova there? Were there all those who opposed the Law the whole time that it was viewed in the Commission and in the Chamber? They were! Did they put national security above their party interests? Are they putting national security above their party interests today? Of course not! [[Noise and lines.]] What kind of deals are we talking about here? We adopted the Bill and rejected two very important things in it, which we now have to correct because the Bill is not working. The main religion in Bulgaria, the Orthodox, received its money, the priests had their January and February salaries, and those who received funding and salaries from the Republic of Turkey did not, because at first reading in the Chamber were rejected the proposals that would guarantee this. One of the proposals is to explicitly mention who is the owner of the respective religion, which will receive the claim. The second proposal was related to a practical party to the implementation of this decision by the Advisory Council on National Security, namely that the Muslim religion has public obligations which are the result of accrued contributions, but which have reached the stage of execution. Any financing of the public budget faiths will be followed by an appropriate procedure in which the funds will go back to the state budget through a bailiff, as provided for in the Law. So what we have done here by rejecting the amnesty in question, we have made it so that the mechanism for financing faiths does not act and, basically, with regard to the Muslim religion, on which the proposals for amendment and supplement of the Religions Act in the funding part are adopted. Now what? In the Commission and in this House we will have resistance against this. Okay. I would very much like, on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group, to state that the financing of Main Mufti in the wage part is not a private party issue of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It's a matter of national security calibre, and the decision on it has been made that way. And if we want to do it all the way, we have to do it so it's operational. The mechanism is effective and effective, not here to play politics on the back and at the expense of national security. And I appeal to Mrs. Ninova, who is not in the Chamber: "A little overreacted, Mrs. Ninova, and it is good to go to Mr. President and ask him: is this a matter of national security, or is it an agreement of the DPS, or a bargaining agreement of the DPS? "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is not going to accept this issue being dealt with as a party issue of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Or we'll all take care of national security, [[Applause from DPS]] Or we'll leave it as it is right now. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u165	The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following name of Chapter 2
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u166	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put the name of Chapter 2 to the vote. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u167	Under art. 12 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 2, c. 1 after the word "society" is added "uses" and "society" is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Public and specialized social services Art. 12. (1) The social services shall be generally available and specialised. (2) Public social services are services for: 1. information, consultation and training for the realization of social rights and the development of skills provided for a period not exceeding two months; 2. Mobile preventive community work. (3) Specialized social services are the services provided in: 1. the occurrence of a certain risk to the life, health, quality of life or the development of the person; 2. the need to satisfy a specific need for a particular group of individuals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u168	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 69 MPs: 11 against 52, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text for art. 12 in the version of the Committee on the Report. Vote 67 MPs: 66 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u169	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u170	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 13. They voted 63 MPs: for 63, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u171	Under art. 14 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. children in conflict with the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u172	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva, not supported by the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 1 against 67, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 14. Vote 78 MPs: 77 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u173	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 is created t. 11: "11." substitution care. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 are created t. 11? 13: "11." replacement care; ..12. social care; "13." employment and professional re-adaptation of people with disabilities. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dora Yankova and Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 is created t. 11 with the following content: "11." warm lunch. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u174	Are there any statements on these texts? I won't. Firstly, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva, not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 4 against 61 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 2 against 65 abstentions 10. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Dora Yankova and Georgi Gokov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 4 against 70, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 15 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u175	Under art. 16 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 is "4." more than three years for children with long-term disabilities and for elderly people of non-laborable age. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u176	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva, not supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 3 against 72 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 16. They voted 83 MPs: 82 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u177	Under art. 17 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: I7 is created. 6: Social services may also be carried out in medical facilities in the event of a need for support of the person requiring an integrated health-social service. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: "Secretary services" means social services. Art. 17. (1) Depending on the environment in which they are provided, the social services are: 1. services in home environment; 2. services in a specialized environment; 3. services that are provided mobilely. (2) Resident care shall be provided only in a specialized environment. (3) Assistant support shall be provided according to the personal needs of persons, not limited to their home environment. (4) All social services may also be provided on a mobile basis where this does not conflict with the quality standards laid down in the Regulation on the quality of social services and where no specialized environment is required to be provided. (5) Social services under art. 15, p. 1 s 5 can also be provided mobilely in: 1. medical establishments; 2. institutions in the system of pre-school and school education; 3. nursery; 4. places of support for children with disorderly conduct; 5. centres for persons seeking and/or receiving international protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u178	Thank you. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? There are no speeches. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 2 against 75 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for art. 17. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u180	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the supported text of the importer for art. 18. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u181	The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following title of Chapter Three: State and local authorities and social service providers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u182	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put the name of Chapter Three to the vote in the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u183	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u184	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Section I, art. Art. 19, art. Art. 20, Art. 21 which the Commission supports. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u185	Under art. 22 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. 3 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." c. 2 is amended as follows: "2." licenses providers of social services that may be natural and legal persons, as well as persons from another Member State of the European Union. 2. in t. 3 after the words.......................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: "Agency for the Quality of Social Services" Art. 22. (1) The Executive Agency for the Quality of Social Services to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall be established to monitor and monitor the provision of social services. (2) The Agency for the Quality of Social Services shall be a legal person of budgetary support to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and shall be managed and represented by an Executive Director. (3) The Agency for the Quality of Social Services shall: 1. supervise and monitor the provision of social services; 2. licenses the providers of social services; 3. make proposals to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy for the development of regulatory standards and criteria for quality and effectiveness of social services; 4. provide methodological support for compliance with the statutory standards and criteria for the quality of social services; 5. develop criteria for the analysis of good practices for high quality and effectiveness of social services, select such practices and propose their validation at national level; (4) The activities, structure, staff size and organisation of the work of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services shall be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u186	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. They voted 83 MPs: for 6, against 68, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 22 on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u187	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u188	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 23, which the Commission supports. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u190	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II by importer, supported by the Commission, and art. 24, which the Commission also supports. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u191	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25, para. 2, p. 7 after the comma after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u192	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva. Vote 84 MPs: 2 against 70, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 25, which the Commission supports. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u193	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u194	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 26, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u195	Under art. 27 has a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Rumen Genov, Galya Zhelyazkova, Nikolay Sirakov and Julian Papashimov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: The Social Services Board shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation. Art. 27. (1) In each municipality shall be established a council on social services, including representatives of the bodies and persons under art. 26, t. 7. (2) The Social Services Council shall: 1. assist in carrying out analysis of the needs of social services at municipal level and analysis of the state and effectiveness of the social services provided on the territory of the municipality; 2. develop proposals to improve the quality and effectiveness of social services provided on the territory of the municipality; 3. perform other functions assigned by the municipal council. (3) The composition of the council on social services shall be determined by a decision of the municipal council on a proposal from the mayor of the municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u196	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 27 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u197	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u198	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III and the text of the importer of art. 28, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u199	Under art. 29 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 29, para. 3 t. 3 the word "Private" is replaced by "others." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u200	Statements? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. Vote 76 MPs: for 7, against 62, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 29, supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 82 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u201	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: supposed providers of social services Art. 30. Private social service providers may be: 1. Bulgarian natural persons registered under the Commercial Law and legal persons; 2. natural persons engaged in business and legal persons registered under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union or of another Member State of the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u202	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 30 on the Commission report. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u203	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: "Licensing" Art. 31. (1) The persons referred to in art. 29, para. 3, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 30 may provide social services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria after a licence is issued by the Executive Director of the Agency for the Quality of Social Services. (2) The persons referred to in art. 29, para. 3, p. Art. 2 and Art. 2 30 may provide all social services for which they have a licence issued. (3) The persons referred to in art. 30, t. 2 which, under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union or of another State of the European Economic Area, have the right to provide social services within the meaning of this Law, are not subject to licensing when performing these services once or temporarily without establishment on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u204	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 31 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u205	The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u206	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 4 and for the name of Section I supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u207	Under art. 32 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: By way of exception, in coordination with the Agency for Social Assistance, the maximum number of users under para. 2, p. 4 may be increased for a period not exceeding two months for children at risk. 2. The current al. 3 becomes para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u208	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. They voted 83 MPs: 8 against 70, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 32, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u209	They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u210	Under art. 33 has a proposal from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions shall be made: in the heading before art. 33 the words "Planning" shall be inserted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u211	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 2 against 79 abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 33. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u212	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u213	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 34. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u214	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u215	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 35. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u216	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u217	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 36. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u218	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u219	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 37. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u220	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u221	Statements? There are no speeches. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 38. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u222	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u223	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer on the Commission Report on art. 39. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u224	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-03-06.u225	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 40. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, thank you for your work and efforts today! The National Assembly's work continues tomorrow at 9:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
