ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u1	I'm opening the meeting. My fellow Members, I propose to your attention a procedural proposal to move points into our Programme for this week. I propose that point 6th of the First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on concessions submitted by the Council of Ministers become the first point for today's meeting 5 July 2019. Point 9 "Hearing of the Minister of Health on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the current state of the health system in Northwestern Bulgaria, with importer Daniela Daritkova, to become the second item for today's meeting. I propose that the hearing of the Minister be conducted within the framework of parliamentary control. As soon as we finish item one, the hearing and parliamentary control will begin. Please, voting mode. They voted 150 MPs: 119, none against, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'd like to introduce you to a message. It is from the vice-chairman of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria "Mr. Dragomir Stoynev: On 2 July 2019 the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) voted on changes in the leadership of the parliamentary group as follows: He released Anton Kutev as vice-president and member of the leadership. He released Christian Vigenin as secretary and member of the leadership. He elected Pencho Milkov, Dimitar Danchev and Alexander Simov as secretaries of the parliamentary group. On the basis of art. 14, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, please reflect the changes in the register of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. The Committee on Legal Affairs report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019. At its meeting on 26 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Tourism Mrs. Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister, and Ms. Ekaterina Datsova Director of Maritime Beach Management. The bill was presented by Mrs. Georgieva, who pointed out that it aims to create a special comprehensive framework of concessions for a sea beach site service, and the overall framework must be in a special law, and added that the inclusion of the procedures for the award of a concession for a sea beach service within the scope of the Law on concessions is contrary to art. 10, t. 8 of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts and it is therefore necessary to establish a concession scheme for sea beaches in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. She noted that by transposing Directive 2014/23/EU into the Bulgarian legislation by means of the Law on concessions, the legislator aligns concessions without cross-border interest with concessions with cross-border interest, the estimated value of which is more than EUR 5 548 000. The concessions are proposed to be granted and controlled by easier rules and by flexible national legislation. Mrs. Georgieva emphasized on the special laws governing concessions, the object of which is exclusive state property, and added that precisely because of the specific subject matter and the focus of the public interest it is necessary to settle concessions for sea beaches in a special law, namely in the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. The Law proposes changes concerning the award of concession, which are close to the rules described in the Law on concessions, but in line with the specific mandatory activities on sea beaches and the provision of additional services. The new § 4 and the amendment of § 5 aims to overcome the legislative emptiness and settle the transitional periods in which a decision to initiate a procedure has been adopted under the repealed Chapter 2 of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast for the award of concessions for sea beaches until the entry into force of this Act. This bill regulates the conclusion of a concession contract for a sea beach service, its implementation, amendment and termination, as well as the conclusion of a contract with a sub-contractor. Control activities shall also be regulated in such a way as to allow efficiency in the reporting of compliance. For outstanding issues related to the strategic development and planning of concessions for services on the sea beach, the financing of the activity and the National concession register, as well as the appeal of the concession decisions, the Law on concessions is intended to apply. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Mitev said he will not support the submitted bill, adding that there is no need to create a special order to award concession on sea beaches. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that he would support the submitted Bill due to the legal vacuum created after the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, but noted that there was no sustainability in the legislation regarding the concession award of sea beaches. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, 2 votes against the Council of Ministers, and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Nenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers At an extraordinary meeting held on 2 July 2019 the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019. Mrs. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, and Mrs. Ekaterina Dazova, Director of the Maritime Beach Management Directorate at the Ministry of Tourism took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Angelkova. The Law aims to create a comprehensive arrangement of concessions for sea beaches, with matter included in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, by analogy with the specific regulation in the Water Act and in the Underground Treasures Act. With the transposition of Directive 2014/23/EU into the Bulgarian legislation through the Law on concessions, the legislator has aligned the system of concessions without cross-border interest with concessions of cross-border interest, the estimated value of which is more than EUR 5 5 548 000. The sea beaches' concession could not have reached that amount. It is therefore proposed that concessions should be granted and controlled by easier rules and by flexible national legislation. The Law proposes amendments to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, concerning the award of concession on sea beaches, which are close to the rules laid down in the Law on concessions, but in line with the specific mandatory activities on sea beaches and the provision of additional services. Control activities shall also be regulated in such a way as to allow efficiency in the reporting of compliance. For outstanding issues related to the strategic development and planning of concessions for services on the sea beach, the financing of the activity and the National concession register, as well as the appeal of the concession decisions, the Law on concessions is intended to apply. The proposed changes also address the legislative emptiness and settlement of the transitional periods in which a decision to initiate a procedure under the repealed Chapter 2................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ During the discussion the representatives of the National Assembly expressed principle support for the bill, while also raising a number of questions to which the representatives of the Ministry of Tourism answered. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 3 July 2019, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32. The meeting was attended by: Minister Nikolina Angelkova from the Ministry of Tourism and Ekaterina Datsova Director of the Department of Maritime Beach Management. The bill was presented by Minister Nikolina Angelkova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is the creation of a special comprehensive framework for sea beach service concessions; the achievement of full compliance with Directive 2014/23/EU; overcoming gaps in the Law on concessions; the relief of administrative burdens and the creation of the possibility of reducing the duration of the procedures. Sea beaches fall under the exceptions under art. 10, t. 8 of Directive 2014/23/EU where it is explicitly indicated to which services the latter does not apply. The inclusion of concession procedures for a service on a sea beach in the Law on concessions is contrary to art. 10, t. 8 of Directive 2014/23/EU and therefore a reference is proposed in the Law on concessions to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. In this regard, new provisions are proposed in the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, as in a new chapter the award of a concession for the sea beach. The rules for the conduct of an open procedure for the designation of the concessionaire are laid down; the sites subject to concession; requirements for the concessionaire; the obligations of the Minister of Tourism and the Council of Ministers in the process; the Commission's actions for the organisation and conduct of the open procedure; requirements for the documentation for the concession of the sea beach; rules for the conclusion or termination of the concession procedure; requirements for the content of the concession contract. Other new chapters define the provisions for the execution of the concession contract; the sub-contract; the modification and termination of the concession contract; the current control of the execution of the concession contracts concluded. The bill provides for forty percent of the amount of the concession fee and forty percent of the rental price to be paid as revenue under the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. The current change in regulations is expected to create a lasting business environment and to be a prerequisite for increasing investment in the sector. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriarchs" asked questions about the categorization of the beaches, about the prices of the other services on the Black Sea coast, about the total number of beaches and the rent-out and concession; about the problems so far in the concession process, about the reasons for the weak tourist season 2019. National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov raised the issue of the growth of tourists on the Black Sea coast in recent years. National Representative Dimitar Boychev expressed an opinion on the need for categorization of the beaches in order to determine differentiated prices in view of the attractiveness of the beaches. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following: STATEMENT: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019 [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Shopov, then Mr. Boychev. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, the topic is not new for us from Ataka. The last edition was in 2014 "2015," when we supported this position, which is currently being proposed to be adopted. Then and with our enormous efforts and, I think, thanks mostly to our position, the percentage in the available and preserved part of the sea shores on the beaches was changed. And from 80% the free zone became 50%, as long as it is respected, of course, with huge problems, but still many remarks can be made in this regard, but it was then a great success. It is a pity that the current situation could not be introduced, because many of the problems that exist at the moment with prices, with depraved phenomena, with curious cases, the press thunders, televisions show prices, fabulous amounts for a sunbed, for an umbrella. If the state had been firmly involved in the role, as it is now proposed, I would be responsible for and care for this asset of my own, of course, wouldn't be the case. Because there were going to be control mechanisms, and it starts with them in the proposed law, and all that we regulate today would not be left at the mercy of known and unknown municipal councils and mayors, vague municipal councillors, forces of some of which it is, in general, one of the last mute territories that has remained in the country and from which they need to be cleared. This can only happen with the rule: more state. And here our position wasn't random. We at Ataka have always stated: more, more state-like in contrast to that liberal and very fatal to all of us, Bulgarians, a message from the beginning of the transition: less state. The issue is highly ideological.. it is a question of basic views and concepts, a question of choice... to whether society effectively through the strongest mechanism the levers of the state will be able to influence public relations. This way and in this connection we cannot leave things alone. That's what they were until now. So there were beaches that were left without concessionaires, so there were wars between concessionaires, wars between consumers and concessionaires, so it came to the situation and situation that we are in at the moment. But it is. We from Ataka offer and give a solution, for 15 years we have declared our positions, time passes, at first these messages of ours, these views are met by a knife. You see, it comes to ours, it happens. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your efforts in this regard. We know that it has not been easy for you in this regard. And now there are obstructions, and now there are attempts to stay the same, but I hope today the plenary will overcome and solve another problem before the state because of all the national wealth and assets we have very few left. The Bulgarian beaches are those few assets we still have left. Let's get a hold of ourselves and treat them like good owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, honourable Members, we will support the amendments made to the Law in this way. They are in the context of the requirements of the Directive, as well as to make a more flexible regime for granting the beaches a concession. In my opinion, there is something very important that must be added to the Law, and this is the categorization of the beaches. What do I mean? In our Black Sea coast there are about 270 beaches, of which about 144 are given in the form of concessions and rent. In my opinion, if we don't do the categorization, these beaches will still remain as many as are given in some form, and the others that are not given will still not be given. What do I mean? At the moment the pricing of beaches is under one formula, my thought is that pricing is the same for all beaches. Whether they are attractive or beaches that are located in less attractive places, the formula that they are priced by is the same. We offer the Ministry of Thoughts in this direction to do so in order to have a much more flexible regime of dedication and to have much more beaches to be given under concession, to make a categorization so that, again, there can be a different pricing, because it is clear that there are attractive beaches. Those who are located in the tourist complexes, those who are located in the territory of the Black Sea major cities, they are more attractive and, naturally, they are given and will be given again. But beaches that are located in more unattractive places, with this pricing, I think there is no way to give, so it is very important to do, to make different categories of beaches and hence the possibility to have different pricing. I would also like to draw attention to one more moment that we think is important. I am a representative of the Black Sea region and I have been told by the mayors their desire to take the beaches and in some form to claim them on a concession, whether they rent, but therefore they are placed equally with all other participants at this time and have no opportunity to take the beaches, so I think it is important to think about it in this direction, because there are mayors who have, again, I say, they have declared a desire to manage the Black Sea beaches. Currently, the focus on the media and what we are looking at is different pricing, different offers of sunbeds and umbrellas and therefore they do not correspond with the price of the bed, for example in the regions concerned. I can give you a very good example from Burgas Municipality, which managed the central beach of Burgas for four years. The service was absolutely free of charge, of course, the municipality could afford it. Very well maintained beach, just really beach for example. All the opportunity given to place sites to accumulate economic revenue was occupied with sports facilities, in the sense that this strip, which was managed by the municipality of Burgas, did not accumulate any economic revenue, but was exclusively in good service, which was provided to people. When we give municipalities the opportunity to manage the beaches, they can do whatever they think is best policies and much more flexible they can manage the beaches. I would therefore like to draw attention to the Ministry to really think about it in this direction, because Black Sea municipalities are municipalities with opportunities and are flexiblely able to manage resources. Naturally, the beaches are one of the important elements in our summer tourist product that we offer. Thank you for your attention. We will support the changes at first reading, but we pay attention to these accents, which, in our view, are important and must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u12	Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear President of the National Assembly! More than 20 years ago, a group of sociologists from the University, we did a marketing study with a very large ambition for consumer attitudes, consumer culture, marketing research for the Black Sea coast. And you know, always past the research, the formal part of the question, when you're involved in this stream, you learn informal information. Then, twenty-something years ago, we found out something very interesting. It was a long time ago. Back then, there was a period in which they would be given on concession beaches. I think it was about Sunny Beach. And from the word of a glass of soda or beer with local people long before the concession ended, we realized that the central part of the beach in question was for some guys, the North part was for others, and the South part was for third guys. We missed that, we did marketing. It turned out, after the competitions came out, that this was true.. these people knew what was happening. It turned out that many serious companies with experience in maritime concessionation by Smolyan, Sofia and Samokov were then honored to manage these beaches on concession. Colleagues, more than 20 years later, I found out, again by accident, not interested in the situation being the same. She hasn't changed, but at some point there's an upheaval...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u13	Guys, there's a lot of noise in the room. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u14	... Madam Minister, thank you for your preliminary meeting with our parliamentary group. You're putting in a lot of effort. No minister has so far treated us as opposition. We will support you in every action, but I want to tell you that you know the metaphor, if years ago the lizard was tearing its tail, that, my colleagues, was when the lizard was little. It is now a dragon that swallows whole sectors of the economy, including yesterday's vote. Madam Minister, colleagues, if we do not radically and dramatically change the principle of management and management of something that is exclusive state property, and we create them through the concession private rights for a long period of time, Bulgaria will disappear from the map of tourism. I don't know what to do. Let's think about it, let's think about it at the second reading, let's eliminate the concessionation of the beaches, let's give it to the municipalities. We cannot establish on exclusive state property private property rights for a long period of time, provided that the investment is not that large. It is one thing to have a concession for underground wealth, the second is to have a concession for oil, gas, and another is to claim that you need a concession for umbrellas and sunbeds, because Bulgaria will lose. It already loses competitive advantages, even works in fierce competition. Only an hour by plane and two hours by car there are paradise corners, Madam Minister, where there is no note for BGN 11.50. for a bottle of mineral water. It's only an hour by plane! We do not have the right to spend what nature has given our country, because in my opinion, all dependences on the accumulation of capital since the beginning of democratic times in Bulgaria have been designed and designed a little more expanded in the tourism of Bulgaria. I know you're collecting about $18 million. lv. in my memory of concession contracts, fees and contributions on an annual basis from the Black Sea coast. Yeah, but on the other side, there's a few billion dollars in revenue. The State must decide whether the 18 million is important to it. lv. Or more important to her is the several billion, which I say that if we find the good solutions together, it can be many times more. This is Bulgaria's competitive advantage, which we spend, I do not know for whose benefit, however. I'll tell you why we need a new model. We need a new model in both healthcare and roads, both in social and regional policy, obviously also in tourism. We need a new model of state because with this attitude towards exclusive state property and what Bulgaria has, we will not get anywhere. At the same time, I think it is not the work of the Ministry of Tourism, Madam Minister, in the middle of the season in July, first, to gather together and think about how to save the season. Season's gone! Secondly, you cannot do checks on people with contracts and ask them why their prices are so low when their contributions to the state are quite high. I'll give you an example. I looked at it in the media, shared by several users on beaches about the size of the contribution and what they owe for the season. In a free market economy, no control body can verify why your price is so high. To conclude, I am absolutely convinced that the market will arrange prices and where they are high will become low because there will be competition. However, colleagues, Madam Minister, honourable MPs, until the smart ones are in their senses, the madmen will go mad. Everyone thinks they can make some quick money from 20 years back in the summer on the back of tourists, but this is already starting to happen on the back of the state. If we do not take radical measures, including not to concessionate, but to conclude contracts under the control of municipalities that are sustainable to manage, the state to respect and control how they govern these territories, I believe that Bulgaria will be at the beginning of a huge loss of competitive advantage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Do we have any lines? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u16	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Minister! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, what you have missed, perhaps mentioning in your speech, which I would like to draw your attention to, is that beyond all that you have said, which is, of course, true and admiring at every point, is that this law that we are looking at today is actually changing for the 13th time in the past few years. Every law, as you know, must regulate lasting social relations. We ask ourselves what are these lasting social relations that change literally several times a year. Of course, the results you were talking about are not late. We can't expect business to be reoriented every year with several changes to this law. Just two weeks ago, we changed the Black Sea Coast Construction Act and some of the members that we will now review again in this bill have been changed and edited several times in the Committee on Regional Policy and, as you know, there is a veto imposed on them by the President. I draw attention to what you said, Mr. Kostadinov, that the beach is the key to summer tourism, the key to quality and the price we all pay for the tourist service on our summer seaside resorts. So when these beaches are dirty, noisy, overcrowded, when prices on them are impossible for the average person in our country, for the average tourist, then we cannot expect that the 5-star hotels on our Black Sea coast and other tourist sites will be filled and will have the appropriate workload. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one sentence, Madam President! I note that you have neglected to mention that this topic is of particular interest and will be under increased control and surveillance by the European authorities. Because among other things, the beach is also an external border of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Is there a second line? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u18	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Danchev, thank you. Unfortunately, I have to tell you this. When we were in power, we didn't find the right solutions. That is what we must say clearly, honestly and responsibly. We have had the opportunity to resolve this issue, but we have not come out of this flow of thinking that has led us to the same results for 20 years. It is my job as an opposition member to criticize the Minister's actions, but it is also our job to support all the sensible things that we can do together right now. We are abstaining here on specific changes, but such changes need to be resolved in part now. I want us to think seriously at second reading, and why not next time we review how to get out of this model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Daritkova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the time limit for written proposals under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Master Pharmaceuticals, No 902-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2019, to be extended by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u21	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 132 MPs: 129, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u22	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am pleased that we are still having a productive discussion, as the dedication of the Black Sea beaches and the management of our Black Sea coast has always been a cause for serious discussions. It is a fact, and what those who speak before say it really has its reasons. It is true that the necessary balance and the competitive environment in which we find ourselves undoubtedly plays a major role and it is very difficult, despite the serious efforts made by the Ministry of Tourism and the State at all. It will be increasingly difficult to be truly competitive because people can travel freely anywhere. With the development of infrastructure in particular, of course, it becomes even easier for a user to look for different options for spending during summer holidays. The fact is, however, that the state is making great efforts. The very fact that at the moment there is the Ministry of Tourism something that has not been in the years shows the will of the state this sector to be a priority. In line with what I'm saying, so is the Bill. It aims precisely at a more flexible policy and enables the Ministry of Tourism to be more flexible in terms of providing concessions for services for Black Sea beaches. They are coming from the memory of what was in the Commission and what Minister Angelkova had provided as information " 39 beaches should be granted in the next 2020 concessions. There are laws, for example, the Law on the Use of Mineral Water, which specializes and is specifically in this direction; there is also the Law on Underground Treasures, which specializes in the granting of concessions to these natural riches. That is why I think and we will support the Bill, because he, in terms of appropriateness, is looking for this necessary power resource at the Ministry of Tourism, to be more flexible and to be able much easier in the coming months, if you will, to start and complete these concessions, which I am talking about so that it does not turn out to be a number of beaches, as colleague Boychev said just now, which would be unassisted. This means, respectively, costs to the state. On the contrary, the costs must be not at the expense of the state, but for those who are going to concession, and for those who are going to collect revenue from this thing, while also maintaining the necessary balance, there should still be free zones and so on what it has always fought for. Colleague Kostadinov said and I believe that in the future competition gives birth to the best conditions. I am convinced that even these reports on concessionaires for different prices, which every summer at the beginning of the season, in the long term, this will decrease. Because simply the competition in the market is very strong or we will comply with it, rather economic operators, or simply, however high the cost of the accessories or services they provide, ultimately if they do not have consumers, has absolutely no meaning, nor will they benefit from this activity. Apart from complying with the European Directive, which has already been cited, the fact is that the beaches cannot and cannot be compared with granting concession to an airport, port or anything else, nor are they of any interest to national security. I believe that for the beaches the Ministry of Tourism should be more flexible and shorter. There are also purely legal issues arising from a legal vacuum in terms of concessions and procedures that hang in the air for which there is no order in which to be completed. So I think the bill is in the right direction. Naturally, there must be something to be desired between the first and second votes, so I hope, as the productive discussion has begun today, so is the desire of colleagues and the Commission to support the Law, to continue, so that we try to make a well-functioning law so that we can give the Ministry of Tourism more opportunities to cope with this difficult task and increasingly emerging competition on this market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, No 902-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 June 2019. They voted 147 MPs: 116 against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. I thank Minister Angelkova! Declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of the political party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! I am honored today on behalf of the Political Party GERB to celebrate the professional celebration of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Today is no ordinary professional holiday for the Ministry of the Interior today is the 140th anniversary of its creation. Today all those boys and girls serving Bulgaria now and before and in time, who 365 days a year, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day take care of the peace of all Bulgarian citizens. Today we must respect their work with a great thank you and remind them that their service in the name of Bulgaria is duty and vocation! Let's thank their families who are deprived of their presence and... [[Noise and excitement.]] At least keep quiet in their honor, because for each of us in the hall, in our families, in our hometowns, in our hometowns, there comes a time when we rely on these boys, these girls and these employees. And if we can't show them respect here today, I don't know what we're counting on. Therefore, on behalf of the Political Party GERB and on my behalf, I want to thank you and tell you that I have great respect for your work. I have the honor of calling you colleagues, and this is extremely important to me. Thank you, colleagues, for being at your post even now. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Colleagues, Minister Ananiev is on his way to the National Assembly. Since Mr. Manev beat Mrs. Angelkova and she wanted to say a few words to the MPs, I now give her the opportunity, as I understand it, to thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u26	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for your productive discussion and for your support at first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions in the management and management of sea beaches. I am extremely supportive of each of your comments. It was yesterday, after actually having had another meeting with the representatives and the concessionaires and the entire sector of hotels and restaurants responsible for offering a good and quality tourist product, that we united not only around the idea of launching a more serious and strategic debate on the overall development of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, because we do not want to think again in one direction whether we should only categorize beaches and which beaches, as we have discussed it many times, but through the prism of what tourism products we would like to offer on the Black Sea coast, so that Bulgaria should be a competitive tourist destination. The status of national resorts is also of great importance because they are the image of Bulgarian tourism. So we will initiate a very broad debate with you, with all the stakeholders, and I hope for active participation and proposals so that we can draw up the steps that are needed and what legislative change should be made in which laws so that we cannot work in a piece and have a comprehensive and sustainable approach, taking into account what has been done over the years. Yes, the fact is that there are many problems, but the fact is that a lot has been done. What is important is to find the balance in order to have the competitive and correct development of the Bulgarian tourist product on the Black Sea coast, because I am very angry when I see this whole negative campaign, which is extremely affecting the image of Bulgarian tourism. Thank you very much for your support and I hope for a fruitful discussion and proposals between first and second readings. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u27	Thank you, thank you, Madam Secretary. You have seen the outcome of the vote, which registers your support. Good luck! Dear MPs, we are waiting for the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev and we will interrupt until he arrives. At 10:00 we continue the hearing of the Minister of Health. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u28	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next item on the agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF HEALTH OF THE BASIC FOUNDATION. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE ACTUAL SITUATION OF THE HEALTH HEALTH SYSTEM IN NEIGHBOURHOOD BULGARIA. Welcome, Minister! The procedure implies that the importer of the proposal for a hearing should state the questions within five minutes. Dr. Daritkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u29	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reason for today's hearing is the tension created among the inhabitants of the three districts of Vratsa, Montana and Vidin, as well as among the MPs in relation to the stated intention of restructuring hospital care facilities in the Northwestern region. In this sense, we want the situation to be clarified here today, on the one hand, with the opportunities for access of the population in this area to health services, and on the other hand, indeed with the challenges facing the Ministry of Health, about how equality can be guaranteed for all citizens in Bulgaria in terms of access to medical care. It is important to debate the problems correctly, without politicising and most important not to look for solutions from which in the long term there will be no effect because the healthcare system is extremely sensitive. It does not tolerate any sudden movements, no sudden speeches, no politicisation. The worst part is that when we try to get political dividends out of such problems, I think it is most damaging to the adoption of rational solutions. The challenges are indeed serious because in time we have failed to guarantee equal availability of medical professionals and doctors and healthcare professionals in all regions of the country. I think this is one of the biggest problems we need to think about, because it is with enough doctors and nurses, midwifes, rehab workers that can guarantee access to the population. The remaining commitments with regard to financial security are also important. The discussion also needs to hear what measures the Ministry of Health has taken in this regard, but the most important thing is to really outline in the long term how we will guarantee a service in relation to hospital care only with a turnover of patients, which unfortunately cannot be financed in time anymore. During one of our last meetings with representatives of the Association of Regional Hospitals, colleagues were very concerned that what medical institutions have reached as an opportunity to provide funding through patient turnover, because at this stage it is through hospitalizations and through patients receiving funding the medical institutions that is the maximum. That is to say, we really need to look for perhaps other more flexible mechanisms from now on. On the one hand, to really ensure the effectiveness and quality of the work of medical institutions, but, on the other hand, access must also be guaranteed. Because it is very important that there is indeed a guaranteed presence of specialists in the least distance from the individual patient who, if necessary, can guarantee him a service that will save his life or help his health. I hope that today's discussion will calm the people of the Northwest, I hope that from today's discussion useful proposals will come out which can then be realized, and most of all I hope that the MPs here will unite in their intention to truly make the healthcare system equally accessible to all Bulgarian citizens. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to make an initial presentation and then I hope that the MPs will make today's discussion even more fruitful with supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u30	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. Dear Minister, to remind you of the procedure: you have the opportunity to make your statement on the issues raised within 10 minutes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that part of the team of the Ministry is on the balcony and is present at this discussion, which talks about the responsibility and gravity of this discussion. Thank you for that, and thank the guests! You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Daritkova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What do the numbers show first? According to official statistics, as of 31 December 2018, the total population of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana was 337 051 people, representing 5.4% of the total population of the country. Divided by age groups is as follows: zero years, i.e. babies - 2955 people, or 0.8% of the total population of the three districts; from zero to 17 years of age - 60 856 people, or 16%; from 18 to 64 years of age - 217 720 people, or 57.3%, and over 65 years of age - 98 474 people, or 27% of the total population in the region. The analysis of the age group shows that in the districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana, the population in the young ages from zero to 17 years of age is less than the national average, and in the high ages of over 65 years is significantly greater. The relative share of the active population in the age group between 18 and 64 in the three districts is less than the national average. The total number of persons with continuous health insurance rights on 1 June 2019 of the three districts is 325 729 people, which is 5.5% of all health insured persons in the country. As far as medical personnel are concerned. The total number of doctors in the three districts is 626, which is 3.7% of the total number of doctors in the country. By districts, respectively: Vidin District. 105 Doctor, Vratsa District. 305 Doctors and Montana Region. 216 Doctors. The total number of healthcare professionals in the three districts is 1352 people, which is 4.8% of the total number of healthcare professionals in the country. By districts, respectively: Vidin district, 196, Vratsa district, 631, and Montana district, 525. In terms of extra-hospital help. The activities carried out in outpatient medical care provide basic medical services for the population related to diagnosis and treatment in outpatient conditions of the prevailing morbidity of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases; diseases of the respiratory system, of the digestive system and other diseases. With regard to hospital care. On the territory of Vratsa District, Vidin and Montana there are 19 hospitals for hospital care, including: three multi-profile hospitals for active treatment, i.e. JSC with more than 50% state participation, one in each district city; six municipal multi-profile hospitals for active treatment; four specialized hospitals; three private hospitals; one center for skin-venerical diseases; one center for mental health and one complex oncological center. In terms of investments. The budget for 2019 for the Hospital of St. Petka "Vidin" is planned funds for capital expenditure of 570 thousand. BGN, for: purchase of digital graphic x-ray apparatus lv.; purchase of autoclave for central sterilization and water cleaning system lv.; repair and furnishing of the psychiatric ward............................................................................................ lv. According to the budget of the Hospital of Sofia, funds for capital expenditure of 1 million are planned. 299 thousand. 500 leva. for: repair of an angiography room - BGN 59 500; for the purchase of the angiographer.. 770 thousand. lv.; for the purchase of haemodialysis apparatus and haemodialysis chairs lv.; repair and reconstruction of the AG ward - 280 thousand. BGN, and purchase of mandatory minimum equipment of the judicial medical department..... 40 thousand.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. lv. According to the budget of the Hospital, Montana is planned funds for capital expenditure of 310 thousand. BGN, for: supplies and installation of medical equipment and equipment for the Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Treatment and the Department of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine - 180 thousand. lv.; repair and furnishing of the psychiatric ward lv. What did the meetings with the head of medical institutions show? Vratsa. Positive are the trends and expectations for revenue growth by more than 30% in the next quarter after the installation of the angiograph and renewal of the work of the vascular surgery department. After the repair of the Auxero-gynecological department will increase the capacity of the work and improve the conditions for the implementation of the activity and for patients, including in the field of oncology diagnostics. Mechanisms will be sought to find additional doctors in emergency care units, imaging diagnostics and resuscitation; actions will be taken through future investments, to move the skin ward and to implement the hospital's non-operative assets; the potential of the residents will be used as much as possible at this stage 19, in the various specialties and health care professionals, which will take place directly from the institution of the hospital in Vratsa; they are conducted by the Ministry of Health and are in an advanced phase the negotiations for granting a bank loan, which will eliminate the accumulated problems in the service of the remaining overdue liabilities to creditors, which are over 8 million. lv. By means of a bank loan, the hospital has consolidated the amount of residual debt and it is serviced evenly, there is no risk of props. However, there is a problem with medical professionals who are tied to the lack of income. In improving the work of the health care facility by finding specialists, doctors and healthcare professionals, potential new revenues will provide an opportunity to increase both staff costs and improve the specialization and qualification of doctors. Due to lack of personnel, for example, the Anesthesia and Reanimation Department does not operate at full capacity, as well as the Departments of The Departments of Physical Therapy and the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology have a potential for development, but also a key factor is the availability of prepared personnel. Additional importance is the reduction of birth rates. To date, there have been only 100 births in the hospital since the beginning of the year. The shortage of doctors in the Internal Diseases Department is serious, Phtysiatry and Pytholic Diseases. However, during the merger of the two wards it will be possible to find medical professionals who can provide complex treatment to patients in the internal disease field. Finding residents and new doctors is key to the medical establishment, given the strong competitive environment in outpatient care and the migration of staff to other university and neighbouring centers. In Montana, activities develop effectively and in full capacity, there is only a shortage of urologists. The medical establishment is the only one in the field with regard to a number of activities that are found in the second level of competence structures. Ladies and gentlemen of the above mentioned data and as a result of the meetings with the heads of medical institutions in these areas, the following conclusions can be drawn: the search for solutions for the future of health care and in particular hospital medical care is a matter of conducting a horizontal policy for the whole country not only for hospitals in the cited areas. How do we work in this direction? By the end of this year there will be new medical standards, new algorithms of clinical pathways, a new National Framework contract for medical and dental activities for a three-year period, rules for good medical practice in all fields of medicine. Along with this, we will invest in ambulances and construction through European funds in order to strengthen emergency medical care. We are conducting a new policy in the field of specializations, which I have presented and will present to your attention. We are also actively working with the Ministry of Education and Science for an annual increase in admissions for medical students and health care professionals. I have daily conversations with bankers and creditors about paying back the accumulated back millions of levs of overdue debts. I started a debate about a new model in health care. Please give health care a chance to heal with joint efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u32	Thank you, dear Minister. We are addressing questions from the parliamentary groups. First, the group of GERB party. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u33	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Ananiev, I would like to ask the following question: please provide more detailed information about the state of hospital care facilities in the three designated areas of Montana, Vratsa and Vidin, as these are areas occupying a small part of the territory and, as you said, about 370 thousand residents, of which 325 thousand are insured. Please provide more detailed information about medical facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u34	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer to a question on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u35	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Alexandrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The total bed fund as of 31 December 2018 is 2480 beds, representing 4.6% of the total bed fund in the country, which amounts to 52 thousand 663 beds. In 2018, 113 thousand 708 patients passed through these hospitals, representing 4.6% of all patients who passed through the country. The hospital report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 shows that 46 thousand 862 patients were sent to other regional health insurance funds: from the Regional Health Insurance Fund Two multi-profile hospitals for active treatment in Vidin district hospital in Vratsa and municipal hospital in Belogradchik, with a common bed fund as of 31 December 2018. 335 beds, representing 0.6% of the total beds in the country. In 2018, 14 thousand 909 patients passed through these hospitals, representing 0.6% of all patients who passed through the country. The use of the bed fund for 2018 in the Hospital.St. Petka "Vidin" is 63.5% and the hospital "Belogradchik" is 23.1%. In Vratsa there are three multi-profile hospitals for active treatment: a district hospital in Vratsa, a municipal hospital in Byala Slatina and one in Mezdra; three specialized hospitals in the city of Roman, Mezdra and Vratsa; a complex oncological center in Vratsa and two private hospitals in Vratsa with a common bed fund on 31 December 2918. 1181 beds, which represents 2.2 per cent of the total bed fund in the country. In 2018, 51,000 823 patients passed through these hospitals, representing 2.1% of all patients who passed through the country. The use of the bed fund for 2018 is: the hospital Hospital.St. Ivan Rilski.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In Montana there are three multi-profile hospitals for active treatment: a district hospital in Montana and municipal hospitals in the town of Berkovitsa and Lom; a specialized hospital in Varshets; a private hospital in Montana with a common bed fund as of 31 December 2018. 964 beds, which represents 1.8% of the total bed fund in the country. In 2018, 46 thousand 976 patients passed through these treatment facilities, representing 1.9% of all patients who passed through the country. The use of the bed fund in 2018 in the Multi-profile Hospital for Active Treatment.Iliev.. Montana, is 69.2%; in the Hospital.Berkovitsa "55.2%; in the Hospital "St. Nikolai Miraclemaker"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next, an opportunity for MPs from the BSP parliamentary group. Here you are, Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I have listened with great attention to you about the state and realization of the processes in the health system in the Republic of Bulgaria. The main word that was repeated was the word I was going to say. I do not know what will come out as the final result of this. I would like with my question to remind you of several fundamental principles that govern, regulate and implement the health care system in the Republic of Bulgaria. Three are the main pillars, and these are: the legal norms governing public relations in the sector; the specific knowledge and traditions of the sciences "Medicina" and "Farmation"; and the third, of course, is the financial resource through which the first two pillars are realized. I will not concern you with the financial resources, I will only mention the well-known truth that the annual financial resources coming into the National Health System on the basis of 2018 exceed 10 billion. BGN, with only the public is more than 5 billion. lv. In a few words, I will remind you of what can be done now, not in the future, based on the rules adopted by the National Assembly and laid down in the Law. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 3, p. 3 of the Health Act explicitly states that the Minister of Health directs the National Health System and controls the activities of ensuring and sustainable development of health activities in medical and health institutions. In accordance with art. 29, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions is explicitly stated that the needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care are defined and planned on a territorial basis through the National Health Card through which national health policy is implemented. It's written there and what's the range. Last but not least, it is explicitly written that the National Health Card, including districts such as Vidin, Vratsa and Montana, is based on a methodology established by the Minister of Health. Regional health cards according to art. 30 of the same law is created after an assessment of the needs of emergency primary and specialized outpatient and hospital care. You also have powers in the Health Insurance Act. Everything listed so far, Minister, from a legal and technical point of view, creates real conditions for the practical realization of art. 52 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely [[the President signals that time has run out]] : The citizens have the right to health insurance guaranteeing them affordable medical care and free use of medical care under conditions and in order laid down by law. Therefore, my question to you, Minister, is: once there are legal norms and financial resources to implement the constitutional rights of citizens, you are not fulfilling them............................................................................................ the reason?................................................................................................................................................. You can't realize them, you don't want them or they won't let you? Please answer these questions. Last sentence. If you believe that under current regulations you do not have sufficient authority to implement these rights, then what do you propose? You know that the Council of Ministers is also entitled to a legislative initiative. Really last sentence. The people, Mr. Minister, from Vidin, Vratsa and Montana are also citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and have these constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u39	You know there are protected schools and kindergartens in the field of education. Do you share this idea of protected hospitals in these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A few last sentences we heard, but it was important to hear the justification. [[Heckling]] Please calm down. The point of the matter has been understood, I hope that the extension of time has contributed to this. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u41	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Popov, the citizens of the three districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana are equally important and represent the same care for the Bulgarian government, in general for the Bulgarian political system, as all other citizens on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have well listed all these regulations that indicate what my commitments are, but I am convinced that from the first day I took over this ministry, I am taking a step after a step to improve the system in different directions. You know that from a project to reform emergency medical care that was placed on logs, we made it effective and real, and it is currently being implemented. Secondly, we have built the electronic system for central and public procurement of medicinal products, which is currently gaining the quantities of medicines that state our medical institutions for a two-year period of time. In addition, the big project under the National Health Information System, i.e. the introduction of electronic health care in Bulgaria, is very successful. The other projects that we carry out create a solid basis for improving the effectiveness and control of the healthcare system. Of course, citizens in these three areas of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana have the right to equal access to quality treatment.............................................................................................. Because it is not important to have only one structure in a given region, but to give the necessary quality of treatment to these citizens. My efforts are designed so to structure the health sector, including hospital care facilities, that they have the professional capacity, that is, medical staff, equipment and equipment to treat the citizens of Europe in a way that cures the citizens of Europe. In other words, equal access means equal access to quality health care, not just providing a bed where the Bulgarian citizen sleeps for seven days and is cured or not cured to leave the hospital, to get his money from the Health Insurance Fund and to finish things for the medical establishment, but not for the citizen who had to obtain the necessary quality of medical care. In this spirit were my conversations with the directors of the three hospitals. In these talks, we concluded that there is no need to close wards or clinics in hospitals, and vice versa, there is a need to optimize and stabilize these wards and clinics, such as the main problem, unfortunately, are human resources and medical professionals. And we have identified concrete measures on how this problem can be solved for each of the three hospitals. Furthermore, the other major problem, of course, is the demographic crisis and the reduction of people who go through the medical facility to receive medical care. More than that. In the hospital in Vratsa, not only will we not close wards and clinics, but we will restore invasive cardiology with the purchase of the angiograph and, of course, since there is invasive cardiology, the vascular surgery department should be restored as well. We talked about optimizing inside the staff structure, the wards, increasing the effectiveness of the activities of these hospitals, and in no case, as I have heard in many places as accusations, financial issues have not come first. First of all was the citizen, the patient and the opportunity to provide the necessary medical staff for this treatment, and as you have seen from the Investment Programme, we also provide a necessary resource for the renewal of more sophisticated and modern medical equipment to treat our citizens from these three regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is to bring some clarity to hospital care in the three areas. We found out about the hospital three serious state hospitals and several municipal hospitals that have such a network that can take over the patients in the Northwest, which are already decreasing. I think that our concern should primarily be for public hospitals and for financing and financial assistance......................... with capital costs, or with other financial levers, because I have said it before, without these 28 district hospitals the public health can't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u44	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Doctor Popovski, there are 61 medical institutions in the territory of Vidin district, performers of specialized outpatient medical care in which 152 doctors practice on the profile of all major medical specialities. On the territory of the district of Vratsa there are 130 medical institutions and performers of specialized outpatient medical care in which 189 doctors practice in the scope of all medical specialties. On the territory of Montana there are 91 medical institutions and performers of specialized outpatient medical care in which 202 doctors practice, again in all medical specialties. Outpatient care in each of the three districts has been developed, with doctors and specialists from over 20 medical specialties working in hospitals, such as: internal diseases, cardiology, neurology, urology, obstetrics and gynecology, gastroenterology, pneumology and dysarthria, pediatrics, oncology, orthopedics, traumatology, eye diseases, nephrology and others. The outpatient medical activities performed by these physicians provide basic medical services for the population related to the diagnosis and treatment in outpatient conditions of the prevailing morbidity of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, digestive system and so on. Specialized outpatient care also operates medical diagnostic laboratories that perform clinical laboratory and microbiological tests, as well as imaging studies for diagnostic needs. The high values of registered cancers as well as permanent disability observed in all three areas, low bed useability, the large number of patients targeting other RHIFs indicate that the effectiveness of medical services can be improved regardless of infrastructure security. Primary medical care is also provided. Vidin District. A total of 55 group and individual practices for primary outpatient medical care have been revealed on the territory of Vidin District, of which 48 individual and seven group practices, of which 25 practices have adverse conditions. The number of practices to which the NHIF has paid amounts to ensure permanent, 24-hour access is 55. The number of general practitioners is 61, the number of health-insured persons registered with a doctor is 74 316 people, with an average of 1218 persons per general practitioner. Vratsa District. A total of 97 group and individual practices for primary outpatient medical care have been revealed in Vratsa district, of which 95 individual and two group practices, 65 of them have adverse conditions. The number of practices to which the NHIF has paid amounts to ensure continuous 24-hour access is 95. The number of general practitioners is 99, the number of health-insured persons registered with a personal physician is 145 624, with 1470 persons per general practitioner. Montana District. A total of 59 group and individual practices for primary outpatient medical care, of which 52 are individual, and seven group practices, of which 49 practices have adverse conditions. The number of practices to which the NHIF has paid amounts to ensure continuous 24-hour access is 59. The number of general practitioners is 87, with the number of health-insured persons registered with the doctor being 111 500, and a general practitioner being 1281 persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the problems of health care in the districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana are an emancipation of the problems in our entire health care "sick health care," which awaits its radical steps and reforms. I start with what you did in your main part of the exhibition: give health care in Northwestern Bulgaria a chance. Mr. Minister, if you say what you want to do, we can give the chance to health care and those 380 000 people who live in these areas, of which, notice, 380 000 people expect healthcare and treatment in this part of Bulgaria, with 110 thousand of each third being treated in hospital in the previous year. Right now, because of your idea that has evolved, of course, in recent days, we are questioning what will happen to these hospitals? Understand these people's concerns! That is why we want to think, in principle, about wrong philosophy, a priori, the wrong idea that the most important thing in health care is to monitor the financial result, financial loss or profit. The Minister of Health has one main task of providing access to health care for the people, the population, no matter where they live in the country. They are not interested either in financial results or in which department is at loss and what is not, but are interested in having access within thirty minutes to an hour and being treated when they need it. We therefore think that the deepening regional imbalances are becoming an extremely serious problem for the system, and this case shows these imbalances. In one of the reports of the Health Insurance Fund very soon it said that for example if 30 leva were separated. for treatment per capita in regions such as Vidin, Vratsa, Shumen, Razgrad, Silistra, this amount is 380 BGN. per capita in Sofia. a huge imbalance. So it doesn't matter if hospitals are state, municipal or private, the important thing is to provide a service to the population. But this imbalance can no longer represent the likeness of a gulf. That is why we believe that the main problem is human resources. Then, when you have an analysis of how many people are needed by regions, in separate specialties, we will have clarity in how many compartments can increase the level of competence, how much more money can be made available to offer more clinical pathways and expand their activities. Please tell me, do you have such an analysis, because even Europe knows that there will be a shortage of 970 000 medical professionals for the whole of Europe in 2020, for example? Do you have an analysis of how many specialists we need in specialties for Vidin, Vratsa and Montana? That's the question we want to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u48	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u49	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Jaffer, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will allow myself, for the second time, to say that by performing my function as a minister, I do not put the financial conditions first. That's the second time I've said it today. And I'm asking him to stop speculating because I'm listening to this on mornings and evening blocks. It is important to me that the population of the Republic of Bulgaria receive real health care. That's all that matters. However, the financial issue is important and I will say why. Because for decades, a number of managements of the Ministry of Health before me have accumulated debts. The overdue debts are already over 150 million. BGN, but I have to drink the bitter liquid, I have to eat the bitter fruits of their activity. And I'm doing it! I do it because I have conversations with banks every day. For two weeks in a row I have held meetings with all the banks in Bulgaria, including the Association of Banks in Bulgaria, to make with them a possible mechanism, some financial instruments to reduce this burden on hospitals. Whatever healing program I do, at any hospital, when 10% of the penalty interest flows, nothing is able to help these hospitals and save their financial situation. I have the confidence that I will join the Association of Banks in Bulgaria and look at this problem in a complex way. In the first place are the two hospitals in the Northwestern region.. the hospitals in Vidin and in Vratsa. We're in a very advanced phase of conversation there. So I do not ignore for a moment any of the reasons that led to this state of hospital care. Yes, you are right that there should be a vision for the development of health care. I would like to invite you to stay for perhaps a little more than a week: on 15 July, I will present the health insurance model to discuss, I hope for the last time, and then I will introduce both the government and the parliament in the legal order to make the necessary discussion at this high political level. So I have my vision of where to go and I am convinced that we are going to go this way that I am going to propose. For the analysis of medical professionals, this is an extremely difficult, very important issue. You know that we can't help but give him an answer because it is linked to two other instruments that the Minister of Health has to provide for human resources in the system. One is Ordinance No 1 for specializations, the other is the admission of students in higher education institutions and professionals in health care. Since the Ordinance will become public next week so that we can make an appropriate request for the new school year, we have assigned our National Center for Public Health and Analyses by the end of next week to do this analysis. The National Centre has such an analysis that was presented at the beginning when I took up this post, but I think it is changing by every month, and I want it to be adequate by pointing out the most recent figures [[the President signals that time has run out]] which we must declare. So as soon as the Ordinance enters into force, we will have to have a 10-year period in which to know every year how many students and residents will enter training and how much they will come out and enter our medical facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Today's hearing, unfortunately, is becoming a finding again. I say this with regret because I am convinced that all colleagues who have a very long experience in the National Assembly, and you are aware of the health problems that have been piling up for years. In general, if we need to sum up, today we are discussing Northwestern Bulgaria, and very soon perhaps we will call you to a hearing for Stara Zagora and Burgas. If there is no vision, we at WOLI are aware that you do not need to be a magician, but if you are a Minister of Health, you must have the support and we have stated it when we elected you Minister of Health of the entire cabinet, the absolute, strong political will of the entire government. The problems are piling up for years, we talk repeatedly in both the Commission and the plenary. Two years ago, we said an urgent action plan should be made to solve health problems. I would be happy to attend the meeting you are organizing at the round table, because we expect not just a model where people will give more or less money, but a model at all for reforming this health care. And everything we've been listening to and talking about for two years to say exactly with deadlines: when you predict an electronic recipe and electronic auctions. It's all coming together. Let's tell the truth. At the moment there is another case of social networks being flooded for people who have not actually been in hospital but are given documents for four days stay. We have extremely many such signals, and until we impose control on you, in fact, to impose, because you are the person to be expected to do this to the obvious draining of healthcare funds and apparently from the strong interests that do not allow you to do so fully, to be sincere and to put the problem on the table. These problems will get worse. And you're not exactly drinking the bitter cup, I'm convinced you're struggling with some things, but all the residents of the Northwest right now, as I said, tomorrow and in other cities, are drinking this bitter cup of all the accumulated problems in the state. My question to you is: at this round table you expect us to simply discuss, find again and note what the problems are or will you present us with a really radical reform for a change in the health system in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u52	Thank you for your question, Ms. Taskov. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u53	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Taskova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start with the specific question, although some other things have been said before. On 15 July, I will present my vision for the new health insurance model, which will cover all aspects of a change in the health system. Of course, there will be debates, because there is no way to pass this round table with one: Yes, we agree on that because each one of the models that we presented at the previous round table, and the one that will represent as preferred by us, has its good, but has its bad sides as well. Bad countries I mean in terms of financial flows, commitments, relationships that will have to be honest and frankly told to Bulgarian citizens in order to know from now on how we move forward. Be assured that the conversation will be really constructive, really fair, transparent, with clear trends, with clear results that we expect for change, I hope for good, in the healthcare system. As regards the need to strengthen control in the National Health Insurance Fund and in general in health care, this is the case. You know that we have created the Executive Agency - Medical supervision - which has included a number of new control functions taken according to the example of European countries in which the control is carried out extremely successfully. I hope this works. And the model that I will propose on 15 July in itself leads to an increase in the control functions of the participants in this health insurance process. You can be sure that control for me is extremely important. Inefficient, inappropriate, not to say otherwise, using the funds for me is an unforgivable mistake and I will try to make all the reasons that enable this to happen at this time to be minimized, not to say........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ As far as other hospitals are concerned, I would like to tell you that in the last two or three weeks I have made a tour of a number of district hospitals, I have met with all principals, health professionals, senior nurses and so on. We had an extremely constructive dialogue. I'm impressed with the organization and operation of a number of these hospitals. Don't put under one denominator all district hospitals there are those who work wonderfully. If I have to separate those who need special support, they are four-five hospitals in Vidin, Vratsa, Lovech, Kyustendil, Haskovo. Let me stop here. These are the hospitals that are in the most difficult situation there, we pay special attention, we use all the tools available to the Minister of Health so that we can help them. We have conversations not only with the banks, we have conversations with the creditors on a daily basis, we reschedule the obligations of the hospitals, we manage to reach an agreement with them not to block the hospital's accounts so that they can perform their functions and people can receive their remuneration. All the tools we have as available, we use them. If a year and a half ago, when I took over this post, there was almost talk about the bankruptcy of 20 or 50 hospitals, now I think there is no talking about bankruptcy. There are difficulties, but we will overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Non-members of parliamentary groups shall have the opportunity to question. Is there going to be one? Mr. Panchev, I'm addressing you. There won't be a question. Moving on to the second round of questions. On behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB party, come in, Mr. Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs! You have partly answered my question, which I have prepared, but I would like us to systematise as a whole: what is the insurance of doctors and healthcare professionals for these three areas of Vratsa, Vratsa and Montana; and what is the age structure of those working in the healthcare system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Subev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The age structure of the population in the districts of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana from zero to 17 years is less than the average of the country, and in the high age of over 65 years, unfortunately, it is significantly larger. The average doctor-sister ratio is as follows: Vidin district one doctor, 1.86 sisters; Vratsa district 1 to 2.1; Montana district 1 to 2.43. For comparison: the ratio of doctor to nurse for the country is 1.64. The data show that in all three districts the average doctor-sister ratio is above the national average, with the highest indicator in Montana district. In all three areas, the relative shares of doctors under 35 years of age and between 35 and 44 years of age are lower, and in age groups 55 "64" and 65 plus are higher than the national average. There are significant differences in the proportion of doctors under 35 years of age and in the age group 55 - 64 years in the district of Vidin versus national indicators. With regard to the age structure of nurses, the data point out the following: the share of healthcare professionals under 35 years of age in Vidin District 2.7%, in Vratsa District, the relative shares of healthcare professionals under 35 years of age, and in the 35-year group, 44 years of age are higher than the national average. In the districts there is a deficit of doctors in the following specialities: in the district of Vidin there are no doctors in specialties.Infectional diseases... Medical oncology........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the parliamentary group of BSP Dr. Naydenova. Dear Dr. Naydenova, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u59	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, before your meetings at the district hospitals in the Northwestern region, you said two things. Firstly, the need for complex medical services on a regional basis, and, secondly, the intention of restructuring, change and consolidation of these hospitals. If for the first one we have repeatedly pleaded as a vision, without even ready the new Regional Map of Bulgaria, then for the second events they have overtaken you themselves. What's done is done. All so-called curative plans of the management, managers for stabilization of district hospitals in Vidin, Vratsa and Montana proved insufficient. An urgent intervention of the state is needed when a clearer distinction is made in the concept of ownership and management, owner and employer. Someone had asked the question: why are we constantly talking about limits, restrictions and worries instead of talking about the possibilities of these hospitals? As owner today you declare non-disclosure of compartments, but tomorrow perhaps you will re-place the change for consideration. I prevent myself from paying attention to you on this: any change you consider restructuring, affects the entire structure of a hospital, and not just one, affects those working there, patients, suppliers and citizens as a whole. Not yet started, the process of change can be delayed or hindered. This has already been completed with patience and an application for the intention of leaving work. This makes no sense for the change in hospitals and what has been done will not be in line with what is envisaged, it may even expose regional hospitals to a real risk of inability to carry out activities and to inevitable financial losses. Such a change is needed, a restructuring that lays the basis for a new health consensus model of health care. A transparent, sustainable, adequate and effective model that will reduce existing risks and overcome the collisions between medical activities while maintaining the jobs of medical professionals in residence. The specialities of all three district hospitals are different "where will be going, optimizing and changing assets, restructuring debts, diversification of medical activities or all of this together should be decided at the table of talks indeed, Mr. Minister. And my question to you is: has this change started in the parentheses of the restructuring started because the literal translation of the.Surveillance is.......................................................................... is...................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u60	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u61	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Naydenova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From your entire statement, I have seen many things that coincide with my vision and I do not even see what question I should answer, but if I should take your last sentence at the final I started restructuring all state hospitals from the first day I became a minister. Within two months, we analyzed the financial situation, the human resources, all aspects of the activities of hospitals, all over 60 public hospitals. Even such an analysis we did to the municipal, and in the context of regional health needs planning, we could not help but look at private hospitals as well. But for our public hospitals, for each of these hospitals, we have made a plan to optimize and restructure the operation and in most hospitals this plan has been implemented, and they are currently in a very serious and financial state, and provided with human resources, and without problems in carrying out the medical work. In these several hospitals, which you mentioned, there is indeed a problem. However, this problem is not horizontal. This problem has some regional character and it is related to the demographic crisis, to leaving the population in these regions and to the lack of medical professionals. This problem is interinstitutional. There are a number of issues that need to be resolved from the perspective of the standard of living and of the people of Northwestern Bulgaria, and medical care is one of the elements to be realized. We need a complex of measures both in the field of health and in many other social and economic activities. Yes, I said it a little while ago, and you said it: you really need to make a serious debate about the future health insurance model. I therefore invite you to the meeting on 15 July to put the future development of health care on a non-party basis, because there are no parties in health care, although in the Northwestern region some of the problems are available precisely for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary! I would like to ask you a question: explain to us what is the condition and financial provision of emergency medical assistance in the region Vidin............................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u64	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u65	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Health as a specific beneficiary of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" is implementing a large investment project in support of the development of the emergency medical care system. Part of the approved activities are the following. In particular, the following activities are provided for by districts, as you asked me to tell you: nine ambulances are being purchased in Vidin District, one for each active team in the area. Distribution of ambulances by type: type Distribution of ambulances by city: at the Center for Emergency Medical Care.Vidin.4 units, the branch in Belogradchik..two units, the subsidiary in Kula..one number, the branch in Bregovo..one number, and the subsidiary in Dimovo..one number. Provides construction and repair activities on the territory of Vidin district: Emergency Department in the Hospital "St. Petka" Plc. "St. Petka" Plc. The total indicative value of the construction and repair activities for Vidin district amounts to nearly 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. without VAT. Vratsa District is planning to purchase 12 ambulances, one for each active team in the area. The distribution of ambulances by type: type Distribution of ambulances by city: at the Center for Emergency Medical Services.Vratsa.Five pieces, in the branch Byala Slatina two pieces, in the subsidiary Oryahovo one number, in the subsidiary Mezdra one, and in the subsidiaries Kozloduy, Krivodol and Roman one by one. Provides construction and repair activities on the territory of Vratsa district: The Emergency Department in the Hospital.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The total indicative value of the construction and repair activities for Vratsa district is 2 million excluding VAT. The district of Montana is envisioned to purchase nine ambulances for each active team in the area, with the distribution of ambulances by type as follows: type Provides construction and repair activities on the territory of Montana region: The Emergency Department at Stamen Iliev.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The total indicative value of the construction and repair activities for Montana region is close to 1 million. 900,000. lv. without VAT. The public procurement for construction and repair activities for all emergency care centres and their affiliates in the Northwestern region is due to be announced by the end of July. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u66	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Dr. Ademov will ask a second question on behalf of the group. You have the floor, dear Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, at the beginning of your exhibition you stated that the capital expenditures incurred in the three hospitals or in the three regions are about two million leva. There is nothing wrong with that, because everyone wants to work under good working conditions, they want to work with modern equipment. However, it turns out that this is not attractive enough for medical professionals, for doctors who, as a whole, are not interested in these hospitals. Next, a third of the population of the three districts has passed through hospital care facilities. Even if the entire population passes through healthcare facilities in the three districts within one calendar year, there is no way that revenues in these hospitals will be increased so as to satisfy the legitimate claims of doctors and medical professionals in these hospitals from higher remuneration. Another point is that there is no way to resolve the issue with these receipts, as you just said, with the late payments of the medical institutions. From this point of view, a week ago, you said that based on the demographic picture, based on the state of human resources, you are offering restructuring in Northwestern Bulgaria's medical institutions, offering strengthening, offering stabilisation. This is, in my view, an appropriate measure in terms of the demographic picture and in terms of the state of human resources. After a week you said you were giving up this idea, or changing your mind, and talking about revealing new structures in Vratsa, you're talking about revealing two structures. Do you think that the problems in Northwestern Bulgaria can be solved in the three hospitals, in these hospitals that are in this Northwestern region before the health problems in Bulgaria are solved? Already in Europe and in the world we are talking about personalized medicine here, we are still talking about regionalized, almost medical. We can hardly solve, in my opinion, the problems in a region, whoever it is, because the problems in Northwestern Bulgaria do not differ from the problems, for example, in Northeastern Bulgaria. My question to you is: do you think that the issues in Northwestern Bulgaria can be resolved in the short term, regardless of all the problems in all healthcare?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u68	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to give your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u69	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Dr. Ademov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully agree with you, Dr. Ademov, that when looking for change, the change should be sought at a horizontal level, i.e. in the whole country, because more of the problems of over 90% appear in all hospitals and hospital care, and for outpatient care. In the Northwestern region, there are some peculiarities that we need to take into account together with the general rules and principles where we will want to make the change across the country. That is where we are focusing our efforts and I hope that we will achieve the necessary results. In Northwestern Bulgaria, as you mentioned, the population is shrinking and, whatever conditions we provide, the financial stability of the hospital cannot be ensured without the necessary number of patients passed, and we are not the people who want to increase the sick in order to have more income in the hospital. In other words, there should be a more specific mechanism to give these hospitals the opportunity to function normally both under these demographic conditions and in the absence of doctors in this region. I have not given up on a change in these three hospitals in Northwestern Bulgaria. We pointed out yesterday at the meeting with the directors specific measures that can now operate under existing regulations. What we will look for as a more general change will happen once the medical standards are adopted, the algorithms of clinical pathways, the conclusion of the new framework contract. In addition, there are other factors that will reflect, such as the rules of good medical practice with the new things that will enable us with Ordinance 1 on specializations, that is, there is one complex of things that will happen in the near future and they will be at the heart of the change in the functioning and of these three medical establishments, as well as of all others, of course, throughout the country. And in the end, those things that I have spoken about in the context and in the new model, I believe that then already complex, horizontal, as a national policy, we will propose our measures in the relevant hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Rhodolyptics, will there be a second question? There won't be. Thank you. Among the non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs, Mr. Panchev will present a question. You have the floor, dear Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, a few days ago I was in Valchedrum County. You have informed that you are providing for emergency assistance in Montana to invest funds for reconstruction and renewal of the existing base. The emergency assistance in Valchedrum is common to Yakimovo municipality. There hasn't been any repair for many years. There is an ambulance that serves the two municipalities. In line with the ongoing talks with the former management of the Ministry of Health there is assigned terrain, municipal councillors have voted free of charge to provide the ground to the state for building a new emergency centre, there is also a permit for construction. And since I know that now the viewers from the two municipalities are watching your answers, I ask you to be more specific and to say: what is to come by the end of the year, can they expect what has been undertaken as a commitment to the construction of a new centre and its modernisation? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Dear Minister, come in, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Panchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just said that by the end of July public procurement for the Northwestern region will be announced. With all the other regions, we are almost at the finish line and I hope, somewhere by the end of August, to prepare the required documents for the public procurement and for the other planning areas. So whether they will happen by the end of the year, I cannot say, because in Bulgaria, you know that every public procurement is immediately questioned by attacking the Commission for Protection of Competition, before the Supreme Administrative Court and so on, but what depends on us as preparing the materials for public procurement, the job, we are working hard on it and we will soon be ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That's done with the questions. Now, in the same order, the parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to express their attitude towards the answers received. On behalf of GERB's parliamentary group, come in, dear Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, a nice conversation of such conversations, I hope there will be concrete action soon. I would like to thank you, Minister, from this high tribune, because only in the order of one week you have held two meetings with the directors of the hospitals that have been commented so far in the three areas, as today we are having this comprehensive dialogue. The important thing is to stress that the problems of the three districts of all three state hospitals are quite different. It is important to say as a representative of the Vidin region that we do not have another hospital in Vidin, we do not have a private one, there is a very small municipal hospital in Belogradchik, which can barely take any serious functions, and the measures that you have proposed, which we are yet to discuss and activate, are in the short and long term. What is being commented quite in detail here are basic measures that will be triggered in a slightly longer time frame, but we need to take short-term measures because the situation in the Vidin hospital is really quite complicated. I would like to thank my fellow Members from all the parliamentary groups who have said that the issues have not been politicised. This is not about party positions, it is about solving problems that are of a very serious nature and do not concern GERB or BSP or any other political force. In the concrete, because the topic was politicized in the media, mainly in the protests organized by some BSP activists, are not in the Chamber, I would like to stress it, opinions were made that almost the change of leadership in the Vidi hospital has disrupted its activities and its balance. The truth is that the change of leadership took place a year and a half after the last government of Boyko Borisov took over the state, and as a result of poor management of the hospital, as part of the problems that we now have to solve are inherited from this previous management. I will only mention a few things, and you should know them and in particular to hear them all colleagues. For example, in the previous management of the hospital for two and a half years 29 doctors from Vidin left the hospital. The hospital had more than one million debts due. It's now at zero. The hospital had entered into a contract for which, by the way, yesterday there was a conviction in favour of the hospital for invasive cardiology, with which a firm had to be given 30% of the turnover of invasive cardiology.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u76	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] : Thirty-eight.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u77	Yeah, 38. Thank you. So things are pretty complicated. Colleagues, let me tell you why it's difficult to get out of this situation. Sixty-five percent of medical activity at the end of 2013. s 35 for side activities, now are right back. 32% for medical activities, the rest are for some other things. The data came from last year. I would like to say a few things that are important to all three areas. I would ask colleagues not only medical workers, but also people in general, and I hope that these are all colleagues who are engaged in health care in Bulgaria and mainly in Northwestern Bulgaria, we need to think about whether this regulation is doing us a good job. Because you mentioned it, I'll say it: colleagues, in the Vidi hospital the problem is that there is no one to work, no one to earn the money. I'll give you specific numbers, specific numbers. Compared to last year and what the Health Insurance Fund should provide for activity, from January to June we have from 65 to 200 thousand BGN. Unemployed, £200,000. for June, and I'll say specifically 911 thousand could possibly be made... [[the President signaled that time had run out.]] ...made 713. 200,000. lv. $120,000. lv. for wages. If we give them away, it's 500 leva. Upstairs for wages. So I think we should think, Mr. Minister, about residents at the hospital, about young specialists at the hospital, about improving the conditions in which these people work. For example, I already have an agreement with the mayor of the municipality, and I hope with the other mayors of the municipalities, to provide municipal housing to young specialists, to provide scholarships. For example, I from this tribune promise that I will give personal scholarships to students who are studying with commitment to come to work in Vidin. Municipal councils will campaign to change their regulations so that they can give scholarships to students and so on. To you, Mr. Minister, let's think about it, to direct people specifically to the Vidin hospital, so that there is someone to earn the money that nurses so eagerly want to earn. The truth is, doctors earn money and nurses help. Thank you again for your concern. We continue to act, Mr. Minister. This is neither the beginning nor the end of the talks and of the actions on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. On behalf of the BSP parliamentary group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to start with a rhetorical question to you: why did you conduct the meeting on June 26th this year with the managers of the three hospitals Vidin, Vratsa and Montana, as well as with the directors of regional health inspections of the same three cities, not in the region, but in the capital?! Or part of the tour you have announced around the country to discuss the waitings of all of us doctors, medical professionals, as well as of the whole society, a new model of financing health care will also take place in the capital and will be visited only a few municipalities or districts. After this meeting, you announce that you intend and are ready to make restructuring of the district hospitals in Vidin, Montana and Vratsa, closing down their non-costable wards for the purpose of quoting you: With this statement, you, Minister, have put additional pressure on the healthcare system of this region and the feeling of uncertainty about the future of its contractors and the existence of hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u80	Allow me, Dr. Timchev, in fact the procedure provides for an attitude towards the given answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u81	I'm expressing attitude, yes, and from what I've heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u82	Excuse me, but you're asking questions that the Minister doesn't have a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u83	They're rhetorical and don't interrupt me, please. I want to tell you that I'm in the system. For years, doctors in municipal and district hospitals have been waiting for the new framework contract. They are waiting for new limits that have gradually been limited over the years. The incessant prices of clinical pathways. So, so, over the years, you have reduced the volume of activity of municipal and regional hospitals; many of my colleagues from these regions have been caused to leave, and healthcare has plunged into the so-called demographic disaster of such a region as the Northwest. There followed a reaction from us, as a parliamentary group, and with declarations we expressed our clear disagreement with the measures you have announced to deal with the health problems in the region. We have invited you twice to come to Parliament to inform us and to make clear on the statement made so you did not respond. Local reactions from health workers and municipal councils, even collective resignations, followed. The media tells us about a second meeting that you have held and that you say you will already optimize work in the non-costable wards and their consolidation, even talking about discovering new ones. And here's my next rhetorical question, and again, make me a comment: how long will your style of work be on a trial error? To tell you the truth, this model is a disaster for such a conservative system as healthcare. We cannot be calm because at the same time in separate municipal and regional hospitals is the same thing that remains hidden to the society of Bulgaria. In the last 10 years 18 municipal hospitals have been closed, clinical wards have disappeared in recent years. For example, they are closed in Dupnitsa: the haemodialysis department, orthopedic, surgical and possibly AG wards are to be closed. Three wards were closed in the hospital in Kyustendil in 2018, and the Infectious Department has been closed for several days. Since the beginning of the work of this National Assembly, we have initiated and made debates on the main topics related to healthcare, perhaps the most discussed topic in this National Assembly. We have always warned you that this model threatens municipal hospitals, but it will also affect regional hospitals, and they are the backbone of health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u84	Which model?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u85	Well, nothing's happening, Minister. We've made our proposals. We are not indifferent to the processes carried out both in the country's governance and in the healthcare system in the last 10 years. That is why we have also drawn up our proposals, which have been laid down in the vision for Bulgaria. Dear Minister, honourable Members, I address you, Members of the National Assembly! For us and a large part of society, this model of healthcare is not effective and does not lead to quality and affordable medical care. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u86	We're offering a new one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u87	This debate has been going on for years, Minister, and everyone says that deep reforms in the system are needed both in the model and in initiating the system. It is clear to us all that, apart from public debate, political consent is also needed. For us, this is why we are offering consultations and negotiations between political parties in parliament for a new model of health care for the country. We owe it both to the public and to those working in the system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u88	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. I owe you an apology for the interruption, but it was really in order to navigate the procedure. I didn't know you were asking rhetorical questions and that this was your technique. On behalf of the United Patriarchs, Dr. Kalin Popovski, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from your exhibition we understand that the total network of hospitals and hospitals in the three regions is practically enough to serve this population. Problems like everywhere are the lack of footage. There are no cameras running to Sofia and the country due to the low remuneration, especially in state hospitals. What is working at the emergency medical centers in the emergency units of the Project is also enjoying the renovation of the fleet, new buildings and the renovation of the old buildings of these emergency medical centers, which is a direct obligation of the state and of the Minister of Health. It is good that this project is underway and it expects very good results. My advice to you is, I've said it some other time: as quickly as the salaries of the staff reach the collective employment agreement and then the noise in the system will stop. There are financial instruments with which the state has the opportunity to help these hospitals, so I wish you a recent success in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u90	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. From the Movement for Rights and Dear Dr. Jaffer, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the protests, as well as the collective resignation of medical professionals in Northwestern Bulgaria, were a desperate attempt to draw attention to the problems of service in this region. It is often said that hospitals in Bulgaria are many. Yes, there are many, but they are many in Sofia and in three other major university cities in Bulgaria. There is a huge problem with serving the population in whole regions. It was rightly stressed that today, when medicine offers precise diagnostics, personalized medicine, we are talking about the problems of geographical areas, and not just of the districts and municipalities. Dear colleagues, if you are impressed, and here in this Chamber, there are some memorable ones, you will remember that until recently we talked that municipal hospitals are practically bankrupt and in a difficult financial situation. For several years, we have been talking more and more hard about the problems of district hospitals, of state hospitals. The debate we have today is important. Minister, you have several mechanisms to help with specific things the medical institutions of which you are a principal in Northwestern Bulgaria. These mechanisms are not many, abstracting themselves from the common global more general solutions. They relate to capital expenditure and investment, but also to investment in human resources. Because it turns out that the most important thing is the deficit, which needs to be overcome. You have mechanisms to do that. We will continue to monitor what is going on with this specialization regulation. It could not be easier for a young doctor to specialize in Germany than in Bulgaria! There are vivid corruption schemes, they should be interrupted and colleagues should specialize in the specialties they want. You must decide the priorities in the areas, but you must be aware of this analysis for each area. Here, for example, in Vidin there are no private structures, as it is said that they compete and sharpen some money. And yet there's a huge problem. The other problem you can influence is management. Vidin, Vratsa and Montana districts are a typical example of how there is a municipal hospital that is much better than a district structure. The municipal hospital in Lom, excuse me, has much more revenue and higher levels of competence. There is an internal ward, Surgical ward with urology and children's surgery; Nervous department; AG ward, Children's ward, there is orthopedics and traumatology, Anesthesiology and resuscitation, ear, nose and throat, Psychiatric, Infectious, Physical and Rehabilitational Medicine, Hemodialysis Second Level, Transfusion haematological Third Level something that does not have hospitals in Vidin and Vratsa for example. In Vidin, in addition, there is a Cardiological Department. In other words, management matters to these people, so there is something to be done in this direction. On the other hand, it appears that there is little flexibility in this particular management. Only the Montenegrin hospital, which is very good, takes steps in 2018, for example, for revealing additional beds for long-term treatment, healing, palliative care. This is the only hospital that has a multiprofile emergency room, that is, management has a thinking that is related to the current situation. These people, with these demographic indicators, given that more than 130 thousand of this population is over 65 years old and needs this type of care, and not even a department that offers active treatment, here are the opportunities and prospects that the Ministry must support with regard to the management of these medical institutions. I would like to say to you that we will continue to support your efforts to ensure better access to the population in remote and small settlements, because this is our firm principle position over the years and will not be changed, including at the expense of protectionism in this regard. There are now whole geographical regions in which access to this constitutionally recorded right of access to health care is just fiction. We cannot, in 50% unattended practices of the Jeep, in non-working compartments, in the absence of long-term treatment units, hospices and palliative care, want and think that we offer a service to the population as this population expects. We will strongly support your efforts in this direction, as well as your efforts to change the health insurance model; as well as your efforts to introduce eHealth, because it turns out that this is still a fiction; as your efforts to introduce standards in good medical practices, because this is the future. Medicine is moving forward, offering solutions and treatments for very curable diseases, something that was unthinkable until recently, and we are talking about how whole areas are at risk of being left without their only treatment compartments, without an alternative and with similar financial and demographic problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u92	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. From the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian patriots? Ms. Taskova will express her attitude towards the Minister of Health's responses. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u93	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In fact, during the hearing it was necessary to make it clear to all of us, the MPs, as well as to the society, the current state of the healthcare system in Northwestern Bulgaria. If we limit ourselves to this, I think that yes, we have received a lot of data, a lot of figures, a lot of statistics, we have understood how many practices there are, how many wards, how many hospitals, but what actually caused this hearing is the fear of doctors and people, in my opinion. What should we broadcast as a signal to society, which is excited by the problems of health care in Northwestern Bulgaria? You must have understood, Mr. Minister, that at some point the doctors started asking themselves questions if one of the Departments of Pulmology, for example, is in Vidin and this Gynecology is in Vratsa and came pregnant with pneumonia, where exactly should it be sent? In my opinion, the purpose of such a hearing is to signal the public that there will be no such dilemmas and the Ministry of Health will provide health care and treatment for the population in the area. I personally did not understand the specific measures you are taking for this provision at this time of the population in Northwestern Bulgaria. A lot of colleagues are present in this room, including doctors. Maybe they know about hospital management. If anyone right now tells me what the specific measures are, I would be grateful, but in this regard I do not think people understand, so I ask you also to ensure that there will be no Bulgarian citizen left in Northwestern Bulgaria in this case, because we are talking about these problematic three hospitals, without adequate healthcare and treatment. This is my attitude, because for me, this is the important message that we have to broadcast to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. I don't see one of my colleagues who doesn't belong to a parliamentary group asking for the floor. We have completed the hearing procedure of the Minister of Health on the current state of the health system in Northwestern Bulgaria. Please come in for an affidavit. Mr. Minister, then we will continue with parliamentary control. [[Noise and lines.]] We are listening carefully to a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of parliament, while GERB and a company are forcing us into captivity of the saga, our country has collapsed, quietly another commitment of power has failed. Nice work, but, as they say, guaranteed by GERB. This is happening at the moment after it was understood that the tol system, as a charging regime for heavy goods vehicles on the Bulgarian roads, is postponed once again. Dear colleagues of GERB, we are sure that you have already seen how this system and its real implementation are complete chaos. The bad news is, this chaos continues to grow. The problem with the twice-delayed start of the tol system is simply a front behind which there is pressure for interests and redecorating appetizing parts of this system. You have neither the ambition nor the reasonable resource to explain why the next amendments to the Law are being passed in the 90th minute and a third date is announced for the start of the Tol system. Who among you would dare to explain why the regime for the so-called DDCs is changing now? The idea was to sign contracts with the Road Infrastructure Agency and now all of a sudden it will be done by the intermediaries between the Agency and the users, namely the so-called national service provider. Someone should be afraid to admit that behind the curtain of this theater is peeping at a favourite topic of GERB. The delivery system was supposed to act officially without commissions, and suddenly it snuck in how the commission would be 2% and the companies, according to the latest changes, would conclude contracts with precisely these intermediaries. Suddenly, with the new proposals for amendments to the Agency Act, Road Infrastructure is abruptly giving up the collection of tolls and so openly and completely undisturbed all revenues are being directed through a single company so far. We ask: who is not yet aware that the dog is buried in some 50 million. lv. for commissions, of course, according to the estimated revenue from the toll system? Even after a double delay in the start of the system, the state is still unaware of the final range of the road network that will enter the toll system regime and negotiations with the industry on tariff and scope are constantly postponed. You slept through the last one promised, even personally by the Prime Minister, a deadline of November 1st, when the system was supposed to work. The way we hear half-confession about how the police weren't fortified, and the truth is, it's not that it's not fortified, but that it's a funny system from half-work and half-rights. Essentially, the total chaos is your idea of how to pay. There is no explanation why the current idea of trucks paying tolls by choice and through route maps or GPS devices. It continues to be unclear what are the reasons why the state agency is completely exempt from the planned and, by the way, the World Bank's recommended function to collect tolls and how suddenly there is no capacity to perform this work. Now let's go back to the buried dog and look for the explanation in the financial effect, namely the national service providers will collect up to 7% commission from the price of the wine and tolls, and the revenues from the second, of course, are expected to be at times greater than those for the wines. According to the latest confessions under this bill, the figure of 700 million is indicated as an annual income from tol fees. lv. Shall we calculate that that means how about 50 million a year. lv. will go to the intermediaries as official commissions? The fact that GPS companies are not allowed to function on their own in the market and thus save the state these costs is also questionable for us. You don't even know how many people work and need this system yet. At the beginning were 23, then became 68, now the figure swelled to 629. In thick fog, the information about the installed frames for control of the toll system is also sunk, so, colleagues, your deadlines are the least of your problems. And when you leave with the long-term March 1st is no use to you, tell yourself April 1st! You're already joking with another law, joking with promises to the transport industry, sad joke are your ways, and revenue in the budget, but your legislative weakness is more than serious and you're not tired of proving it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. We'll continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 28 June " 4 July 2019" are not available. We have written answers from: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on three questions from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on three issues from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Georgi Vergiev and Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Health of Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov on two questions from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Alexander Paunov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev, last written answer. We begin with the questions to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister. He will answer a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov about the economic model, acting in Bulgaria and the need for its change. For procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you in this procedure, as President of the National Assembly, Vice-President, in connection with a question I have asked, Mr. Chairman of the Assembly, to the Prime Minister, concerning the pest fighting of insects, mosquitoes, in cities along the Danube River and other places that are threatened. My question, Mr. President, has been returned by the President of the National Assembly as sent to the Prime Minister, but not by competence. I now understand that the Prime Minister at a meeting of the Council of Ministers has announced, ordered the conduct of such an airline to which 2 million have been allocated. lv. My question has been referred to Mr. Goranov, who is on leave and obviously cannot answer the question, although I have also requested a written answer. This, honourable Mr. President, shows that the lack of coordination between the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers, on the one hand, and on the second hand, this is an extremely important problem. A disaster has already been declared in some of the municipalities. In Bregovo today declared a state of emergency for this reason. Minister Goranov can't answer me. Please pay attention to him as well as the Ministry of Finance. Just because he is on holiday does not mean that you can not answer at least in writing a question of a representative of the National Assembly, and on such a really important issue for Bulgaria, for half Bulgaria. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The communication between the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers is excellent. As far as the Prime Minister's attitude is concerned, this merely demonstrates his commitment to the problem. Indeed, your question has been redirected to the Ministry of Finance in jurisdiction and this is in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. We expect after the measures taken after the meeting of the Council of Ministers you will receive a really competent answer to your question. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u99	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! What has touched on, Mr. Chairman, my colleague Philip Popov just now, I would also like to make a note of it and confirm it. I represent the area which has a 34km border with the Danube River and four municipalities within Pleven district are located in it. For three weeks, I have asked the Finance Minister a question about an absolutely identical problem, which is current and very sensitive. There are mass signals, protests took place in some of the villages in Gulyantsi last week...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u100	Procedure! Enter the procedure, dear Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u101	The procedure is that there is no indication except for some decisions outside Parliament and the parliamentary mechanisms that we are trying to use as MPs. Three weeks of my question, there's no answer, and it's an ongoing and sensitive question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u102	Thank you. As far as I understand, you would like to get an answer to your question, and is it not more important to do what is done in the Council of Ministers to take practical measures and eliminate the problem? You will also get your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u103	Let's not turn this into a conversation. I pay you serious attention to working effectively under the rules that Parliament has established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u104	Thank you for paying attention to me. I would suggest you carefully familiarize yourself with the procedure and requirements for questions. Dear Mr. Zarkov, please come in and ask your question to Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The aim of my question is to try to engage together the National Assembly with a debate that you have been trying to lead and the waters for a certain time, namely the debate on the economic model in Bulgaria, as it is at the moment, how it works and especially how it needs to be changed. The current economic model in Bulgaria is characterized by its low production costs, including low wages, with final production with low added value and largely responds to the apparent paradox why, although the economy is growing, although there are parameters that are rather encouraging, a large part of the Bulgarian population is dissatisfied with its vital status. In your series of public appearances, you have declared yourself to change this model in this particular part of it and to transform it from an economy to an insole, figuratively speaking, into an economy of added value. Those are your words, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have also published an article in your personal blog entitled "The Need for Economic Transformation" where it is noted that this transformation process, in addition to being driven by normal market mechanisms, will have to be directed by the state in view of its acceleration, systematicness and scale. In this order of thought is my question to you: to what extent are these views shared by the entire Council of Ministers, including the majority, which supports it in its various parameters, are specific actions planned by the government in view of this extremely imperative change?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I welcome the efforts to hold, including a parliamentary debate on the subject, because such a conversation is needed. First of all, the subject is neither theoretical nor laboratory. Secondly, as you yourself said, or at least you marked here, the government and state institutions have certain commitments. It would be a mistake to close the issue and make it almost an exclusive activity of state institutions. This has to be a public process. Where do we go from here? If you look at the numbers, as you have marked, we even have reason to be satisfied. For example, Bulgaria's gross domestic product has doubled over the past 13 or 14 years. Bulgaria has partially reindustrialized itself. The share of production plus construction is 28.5%, which is higher than in a number of other European countries. If you do an analysis of the structure of the export, you will probably notice that decades ago a major part of the export goods were rather souvenirs. In recent years, fortunately, we have more and more processed production, machines, facilities, and these are encouraging signals. The big problem is that the factors that have driven all these processes at the time: accession to the common market, political stabilisation, stable tax system, low costs, will at some point lose their attractiveness for a number of reasons, including the fact that in recent years labour costs have increased by sometimes more than 10% per year. And the simple question is: what will happen to these proceedings, for which the main reason to be here are the low costs, including labour costs? The obvious answer, following market logic, is that at some point they will be uncompetitive. Of course, I had said it myself. One option is to wait for the market to react. He can't stand empty spaces and he'll probably get involved. I would say: workers from a closed factory, which no longer makes sense and makes sense to exist here, would go to another, where added value, mechanization, automation of production are higher. I believe that the state has no right to stay away from this process, and if natural market logic would follow in this direction, the state should try to speed up the processes. What should the state do? First of all, it must be extremely careful because world experience knows very good models of economic transformation that have taken place with the participation of the state, but also the world experience knows dozens of examples of insanely spent funds in this direction without any particular effect. The basic logic is that the state should not finance what can be financed by the business, because the shifting of a private investment with public funding is a double damage. In addition to the concept that I tried to provoke a discussion, efforts are running in several directions. The first is the whole package of efforts in the field of education. I will not repeat, you are probably familiar with a large part of the initiatives involving legislative changes or purely organisational measures of colleagues from the Ministry of Education from the entrance of the system, a guarantee that there will be no drop-out children, through the introduction of dual training plus all reforms that lie ahead in the field of higher education. The second topic is the financing of expenditure on applied science and innovation. This is a big topic, given the fact that we have the ambition to invest in this area much more money than before, given the nature of the needs. With this organizational structure, which we currently have, functions divided partly between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economy, this cannot happen in the best way. We must unite the units of the two ministries that have responsibilities to the process, in a new structure where this will be a major commitment to thinking, planning policies, writing legislation, writing legislation, writing a legislative framework and in general organization of the process in the best way, as is, by the way, in any developed country. This is what the texts are doing at the moment. At some point, they cannot be ignored by the National Assembly. The other big topic is the topic of traditional business infrastructure. Currently, a working group is preparing changes in legislation relating to regulation of what is an industrial area, plus optional regulation of all other similar types of infrastructures, parks, competence centres, centres of excellence and so on. The main topic is not regulation, although if we are talking about intensive public support, it is good to have a legal regulation about what is what. The more important issue is another. We are trying to make such a proposal for a change in legislation that when such facilities are being built, for example, an industrial zone, a large part of the applicable procedures under all laws to be played Adhok in relation to the entire industrial zone. When an investor appears, he can get a building permit inside the area under the shortest and simple procedure, because in my experience, one of the things that interests investors is time. You may know that sometimes, especially if you decide to pursue an investment intention on land that is currently for agricultural purposes, only when the land is allocated plus all other environmental procedures, with the Law on Construction on the territory, can it take two years. There are investors who can't wait for that deadline. This is important because in my opinion Bulgaria needs at least ten new industrial zones. I'm not saying everyone should be state, but at least ten. Given that we must support this process, it is not good for the state to directly finance an event as an industrial area. All over the world, it's potential, including business. This is an economic event and one such area must be managed professionally. It is almost mandatory for the State to finance all accompanying events: road, water, sewerage, gas, all that is necessary for the normal functioning of the area. And to go back to the main topic... extremely measured and precise must be the role of the state. On the one hand, she has to help, but she has to help smartly. Even in the best working state mechanisms in Western Europe, we have empty parks, industrial areas in which there is no production, or there are no warehouses, or there are no logistics centres, and for them public funding is given. So, simply put, are the three basic packages of measures, but it all starts with education. Economics of higher added value means staff adequate in the labour market means young specialists, scientists, experts who have to work in these enterprises. Of course, it all starts in the first grade. What benefit is it that we have several thousand talented engineers if at the same time we have children who have remained outside the scope of the educational system?! Of them we probably have unrealized experts, unrealized workers, why not unrealized engineers, so the most important are the efforts at the entrance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have put the question where it belongs, namely what is the role of the state in this whole process? Firstly, I am in a hurry to agree that this is a debate that must go beyond the political class and must become the least common multiple of all public discussions from now on. The state has to intervene smartly, it has to intervene, you admit, and yet I think it has to intervene braverly. Of course, the state cannot simply abstract itself from this process. You recognise it and have indicated measures, but all these measures are either below or above or around the market. Industrial zone to fix borders, education to prepare the staff are all important things that must no doubt be done. I think you're overestimating an element of these natural market mechanisms that, according to the underlying theory, should lead to general prosperity. You overestimate it in spite of everything and underestimate its negatives. For example, to natural market mechanisms you give in your material a sustainable increase in labour costs, including remuneration. Is there such a raise? There is. Is that enough? Not at all. Labour costs, which include not only the salary, but all the costs involved in the production process by employers, remain far the lowest in Europe, according to the German statistical bureau at the moment in Bulgaria they are 5.3 euros per hour, while in the first, Denmark, there are eight times as many as 44.7. The average level is 26.6. I say this not to stress how bad we are, but what a margin employers still have, who rely solely on this competitive advantage. That is, the natural market mechanism that you are talking about, just as naturally, can result in employers pushing to maintain the current status quo and being able to take advantage of this easy competitive advantage for as long as possible. They must be engaged in this process in another way. Being in the common European market, at this low rate, we enter into an enchanted circle where low incomes make people go out and work abroad and, in turn, the lack of labour becomes one of our main obstacles to prolonged and sustainable growth. This enchanted circle cannot be interrupted by the market, it is created by this market. That is, the state should not only intervene inside, not only interfere with the side or around, it should find a way smart, I agree, without radicalism entering and being an active actor in this process. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. [[Reply from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev.]] My additional question is as follows: what are the instruments with which the state can not only support this process, but also mitigate the negative consequences of the functioning of the economic model in Bulgaria at the moment?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Percent, dear Mr. Burgeev, I have increased Mr. Zarkov's time by more than 50%.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u111	Dear Mr. Zarkov, those employers who rely on low labour costs as a main competitive advantage will soon be left without workers and without business, simply put. Continuing on the topic, what is the role of the state, as far as we are not market fundamentalists, as we said at the beginning, and we argue that only the market will do all the work. Starting with the fundamental things that are written in each textbook, what is the formula for promoting economic development, education, infrastructure, financial stability, predictable tax environment, better administrations and lower corruption, plus all the fine settings that we commented on in the first part of our conversation, including a new legislative regulation of innovation infrastructure and traditional business infrastructure; how else does the state participate? She's giving money. I would like to remind you that at present we have two programs -- science and education for smart growth -- and the Operational Programme -- Innovation and competitiveness -- which directly finance similar events. He doesn't give a little money, I'm talking billions. He will continue to invest in these same priorities, and this is clearly the two programmes that will have a higher budget. That's definite, I can tell you at the moment. However, the state must do it in the best way because public funding in this area, as I have just marked, is not always indisputable. We should not allow ourselves to give public funding where there is private investment interest. With this, the damage is double. First of all, we've spent money, second of all, we've moved away a possible private investment. Second, big subject, I marked it a little while ago. We are also currently building thirteen, fourteen units of the innovation infrastructure and universities and institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I hope this will become good projects and be implemented in the best way possible. There are a lot of open questions: will these individual atomic units be, or will they somehow follow the priorities of the economy and of the state; how will funding be provided for their future work? I do not in any way dispute the right of teams, scientists to do such research as they are interested in at the moment, but it would be a huge mistake for existing units and any new ones that will be created not to be sensitive to the pulse of the market so that an entrepreneur cannot go to the laboratory that is built, test a machine, material, a product that he produces or wants to produce, and therefore pay, as it is in the entire civilized world. Here, in terms of these fine settings, we haven't gone all the way. I agree that in addition to doing our work in the form of organisational measures done by the government in the form of a change in legislation, the most important thing is an adequate signal that this is the way. Until we change the thinking of managers, owners, rectors, things can't work out. After all, let me remind you that changes in regulations, rules are made by officials and by administration. The role of politicians is to formulate a strong idea, a strong goal and a message to be adopted by everyone. Last, I have tried, although I have dealt with the subject before, to find the least common multiple of the countries that have made a successful economic transformation, because we have different examples here in Europe, and beyond the ocean, and in Asia, the models are very different, but the least common multiple among all these countries is the following: strong education, public finances and, pay attention, the ability of society to unite around a consensus goal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u112	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, before we go to the finer settings, I support your effort both for this conversation and for consensus, but consensus is easy to find with regard to the goal. The argument is: how do we get to her? This dispute can be useful and it will be useful because it will enter precisely in this spirit, which you aim to challenge in different managers, in different employers and workers. Because, as noted in your development, the idea that we will live better here tomorrow is extremely important for this transformation to happen. So the effort must be supported. We in BSP have also made such an effort and we have written our proposals, including in the fine settings in the document "Vision for Bulgaria" where we have headed this section - a new path to sustainable economic development. That's where we're talking about public investment. As a matter of fact, much of the good results that have been mentioned several times come from them, including EU funds. You have repeatedly defended the thesis on how much they have contributed to the growth of gross domestic product. And that's true. I mention it so that we do not think that only the market and only the market is the one that is fruitful, and for social entrepreneurship not only as a way to help disadvantaged people, but as a new kind of solidarity economy, which is not only dealing with distribution of dividends around the world, and the role of social dialogue, where in Bulgaria there is much to be desired at both national and regional level and industry level, and all these things. In addition, in order for these solutions to be adequate, we must also see the realities as they are outside the theory of Bulgarian and global realities, because they will make us not only look at the textbooks. Of course, it's nice to know them, but to try to think bravely beyond them. In the Bulgarian realities, it will be difficult to continue the dialogue before telling each other exactly what our market is and exactly what our country is, before admitting that our market in huge parts of its sectors is not natural, that non-market relations are created there, that the state often appears I will not use the word, but I will say that the relationship between a market and a country is very often described by the attribute of oligarchy. These are realities, and the state also has a bearing on them, not you directly as Deputy Prime Minister, but the state. But there's the other, the global aspect. As you say, the Bulgarian economic model has reached its ceiling, there are people who say that global capitalism, as it develops, has reached its limit. Inequality takes on monstrous proportions and causes absolutely unpredictable economic, social and political consequences. Another industrial revolution, and the development of artificial intelligence, calls into question the whole construction of the labour market and no more question than: what will be the economic role of the working man tomorrow? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, the environmental challenges, the risk of eco-cacclysm, will necessarily lead to a rethink of the underlying postulates of modern capitalism, mostly of the courageous belief that all living forces are exhausted by continuous consumption and eternal growth.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u114	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u115	All these postulates on which many of the textbooks and theories based on modern politics have been questioned. Therefore, my appeal to you and to everyone here who is listening and who will take part in this debate is to think, but not just to think, but to think bravely, to think outside the box, to think in such a way as to catch up with those who have overtaken us. We won't be able to catch up with the countries more developed than us if we run the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u116	We understand your application, Mr. Zarkov. We're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u117	We need a shortcut. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u118	Thank you. We continue with the next issue, which is once again by MP Krum Zarkov concerning difficulties in carrying out audit, testing and certification of voting machines used in the production of elections for members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria in 2019. Here you are, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen of the House, for the time being. My first topic was more pleasant than this, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, but I am asking you this question that is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u120	Whether they are pleasant or less pleasant themes, there is the same time limit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u121	I agree, Madam President. I'm taking a note. Dear Mr Vice-President, the recent European elections have found difficulties in carrying out audits, testing and certification of voting machines as required by the last drafts of the Election Code. Art. 1 (2) (a) 18, para. 1 sentence third of this code states that the Council of Ministers is the one who coordinates the activities of the executive bodies in relation to the substantive and technical provision of elections. By Decision No 162 of 27 March this year, the Council of Ministers entrusted you with this coordination. According to § 39, para. 1 of the "Transitional and final provisions" to the latest amendments to the Election Code, during these elections machine voting had to be produced in at least 3000 sections. This was also the decision of the CEC eventually.. 3000 sections. The Central Election Commission, however, was hampered by the refusal of various Bulgarian institutions, among which the Bulgarian Institute for Standardization, the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology, the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency of National Security and the State Agency of Metrology and Technical Supervision, to carry out audit, testing and certification of these machines. After all, the machine voting is realized thanks to the cooperation of the Faculty of Mathematics and Informatics of Sofia University and the Institute of Information and Communication Technologies at BAS, which were able to certify the machines really in extreme time and hours before these machines started on different sections. In view of the obligations assigned to you by the Law and the above-mentioned decision of the Council of Ministers, please answer me: how do you assess the actions of the executive bodies and the Central Election Commission on the audit, testing and certification of voting machines as part of the material and technical provision of passed elections for Members of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u123	Dear Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, what you are commenting on is not something that happened for the first time. Same pattern, same algorithm happens in the last election, when we have machines, one. Two, this isn't about a technical inspection. We are talking about a complex set of events and measures. First of all, they're not just connected to machines as a device, because besides machines we have smart cards, specialized thermal paper for printing, check receipts, USB flash carriers and so on, but these are events in several directions. Firstly, in order to be understandable, guarantees that what is introduced as a vote corresponds to what is then produced as results, what is reported. Guarantees that the machine cannot, as a result of normal actions, be disabled because such a risk is also a subject with particular sensitivity, guarantee that the machine does not have a splint that transmits data in real time with the result of the vote, and is always extreme because once the machines are provided by the contractor, the time until the election process itself is too short and is usually done by the same team. I just want to remind you that in the Election Code, in art. 213, p. 17 is recorded that machine voting is carried out by electronic means. The electronic system is designed, implemented and maintained in a way that allows audit and verification by authorised authorities, which sounds nice, only there are several problems here. Firstly, it is not clear what audit and verification is and it is not clear at all who is an authorised authority. We are a government authority authorized to perform similar functions, we do not. Secondly, there is no capacity in a state body to carry out such activities. There is no state body in law that has a similar commitment and, unfortunately, there is no state body that, due to the complexity of the event at the moment, has the capacity to carry it out. Thirdly, a subject with particular sensitivity. We, theoretically, with you for example, having a collegiate discussion, could determine some state authority. Let me remind you that all the rules of electoral legislation have been made so that the executive can support the logistics process, but it can stay away from it. Or said in a more simple language, it should not happen that tomorrow someone will say that some of their structures of executive power and the Council of Ministers have touched the machines. We must not give rise to such reproach, but the main reason that neither by law does a state body have such a right, power or responsibilities. Capacity is a separate topic. Everything else is the subject of debate and what the honourable National Assembly has judged happens.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u124	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Zarkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Donchev, thank you for your answer. Yeah, it's not the first time, but the last time it happened and created a problem, two years nobody did anything to be solved. There was an argument and it revolved in the same place to get back to the particular problem. You have clearly explained how complicated it is, how much technology must be made and how important it is that, in fact, the secret of the vote and the right of people to vote are on a scale, how delicate it is, because it is about executive power, all of this is the case. The question is how do we do it to overcome all these challenges? The executive power is not accidentally engaged by the Election Code in this process, because there are cases where logistics should be provided and a CEC body that is independent and selected with functions, in negotiations with certain companies, for example. The CEC should be assisted in solving these so complex and delicate issues. It is not the executive power to work with the machines, nor the executive power to touch the machines themselves. It is a matter of assessing whether there is an authority that could carry out this activity, if any, be authorised in the proper order, or if there is no such body, to give clear instructions on what should be done, because we are about to have new elections. In the Election Code, there is also an obligation to have machines, twice as many as six thousand. The local elections themselves are of a much more complex technical nature, and it is not right somehow to sit back and watch the CEC struggle or wonder exactly when someone will think of coming here to propose the cancellation of the engine vote under the pretext that it is very complicated. To avoid all of this, and that is actually the purpose of my question to draw your attention, as well as that of my colleagues. [[the President signals that time has run out]] To this heavy case. There are several others, for them there is a solution, it is a matter of debate and of consensus between the political forces and those involved in the process. Let's not sit on the sidelines and watch, that's my appeal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u127	Firstly, I do not accept any hint that until now, there has been a risk of the secret of the vote or its authenticity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u128	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u129	The machines are audited by teams working on NATO methodology, probably some of the most prepared people in the country, only they are in academic circles, not in any state institution. One of the big problems we have, Mr. Zarkov, is that we have no one to learn from, as far as there is no other European country that supports machine voting, we are the only one. I accept that the honourable National Assembly, the Central Election Commission, can organise a mission to Namibia, India, the Philippines, Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan to learn from their experience. But the huge problem we have is that there is no other European country that has a machine vote. And in a normal situation, we can go to a country from the older part of Europe to see how the model is arranged with them, we don't have a similar chance here. Last, the Central Election Commission has always received full assistance for any need it has, you can ask them, in committee format or plenary format.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u130	Allow me to thank Mr. Tomislav Donchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. First, she will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests on control and imposition of sanctions under the Rural Development Programme. Dear Professor Bachvarova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u131	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The reason for our questioning with colleague Ivan Valentinov Ivanov is related to the scandals surrounding the guest houses, which in the past few months have been subject to extremely high attention from different institutions. But the problems are not just with them. This process is objectified and the scandals that follow are in a number of reports from the European Commission, which are drawn up on the basis of audits that are being carried out on the country. And after 2015 the sanctions and problems that exist before Bulgaria regarding the absorption of funds from the first programming period are the result of reported gaps and control by the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and certification audit of the funds from the European funds. The fact is that, after all, in the first programming period, we have so far 10 million euros for the guest houses, we have confirmed 13.3 million. EUR for municipal projects, for publicity EUR, and a conciliation procedure awaits again for municipal projects as regards the implementation of the activities set out in them. The reasons can be sought in different directions. Not as an attitude, but still as an observer who monitors the processes, I can tell you that it makes an impression as errors in this programming period, and also in the current, continuous change of regulations, regulations, guidelines and so on. And perhaps the second, and the participation of the Executive Director of the State Fund in defining the rules, of the methodologies for the implementation of the activities. The case of the methodology that was rejected by the Administrative Court is an example that mixing activities during the same programming period, without being clearly defined, leads precisely to the creation of precedents where we have problems with the implementation of the measures and the sufficiently clear control of their implementation. Our question is most general and it is aimed at the need to establish rules. These rules have obviously not acted during the first programming period, but we have a chance in this and for the next programming period, when the funds are envisaged to be less, they will be made in a way that will create the prerequisites for transparency in the management of the programme and those weaknesses that are accounted for will not be a fact. What is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on control and the imposition of sanctions on beneficiaries under the Rural Development Programme for the two programming periods? How is the coordination of this policy with the State Fund implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u132	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u133	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! Of course, I'll answer the question the way I've been set up as policies. But at first, I'd like to start with a little bit of concrete data so we don't have to make ourselves blacker than we are. On the page of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is uploaded the table with the eight studies currently available, one of which is already completed, with regard to various studies on different measures from the old and current Rural Development Programme. In line three of this table, the 2016 Surveys, which have been completed, show that the initial financial correction is 23 million. 949 thousand. EUR 613, which is reduced to EUR 13 million. 299 thousand. 440 euros and represents 0.6% of the budget of the Rural Programme. In line eight of the table, the study No P 21/2015 has been completed. Procedure has been initiated before the General Court of the European Commission. The total amount of 11 million. 890 thousand. 300 euros represents 0.5% of the budget of the Rural Programme. And I mean two numbers. According to a report from the European Commission on Bulgaria, the error rate is 1.7 and the average for the European Union is 3.2 for 2018. I mean, we have uploaded precisely for publicity these data and studies, of which only one has ended. Everyone else can see what stage it is to show, after all, that these are the results of the way of applying work and that according to the percentages and data that are said, they are not at all worse than the average for the European Union. Undoubtedly, the huge budget of the Rural Development Programme is putting enormous pressure on extremely competent people, consultants and is constantly in the battle of how to improve the control and management systems of the Rural Development Programme. With regard to the guest houses perhaps next week or the following, I hope by the end of the next week we will be able to officially present the results of the inspection, where it will also be evident that such drastic differences as are expected, or some scandalous news will not come out of this. With regard to the data that we now have for cases in respect of guest houses only, 71 are the cases of financial corrections imposed, of which 18 have entered into force and 11 are in favour of the State Fund...................................................................................... and 53 are still in a judicial phase. I can give you other data, but because you were quoting the guest houses. Yes, we will announce the results quite officially, as outside of the on-the-spot checks, which were done at two hundred ninety-something guest houses, of which 288 in monitoring, about 50 of them and media have been present, on-the-spot checks have been carried out, and, of course, the paperwork has been done, we will announce the results. But, again, you will see for yourself that the data that will be presented will not have something as scandalous as there may be some expectations. With regard to politics, I can say the following. This policy has been described in the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, approved by the European Commission. In accordance with the Programme and the Agricultural Support Act, detailed provisions are signed, so-called regulations issued by the Minister, they are produced by joint working groups. The procedures for the implementation of the various measures of the Rural Development Programme are adapted to the requirements of the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. As a result, the implementing rules for the Programme are already being regulated in other documents called application conditions and implementation conditions. In addition, in particular with regard to the control and sanctions against beneficiaries of the Programme, a special regulation on the terms and conditions of repayment, reduction or refusal of payment or withdrawal of the financial assistance paid for the measures and sub-measures not based on the integrated administration and control system has been issued. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This regulation was developed by a joint group again of the Ministry and the Fund. I won't delay the time. Anything in my response can be found in the Rural Development Programme that has been approved and in the sub-normative base that has been adopted in the appropriate order. I would repeat part of the legislation, which is now ultimately public.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u134	You will be able to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u135	And part of the authorship is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u136	Thank you. Professor Bachvarova, come in. Two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u137	Thank you. Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! I started by saying that the issue is too general, as it creates and requires efforts to change things. The problems we have now are for the first programming period. It was then that regulations were in effect. I am under the impression that the change in regulations has in most cases taken place not on the basis of analysis and on the basis of what we have presented in the Rural Development Programme, but rather to adapt projects to requirements that can be met by one group or another. Therefore, one of the important tasks that the State Fund has is to exercise control. However, this control in the first programming period is now at the sanitary minimum of 1% of the projects are being checked and therefore this 1% is not sufficient to be seen in the implementation and monitoring process whether these projects are being implemented properly. That is why the problem is in guest houses with 1% required control requirement because there are, anyway, signals submitted, they reach 16, out of 120 projects 50%, they do not meet the requirements of the business plans they have indicated. Therefore, these minimum requirements, which are specified in the Programme or in the control of the Fund, are not sufficient at the stage in which we are present. That is one question: will it continue in this direction? The second question is precisely about legislation. The Agricultural Support Act was amended in 2018. With regard to the requirements of the Law, a Regulation on the conditions and procedures for establishing artificially created conditions for those applying to be adopted was to be adopted. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This regulation had to be prepared. I know there have been problems, there have been contradictions, but anyway, it is a matter that stands before the Fund of Agriculture.... to carry out its duties in a way that is objective and transparent. So is this regulation going to see the light of day, is it working on it? That's the second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u138	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u139	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! Checks of guest houses with the previous month and last I said, 290 checks, with these 17% previously, out of a total of 746 contracts, we will reach over 50% of the checks we are doing ourselves. The results that will come out of them, I say again, will not be drastic, to such an extent fulfilled. Yes, it will probably be higher than the average error rate that we have had in other measures, but a minor one that is legally required to carry out this verification. This check, this large sample of 50%, we made our conviction with the media to make public. Secondly, we have to make a difference. Yes, there are cases where guest houses do not function at all as guest houses. This is practically the most serious infringement, the entire subsidy is required. But in terms of the business plan, let us be more correct in terms of speech. The business plan is to bet on potential revenues that depend on the number of nights and the price of the night in a market environment where you predict for 5 years. Well, when you create a permanent plantation, when you create a vegetable plantation, can you look for a 100% staked income, provided that it depends on a freely set price and we, of all people who have not reached and fulfilled 100% of the predictable income, tell them that they are trespassers? So these people have worked and we put this offense on our own, sorry, but I don't know which country would afford such behavior to their own business operators that generate revenue, taxes, incomes and gross domestic product in their country. Yeah, there's a 100% shortage, some have over 100%. In the checks we have just done, one part of the guest houses have more than 100% of the guests' houses in Zlatograd had no accommodations available until the end of the year. However, if you planned it for 100 BGN and it is for 50 BGN, some have a performance of more than 50%, some have a performance of less than 50%. This is ultimately a free market. For all those below 50%, there will, of course, be relevant acts, but ultimately they work for purpose, they have created additional jobs, and I would call on that the role of the state is, of course, for justice and the imposition of fair regulation, but we cannot condemn our business operators when ultimately people are working and fulfilling the objectives of the service, creating employment in rural areas and creating income. I say again, in detail we will give information in these 300 checks there are guest houses in which there are no seats available year ahead and are more than 100%. Yes, there are some, and I'm glad that they didn't come out as much as the public expectations, we'll announce it, I don't want to say in advance, I want all the checks on both documents and on the business plans you're talking about to end. This really was a huge amount of work, the organization was created very well by the State Fund of Agriculture, all media were invited to all checks. We have to be very precise in our words. After all, open the report of the European Commission for last year "The average error rate in Bulgaria is less than the average for the European Union."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Bachvarova, you have an opportunity for treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u141	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I started by saying that our question is common and rather the aim is not to make these mistakes, because what we have established as sanctions so far is at the expense of the next programming period. This means that we in the next programming period automatically at this stage will receive less, especially in municipal projects. But our understanding is that we need to look at the whole regulatory framework and all the mechanisms of control. Agree that there is absolutely no symmetry between the requirements for beneficiaries with regard to projects. They, once, have a five-year monitoring period, then make a business plan for ten years, but in these ten years they have to reach indicators. Why don't you do it in the monitoring period if it's five years, in five years to achieve some indicators? Because you can't sanction people who haven't reached the 10-year period in five years. Apart from that, if the terrain is rented and you have there 20 or 25 years of granted building rights, that is, three requirements for the same project with different time frame. This is something that creates difficulties for the administration regarding how it will work further on the control of the projects. In addition, a sanitary minimum is laid down in Bulgaria with regard to the control and its requirements of the State Fund. European regulations say that any country can include whatever control measures it wants that do not conflict with European legislation. These control measures must be effective so that when we talk about a guest house, it is a guest house, regardless of the business plan, but it is used for its intended purpose and not to be used for personal needs. This is the idea that everyone who applies to be with the idea that they should do business in the rural area, as well as the idea that this will contribute to better well-being in this area, where they are working accordingly. I believe that this issue should continue. He is an expert in a large part of the issues that are being posed and which are an obstacle to us we will participate actively, especially for the next programming period, in contributing with our proposals and observations to improve the control environment, which I do not say is worse than other countries, but can be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u142	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. We continue with a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev about the paid funds under the 10th Agroecology and Climate. Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! According to information from the State Fund,............................. 5287 farmers received 58.2 million. lv. under the heading "10 Agro-environment and climate' of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 The payments paid under the campaign measure 2018 have received applicants with commitments in areas: restoration and maintenance of permanent grasslands of high natural value; maintenance of habitats of wintering geese and meadow marshmallows in arable land with ornithological significance; maintenance of habitats of Imperial Eagle and Egyptian Vulture in arable land; control of soil erosion, traditional practices for seasonal grazing; conservation of endangered local breeds important for agriculture; conservation of endangered local varieties important for agriculture, as well as all beneficiaries who have declared more than one of those directions. The financial support for farmers is provided by The rates on which the authorisation of subsidies is carried out shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of art. 14 of Regulation No 7 of the month of February 2015 on the implementation of the 10th Agricultural and Climate Fund of the Rural Development Programme. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what is the number of payments and the amount of funds paid in the different directions of the measure 10 What is the Ministry's economic and environmental analysis of the effectiveness of these support schemes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Taneva, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u145	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Georgiev! In accordance with art. 28 of Regulation No 1305/2013 aims at protecting and promoting the necessary changes in agricultural practices that make a positive contribution to the environment and climate. The inclusion of the measure in the Rural Development Programme is mandatory. Measure 10 Agro-environment and climate is an opportunity to implement a wide range of activities. Payments under the measure shall be granted to farmers who voluntarily undertake to make one or more agri-environment and climate commitments, with commitments being made over a period of 5 to 7 years. The planned funding is aimed at achieving the objectives of the Programme's priorities, and they are: 4a. restoration, conservation and strengthening of biodiversity, including in Natura 2000 sites and in areas with natural and other specific constraints and high natural value agriculture, as well as the state of European landscapes; 4b. improving water management, including the management of fertilisers and pesticides; 4c. preventing soil erosion and improving soil management. In addition to area-based payments, Measure 10 provides compensatory support for the conservation and sustainable use and development of genetic resources in agriculture. The total amount of funds directed at farmers carrying out activities in the period 2015 - 2018 amounts to more than 200 million. lv. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. lv. in directions as follows: - restoration and maintenance of grassland with high natural value: 726 authorised applications, respectively beneficiaries; - support for area/hectara or animal unit: 19 347,86 389 thousand. £96.• • • • • • • • - control of soil erosion: 1697 authorised applications per hectare, 27 583 hectares worth 10 million. 451,000. BGN 718.• • • • • • • - conservation of endangered local breeds, important for agriculture: authorized applications - 1842, 52 956,73 animal units supported by these applications totaling 17 million. 590 thousand. 270,49 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • - conservation of endangered local varieties important for agriculture: authorised applications.. 447 units, for areas 3491 hectares and the authorised amount is 3 million. 645 thousand. BGN 337.75.• • • • • • • • • • - Maintaining the habitats of protected species in arable land of ornithological importance: 712 authorised applications for 109 thousand. The total amount of support is 17 million hectares. 397 thousand. BGN 233,68.• • • • • • • • • • - traditional practices for seasonal grazing or pastoralism: 383 applications for support, 17 thousand. 478,57 hectares, an amount of EUR 4 million. Seven hundred and 812.08 BGN I'll fill in the question later so I don't get out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u146	You have the opportunity. Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, for a reply to the given part of the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question relates rather, not specifically, how the money is spent, but on policies. We know that a fundamental principle in spending European funds is efficiency, efficiency and economy. As the new common agricultural policy is to be adopted and for the first time Bulgaria will have the right, the member states, of course, and Bulgaria, to prepare for the National Strategic Plan, I ask this question precisely in this regard. You know that nine objectives need to be achieved in the new common agricultural policy.. three economic, three social and three environmental ones. It is precisely in achieving these three environmental objectives that we need to do that review and analysis of whether the wintering species of geese, the meadow scavenger, the Imperial Eagle, the Egyptian Vulture should be funded with such a huge resource? You said: these are 712 applications, a total of 109 hectares per 17 million. 397 thousand. BGN, which is a huge amount. My question is precisely in this direction: to do that analysis, to see if these funds are really necessary, who and in what way did the last programming period of 2015 make these schemes supported? Since I do not know, perhaps even before these species I have listed have still passed over to Bulgaria, I hope that you, as a former Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, have led these issues, to be well analyzed these schemes, as they are also subject to observation, may be speculated in this regard, so if you could tell me in the back: what is your opinion on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u149	Surely, in programming the previous programming period, the governments involved in this process have fulfilled, of course, their commitments under European programming legislation. I have no doubt about this, otherwise we would not have had an approved programme at all. With regard to the current programming period. I can tell at what stage we are at and what is to come. Have confidence that you will be invited to all the debates that are to come. Bulgaria is currently at the stage of preparing its analyses four mandatory ones, to which only the first one is about to end and is about to debate with the agricultural community and the environmental analysis is yet to be commissioned. These slot analyses will provide relevant information regarding needs and identify needs. Based on these analyses, we will proceed to writing the national strategic plan, which will include green measures. You know there's a percentage that's mandatory for such measures. They are not the wishes of the parties, they are mandatory. With regard to the type of such measures. The positive thing I can say is that after a meeting of the Member States in Spain on only green payments, a proposal was adopted to draw up a manual or summarize all types of green measures that apply in the different Member States so that each Member State can choose measures that it considers best for its own needs identified in slot analyses. Even if this manual doesn't happen, we have taken procedures to inform ourselves of other green measures so that we choose the most suitable ones. You will participate the MPs will be invited. The first meeting with the coordination unit on the CAP debate, which I formed by entering the Ministry, will be at the end of July, will be invited by the MPs, to which we will present part of the first analysis that is ready, in its economic part, and the programming phase, as well as this stage in the other member states. Everyone will be able to express their own opinion. I would like to say, however, that some of the directions under this measure represent extremely important support for vulnerable sectors. ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? These are mainly producers and farmers growing permanent crops. So we should even think about how to expand their scope and use this measure as a build-up of support to vulnerable sectors. The other, with many applications, supposed local breeds in danger of extinction, which ultimately has the highest support, Mr. Georgiev, not to speculate with wild flora and fauna. 17 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. This goes to support traditional farming in rural areas. And in that sense, I can say that this is a very good measure. The indicators of this measure, which are set out in the Programme, have practically achieved them. And with regard to habitats, was it, for example, for the vulture, two or three applications. So let us not bring out something from which there are two applications as general for a measure that is extremely important for vulnerable sectors in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u150	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next is a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov on the anti-urban protection of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u151	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the hails in Bulgaria. Already every year many territories from the country are often affected by hails. As early as 1968, a system of protection from this phenomenon has been established in the country and the Executive Agency is currently in operation. Public funds are being allocated to deal with the hails. Despite the presence of radars, missiles and people who are trying to deal with the problem, there are parts of the country that are not protected from hail and people are suffering significant damage. In Ruse district, from where I am a Member of the National Assembly, there are also serious problems annually in different municipalities. I have a few questions: what part of the territory of the country is built with a system of protection against hailstones and are there parts of the country that are not protected by rockets? Is there sufficient provision of funds for staff of the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails to guarantee their decent pay and modern technical means to combat this phenomenon? What actions will be taken to improve the state of urban protection in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u153	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Milkov, here are the data you are interested in: in Bulgaria the protection from hailstones is being carried out at the moment by missile method. Until the beginning of 2019 the protected territory from the hail territory had an area of 17,2 million acres, of which: arable land with an area of 11 million acres in the districts of Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Pleven, Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora and Sliven. In 2019 two new command points and 62 new missile sites were opened in Haskovo District and in the sub-Balkan field area. Thus, the total number of missile sites increased from 200 to 262, the protected territory increased by approximately 4.5 million acres, equivalent to more than 26% increase, reaching a total area of nearly 22 million acres, of which 14 million acres were processed. According to 2018 the area of arable land is about 40 million acres, which means that protected by hails is approximately 35% of all arable land. Over the rest of the country's territory, there is no way to carry out active effects of anti-city protection. Since the beginning of the active season in the city protection "27 April 2019," 208 active impacts have been carried out, 1011 building clouds have been processed and 8859 anti-city missiles have been launched. During the same period, hail damage was caused to agricultural land with an area of about 1000 acres covered by the protection. For comparison, the urban agricultural land affected outside the scope of urban protection is 94 thousand acres. In connection with the improvement of the state of the anti-city protection, it is envisaged that after the adoption of a law regulating the reform of the anti-city protection system in Bulgaria, an aircraft defense system will be introduced in Bulgaria, where no missile is working. With the introduction of the aircraft method, it is envisaged that the protection from hail cover 90% of the agricultural land. In the last two or three years, the state has, despite the lack of legal regulation and consensus with farmers for shared funding, despite the fact that the law is still in the National Assembly, invested 13 million. lv. to extend the scope of the anti-city protection, including the introduction of two new radar stations in the region of Shumen and the village of Yarlovo. After the adoption of the law regulating these relations and regulating shared funding with farmers, because there will be no national protection without that is the practice in all countries, I believe that the results of the damage would be quite different. Just to add that for this season there are also rockets, and so far there have been, and regular salaries are paid to the staff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Milkov, you have the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u155	Dear Minister, I will show my colleagues information that is publicly available on the website of the Executive Agency. This is the map of the country. [[shows]] Here it is to you, and the map of the country in Dobrudja does not contain any playground or command post. This is the map of the country from this morning on the site and there is no radar in Dobrudja territory. Here they are: "Interactive radar information system." [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] I won't, yes. I listened carefully to your answer because you said: there is no way to conduct active protection in the territory of the other part of the territory. Well, this remaining part of the territory is the country's grocery store and this is Dobrudja. Same settlements every year. These aren't just farm areas, these are both gardens and people's houses. That's one question for clarification. The other part of my line is: is coordination in the fight, especially with the aircraft, with neighbouring countries, and Rumenia? Because the clouds are also moving when one country treats its territory with airplanes and another does not, is there not a movement of these clouds from Romania to Bulgaria, which I believe is a fact in recent years................................ is happening.................................................... And thirdly, I can't help but say, I really hope in a short time that the entire territory of the country will actually be covered and protected by city protection, but the map I showed, I took it from the site. It shows that a quarter of it is Dobrudja, it simply has neither radar nor missile sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u156	Thank you, Mr. Milkov, for the time and the time. Dear Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u157	Oh, Mr. Milkov, we're here asking ourselves questions, listening to each other's answers, not waving cards. Here, I'll wave one at that colorful one. Well, I won't, here. [[Shows colored sketch.]] It is intended for an aircraft method which has not been introduced because the National Assembly still does not accept the law which is introduced at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u158	The law doesn't regulate where there's gonna be a missile site.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u159	There it is. There it is. This is the project, like why was the project stopped? I was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, you are not a member of it and you are clearly not familiar. It is precisely the National Grain Association that has announced on strike, precisely the farmers of Dobrudja, because they have to pay a fee, and they are the largest farmers. Yes, Mr. Georgiev is a member of the Commission and can say that we are continuing the debate with the National Association of Grain Producers, from other associations nobody is present, and now, as I walk around the areas with farmers, everyone wants it. We have the ambition to end this debate, and everyone may not be very pleased because it is about shared co-financing, but without it there is no way for us to go forward. This is the map of the current proposal "Project of a law, where an airline is envisaged "Dobrudja" enters there, Ruse is your area, as you ask, and the missile tools from which the old are in white and yellow. After 1989, for the first time in the last two and a half years the Bulgarian state financed with funds, without regulation by law, only from a strategic point of view that this should ultimately be done, although we still have no understanding with the agricultural community due to the payment of the fees, it must come to this. On this principle of shared co-financing for the maintenance of these enterprises or organisations operates anti-urban protection everywhere. Regarding your question about planes. Not only will it be agreed, we now have requests from both Macedonia and Romania, who already have aircraft protection for one, and for us, because the most effective protection is when it is carried out jointly, as the damage after that is not 100%, of course, protection, but depends on the cloud, on the process, when and at what stage of development the impact on it will begin. We have questions, but we are still at the debate stage and it is the National Grain Association that is blocking this law. And to ask me the question that Dobrudja's cereal is out of service, provided that it was blocked from there, is just nonsense, you know? It's just nonsense. I hope, of course, in a spirit of debate that we will come to this consensus, because the medium-term weather forecasts that are available from global European sources show that we, the countries of southern Europe, are entering these changes, where the intensity will be higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u160	And thank you, we still have a lot of work to do. We continue with a question from the National Representative Sevim Ali concerning the project "Restructuring and rehabilitation of a plumbing system in the municipality of Aytos under the sub-supreme 7.2 "investments in the creation, improvement or expansion of all types of small-scale infrastructure from the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020" The site of the investment are the supply of the village of Muglen, the village of Karageorgievo and the external supply of the village of Chukarka, the municipality of Aitos. Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Members of the National Assembly! On 26 June 2018, the Municipality of Aytos signed a contract with the State Fund...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The amount of the approved subsidy is 5 million. Eight hundred and sixty thousand. BGN, with the aid being granted to investments in construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of water supply systems and facilities in agglomerations with less than 2 thousand inhabitants in rural areas, the site of the investment is the water supply of the village of Muglen, the village of Karageorgievo and the external water supply of the village of Chukarka in the municipality of Aitos. In the two settlements there are partially built sewage sewers and due to the expected change of the water supply network in these settlements are not renovated the streets, and this in turn creates exceptional inconveniences and at the same time is a prerequisite for raising social tension and discontent of the people of the villages of Muglen and Karageorgievo. In the village of Chukarka, the problem with the shortage of drinking water, especially during the summer season, has been on the agenda of the municipality's attention for years. In crisis situations, honourable Members, Dear Minister, water with water is being transported and the construction of the water network from the degeneration to the village will solve the problem in part because the water supply network in the village is completely depreciated as it was built about 50 years ago. Given that the contract between the Municipality of Aitos and the State Fund of Agriculture was concluded one year ago on 26 June 2018, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: when will the procedure for determining a contractor be completed and within what deadlines will the construction of the project start - Reconstruction and rehabilitation of a plumbing system in the municipality of Aytos under Sub-measure 7.2 and the water supply of the villages of Muglen, Karageorgievo and the external supply of the village of Chukarka in the municipality of Aytos? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u163	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Ali! Before I answer and forward information, I would only make a note that perhaps you should address it within the meeting of the Aytos municipality council to the mayor of the municipality, as your question depends entirely on the will and organization of the management of the Aytos municipality. However, as regards communication with the State Fund, I present to you the following information: according to art. 50, para. 2 of Decree No 12 of 25 July 2016, the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On 1 August 2018, the State Fund of Agriculture has sent a notification letter to the Aytos Municipality for prior verification of planned public contracts under the Treaty, No According to the quoted notification letter, Aytos Municipality can conduct public contracts for the selection of contractors for the activities under the Project, namely: the selection of contractor for the implementation of construction works on the Project; the implementation of construction supervision on the implementation of the Project; the exercise of copyright supervision in the implementation of the Project. According to the provision of art. 50, para. 7 of Decree No 12 on the implementation of Sub-measure 7.2, the State Fund...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Municipality of Aytos as a beneficiary of financial assistance under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 is obliged to conduct all public contracts for the designation of contractors for the activities under the Project and, in coordination with the State Fund, to proceed to their implementation. In addition: following the verification by the Managing Authority of the Programme, it was found that the applicant of the Aytos Municipality issued an open procedure for selecting a contractor for construction works on the Project on 5 November 2018. The applicant subsequently published on 13 December 2018, a public procurement notice, results of the procurement procedure, showing from the information contained in the notice, that the procedure was terminated by the applicant. On 10 January 2019 a new decision to open a procedure under the Public Procurement Act and a contract notice with a deadline for submission of tenders or requests for participation was published. All I am saying is publicly available on the official website of the Public Procurement Agency and we cannot influence this process. As a beneficiary, Aytos Municipality has issued a decision to rank the participants from 21 June 2019, which is evident from the buyer profile of the official website of the municipality. Following the expiry of the deadline for the submission of complaints to the Commission for Protection of Competition laid down in art. 197 of the Public Procurement Act, the documents from public contracts already carried out should be presented for coordination to the State Fund................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Or what I told you, everything is publicly known about the Aytos Municipality and you can obtain this information yourself. Everything that concerns the State Fund, we have implemented it within the time limits of the preliminary procedures. We now expect the follow-up control and everything within the deadline will be fulfilled, so the rest of the questions should be answered by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u164	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ali, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your quick reaction and for the answer you give me to the question asked about the water supply of the three settlements............................................................................................................................................................... You will now understand why we are putting this issue to your attention: in parallel with the implementation of this project, of course, together with the municipal leadership, I say from now on that we will also raise the issue of the financing of partially built sewerage in the two settlements of Karageorgievo and the village of Muglen, which were financed under the PUDOS in 2009. Last year I put the question to Mr. Neno Dimov and he said: "There is no way that these sewers can be financed under the law now in force. " Therefore, from now on I am saying that we will be looking for funding through the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They are correct taxpayers and expect both the state and the municipality to respond with the same correctness to their expectations, to their purely human demands. And here I would like to give you the signatures from the two settlements, which were handed over to Mr. Neno Dimov last year, these are two signatures with a request to complete the sewers in the two settlements, and this is the current state of the streets, especially in the village of Muglen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat. You will not take this right. Allow me to thank Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Minister of Health. First he will answer a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihailov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov on the policy of the Ministry of Health regarding the personnel security with medical specialists. Dr. Timchev, come in. I understand that you will begin the questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In recent years, the issue of the insurance of the healthcare system in Bulgaria has repeatedly been raised. Problems with the provision of medical personnel are found both in separate regions of the country and generally. One of the most important functions of the Ministry of Health is planning the needs of medical care and medical staff. In this regard, our question to you is: does the Ministry of Health have a strategy regarding the provision of medical staff from different categories of doctors, pharmacists and healthcare professionals, in the different regions of the country and with regard to the estimates of the need for medical personnel from the different categories over the past 10 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u168	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Timchev, human resources in the healthcare sector in Bulgaria face the same challenges as the other European countries - an ageing population and therefore an ageing workforce in the health sector; insufficient attractiveness for the young generations of certain health professions, especially the profession of nurse; uneven territorial distribution as a result of internal migration from smaller to larger settlements; migration of health workers in the European Union and beyond. Despite these challenges, the insurance with doctors in Bulgaria is traditionally high. According to the NSI, the insurance with doctors as of 31 December 2018 is 42.4 per 10,000 population, with the average for the European Union being 35.1 per 10,000. However, the distribution of doctors in the country is uneven. Regional differences are within 2.4 times. The insurance with dentists in Bulgaria is also traditionally high compared to other Member States, even among the highest in Europe. There are also positive trends in Master Pharmacists. In recent years, both their total number and the number of Master Pharmacists increased to 30 years. The number of health care professionals has remained relatively constant for the last 15 years, except for the profession of a nurse. The most important problem for human resources in healthcare in Bulgaria is the small number of nurses exercising their profession. Stimulating the interest in the profession of the nurse can be achieved through targeted influences on the elimination causes of effusion, namely: improving the working environment; obtaining adequate remuneration and optimization of staff in medical institutions in order to reduce the overload of nurses; creating an opportunity for real professional development; validating the nurse's status as an equivalent partner in the medical team and so on. Attracting and keeping nurses in the profession is a complex, nadinstitutional problem. The Ministry of Health within its competence annually offers the Ministry of Education and Science a maximum increase in the number of seats of students in the specialty.. Medical nurse, according to the capacity of the higher schools appointed by the National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation. For the academic year 2019, for example, the Ministry of Health proposed to establish at least 960 seats for students in the specialty of the medical nurse. In the Draft Decision of the Council of Ministers were laid down only 618. In view of our proposal and the opportunities of higher schools, 714 seats for nurses were eventually established, i.e. there is an increase of 96 units. For the academic year 2018 - 2019, we proposed to increase the number of high-school nurse seats by 130 from 671 to 801. As a result, the number of places for students in the specialty of the medical nurse was increased for the academic year 2018 with 47 pieces. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, it is extremely important for the current team of the management of the Ministry of Health that trained medical professionals in Bulgaria should be motivated to stay and develop in the country. The development, amendment and supplement of Regulation No 1 of 2015 to acquire a specialty in the health system provides for the introduction of an effective mechanism for the conduct of the public policy to ensure the necessary specialists. With the amendments to the Ordinance, the Ministry provides to subsidise training bases for places financed by the State in clinical specialities, which is an opportunity for the State to have an impact in the event of a shortage of specialists in certain specialities or in certain regions. In this way, the state policy in providing the necessary specialists will be carried out with funding from the state budget and will not be at the expense of the budget of the medical institutions. After the acquisition of a specialty, the residents for whom a subsidy has been paid will be able to choose the medical institutions, districts or municipalities designated by the Minister of Health, where they will be obliged to work on the acquired specialty for a period of three years. The envisaged amendments also improved the conditions for general medicine specialization. Changes are also envisaged aimed at achieving greater stability and predictability in the employment relations of residents who have acquired another specialty working at the training base or at the university. Another envisaged change is that the occupation of resident posts should be carried out after a competition under the order of the Labour Code. A separate section has been developed for dentists, a relief is provided for the residents in their admission to a state exam.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u170	Thank you, Dear Minister Ananiev. Professor Klisarova, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is related to your last sentences, for which I thank you for taking into account the proposal of which is financed his specialization on the state budget to have a contract and to work for the state, for the Bulgarian citizens, between three and five years. This would be my further question: what is your opinion on this should the Bulgarian doctors who took the specialty of government in the state stay and take their work to the Bulgarian citizens and be their duty? That was my first question. I move on to the second one on nurses: is it possible that the fourth year of their Bachelor's training could be a year of specialization, i.e. they could be profiled as children's, anesthesiological sisters? You know, in pediatrics, they have an extreme need for sisters who understand and can work with children. The work there is more specific and if this year is considered a specialization, profiling, will three years have to work in the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u172	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. Minister Ananiev, you are welcome to answer the supplementary questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Klisarova, I would like to share two things about the additional questions you asked me. Certainly the desire of me and my leadership is not only from the fourth year, but even from the third year profiling to go to help in the relevant medical facilities. We will achieve two things: at the same time there will be a specialization of the nurse or health care professional, and will help the normal functioning of the hospital in the presence of this shortage of staff. The second thing that I share publicly for the first time: since we have the will that residents who support themselves from the budget work in specialties, and in regions where there is a shortage of staff, should we not put on public discussion and students who study medicine after being supported by the state, and they should not have to work on the distribution of places defined by the state, of course, distributed in specialties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u174	Thank you, Dear Minister Ananiev. Professor Klisarova, you're welcome to express your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u175	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister Ananiev, you see how serious the problem with medical personnel is. And this morning, thank you for the fruitful debate we had on the subject, we have proven that it is precisely the personnel in the healthcare system that are the key to quality health care and access to this quality health care. I want to tell you that we are raising this subject not by a party as opposition. On the contrary, this should be a topic in which we all work together. Yeah, we're gonna do cardio-invasive cardiology in Vidin, but who's gonna work there? We're gonna buy expensive machines, God forbid this happens, but how are they gonna be used and who's gonna work on these machines? What about the nurses? And there I think we should discuss one more idea, as there is a doctor's assistant, will there be a nurse, because the nurse is a bachelor, a master, going to Europe? Who takes care of the sick? What about paramedics? We have trained them in different programs, but in reality we do not know their place in the structure of Emergency Aid.. We are still discussing it, and we do not have enough jobs for them. We see the paramedics, the paramedic assistants, they have other demands. We need to arrange this structure, which is not just about money, but also about organization. In this regard, we want to challenge a debate, a discussion, to participate all together by deciding by the end of September to have measures, quick proposals. Why am I saying there should be measures? To bind them to a 2020 budget. Madam President, by thanking Minister Ananiev exclusively for the correct answer, I would like to give you our signatures to debate the debate. Thank you. [[The National Representative Anelia Klisarova gives a folder to the Chairman.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u176	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. "Dear Minister, honourable MPs, in connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 954 00 41 of 5 July 2019, submitted today at 13.29, is requesting a debate on Question, No 954-05-26, of 26 June 2019 and a draft decision on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Mihaylov, Anelia Klisarova, Ilian Timchev, Valentina Naydenova, Ivan Ibrishimov and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Annaniev on the policy of the Ministry of Health in relation to cadre collateral with medical professionals. The proposal for debates and the draft decision are signed by 62 MPs. The requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal to hold a debate on the questioning. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We continue with the following questions to Minister Ananiev. Question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on linking the information in the National Health Information System with requirements of the System for Health Accounts Eurostat and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development based on the International Statistical Classification of Diseases, 10th Revision MKB-10. Dr. Naydenova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u177	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, it is publicly known that the National Statistical Institute and Eurostat process information related to the statistical classification of diseases and health problems that should be comparable, comparable in the different types of health systems in different countries based on the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Health Problems. The health account system is an internationally accepted statistical system that also operates on the basis of different regulations. The health account system, which is at the heart of the work of the National Statistical Institute, complies with this methodology and as a harmonised methodology for comparability of statistical information. The data shall be validated by an international expert team of the three organizations........................................................................................................... Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the question: what actions have been taken or will be taken by the Ministry of Health to bind the information of the National Health Information System to the requirements of the System for Health Accounts Eurostat and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on the basis of the 10th revision MKB-10, updated 2011, to provide timely and reliable health information?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, as you said, the Health Account System is an internationally accepted statistical system for describing, classifying and analyzing health costs and sources of funding. Its main objectives are: to provide internationally comparable information in the system of standard matrices; to define harmonised health sector boundaries and implement harmonised definitions; to analyse the health system from an economic point of view in accordance with the methodological principles of macroeconomic national accounts and classificational incisions of the international classification of health accounts. The methodology and classifications used by the health accounts system have been developed by Eurostat, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (ODA) and the World Health Organisation. According to the Statistics Act, the National Statistical Institute coordinates the statistical activity of the state. It is the point of contact that provides information on the WIPOs to Eurostat, OECD and other international organisations. To carry out this activity, the National Statistical Institute receives information from: the Ministry of Health, a report on the implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Health and detailed information on expenditure in accordance with the methodological requirements of the system for health accounts; the National Health Insurance Fund, a report on the implementation of the budget of the NHIF and information on expenditure in accordance with the methodological requirements of the system for health accounts and others. The above primary information shall be provided to the NSI by official means on an optical medium. In the Ministry of Health is under way the implementation of the Project "Do build the National Health Information System." The project includes activities that will allow automated exchange of information with other institutions, including data on the health accounts system. In short, the implementation of the Project will allow automated submission of data on the health accounts system without the intervention of an operator or other official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u180	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor, Mrs. Naydenova, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u181	Dear Minister, the reason to ask you this question is that as soon as we entered this National Assembly, we sought the possible health information to be objective in our assessment of the health situation in the Republic of Bulgaria and came across some discrepancies in the data that the National Statistical Institute gives to the Ministry of Health and what we have. So far, we haven't stopped looking for information as much as it gets as close to the truth. It is true that statistical information about healthcare is given by end-users. On the one hand, the Ministry of Health is submitting its information and I am glad that you in this project will bet the ICB-10 as the foundation. You mentioned about the National Health Insurance Fund there, however, information is being submitted on the one hand about ICB-10, on the other hand, about no one known clinical pathways in Europe. I can see that's where he thinks he's going. In addition to the regulations to be implemented, I hope that, with the new health information system, we will be able to meet the increased requirements and be able to have comparable data, not only domestic but comparable with other countries in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u182	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. We continue with the next question to Minister Ananiev again by Dr. Naydenova. It is about the usability of beds determined by the National Health Card. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u183	Dear Minister, through the National Health Card, the regional health cards, according to art. 30, para. 2 of the Law on Hospitals is defined the total number of beds for hospital treatment, including by species that provide access to hospital care in the area concerned, as well as their distribution in hospitals and by the level of competence of the relevant structures. It is not rare that a number of hospitals do not report high useability of beds due to the seasonal nature of diseases and others. At the same time, in others who treat patients with severe diagnoses, these are not accepted due to a lack of free beds, regardless of the treatment procedure initiated, I quote some cases that have started treatment with chemotherapy despite the intended bed reserve at 100% useability. Please answer the following question: since the number of beds is determined through the National Health Card for each structure of hospital care facilities, what is the mechanism by which the Ministry of Health manages their effective use?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u184	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, the National Health Card based on the real needs of the population is defined the required number of hospital beds for the types of medical activities. It is necessary to emphasise that the needs of beds by type and by level of competence are not defined in a medical institution but in general for the area concerned. In determining the needs of the number of beds for medical activities by level of competence, certain activities are planned at regional level. For example: medical oncology, radiotherapy, specialized surgical activities, specialized paediatric activities and others. According to data from the National Center for Public Health and Analyses, the total useability of hospital beds in the country in 2018 was 66.1% and the beds for active treatment. The use of hospital beds for medical activities in the specialty of Pneumology and phthsiatry, where there is a higher incidence during the flu season, total for the country is 73.2%. Data on the use of beds in infectious diseases, where there is also a seasonal nature of some diseases, total for the country is 52.9%. With regard to beds in medical oncology it should be noted that the average useability of beds for the country is 64.8%. The organisation of admission to hospital facilities is regulated by the Ordinance on the exercise of the right of access to medical care. It is important to note that the legal act lays down the period for which the admission of health insured persons can be planned for activities included in the health activities package guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. This period is not more than two months and may be extended at the patient's request, by medical indication or if an improvement in the patient's condition has occurred. If the patient's condition worsens, he shall be hospitalised in accordance with the emergency requirements. A mechanism for increasing or reducing the number of hospital beds is laid down in Ordinance No 49 of 2010 on the basic requirements to be met by the device, activity and internal order of hospital care facilities and medical and social care homes. Once a year, in a period from 1 January to 31 January, medical institutions may change the number of hospital beds exposed in their clinics and wards, except for cases of new medical activities within the meaning of § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Hospitals. For this purpose, they shall notify regional health inspections of the change within five days of its completion and shall also provide justification for its need. For its part, the RGI conducts an analysis of the usability of hospital beds by types and medical activities in medical institutions in the field and presents it to the Minister of Health. To conclude, I would like to assure you that our goal is to ensure that every Bulgarian citizen has equal access to health services at all levels in hospital and hospital care in the effective spending of public health resources. That is why I am confident that I can count on your support for the Ministry of Health policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. The line is Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u187	Yes, Mr. Minister, hospital services every morning submit their information about free beds to RZI, respectively RZI offers and provides this information to affiliates and emergency care centres. It's the law, and that's what's in it. But in the ordinary, in real life, things are a little more difficult, especially in the big cities, where the patient in most cases, of course, for him is very important his case, cannot find a free bed to be able to do it in due time. Perhaps we should somehow bind this information, which the RGIs possess, to be accessible to the patient concerned, as he has the right to choose and where to be treated. So, knowing where there is a free bed, you can safely do it, since you are still a suffering, sick person. He's not a patient because he becomes one at the moment he registers with the hospital information system. I think that for greater comfort, assistance and assistance we could somehow expand the accessibility and awareness of patients themselves about free beds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u188	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. The next question to Minister Ananiev is again by Dr. Naydenova "on publishing information about medical institutions on the website of the Ministry of Health." You have the floor, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u189	This question is a little more interesting, Mr. Minister, and I think you will answer very honestly and frankly what is going on right now. In accordance with art. 98, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, medical institutions are obliged to place information on the type and price of all medical and other services provided and how they are paid in public places in their building. Information shall also be published on the website of medical institutions or shall be made public in another usual way, as noted, colleagues, and on the website of the Ministry of Health. Dear Minister, we didn't find such information about all the medical facilities. Therefore, I ask you to answer my question: what measures has the Ministry of Health taken to implement art. 98, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Curtains, if the medical institutions have not fulfilled the provision? Until now, we have pressed you with questions concerning your competence, but let us hear how others perform and how correct they are to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u190	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, in the performance of art. 98 as you said, the Ministry of Health has taken the necessary steps to strictly comply with the legal requirement of the medical institutions to place public and publicly available information in their building about the type and prices of all medical and other services provided and how they are paid. Regional health inspections are the territorial authorities of the Ministry of Health who have the obligation to follow the fulfilment of these requirements by the medical institutions in the territory concerned, namely: providing information from the medical institution for e-mail address and a description of publicly available places in the building of the medical establishment, to which information on the type and price of all medical and other services provided and on how they are paid, information on the requisitions of the financial documents issued to patients for all amounts paid by them, and an established price list of all medical and other services provided by the medical institution and other services completed in format according to the attached model for their publication on the website of the Ministry of Health. With regard to the measures taken by the Ministry of Health in the event of failure to comply with art. 98 of the Law on Medical Institutions, I inform you of the following: The Law on Medical Institutions contains a number of administrative provisions which have been introduced with various amendments and additions in recent years. Such are, for example, provisions introducing administrative information obligations and a specific body or person. The objectives of the provisions and the expected results of their implementation are different. In view of this, in the introduction of all are supported by administrative criminal responsibility. In this regard, in recent months, given the experience gained in the implementation of the Law on Medical Institutions, the Ministry of Health identified the need to introduce administrative criminal liability for the failure to comply with any introduction with it and with a sub-legal act implementing it, for which it is not provided for. The bill currently developed by the Ministry of Health to amend the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine will propose the introduction into the Law on Medical Institutions of administrative criminal provisions for cases of breach of the imposed obligations of medical institutions to provide information for administrative purposes, as well as for cases of breach of any other provision of the Law and of a sub-Law on its application, for which there is no administrative criminal composition. The aim is to minimise the prerequisites for refusal of information by the medical institutions of the administrative bodies referred to in the Law and thus be able to be implemented by the relevant authorities in their full analytical-control activities introduced by law. In order to get ahead of an additional question from you, I want to tell you that what you have carried out concerns us as well. At the beginning of the week I wrote a letter to all the medical institutions with which I obliged them by the end of this week to present the lists of the types of medical services they provide and their prices, so before the entry of the Law we will have this information. However, we believe that everything must be strengthened by law in order to be carried out properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u192	Thank you, dear Minister. Line, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u193	Since we insist on being correct, Mr. Minister, I would only like to take the liberty of drawing your attention to the requirements of art. 98, para. 3 of the Law on Medical Institutions, including Art. 115, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 116 of the same law, which enters into paragraph "Administrative Penal Provisions', where for failure to comply with this law, and specifically to art. 98, we have a penalty with fines and property penalties. You are a polite and ethical person enough, but I use the stands to appeal to all hospitals strictly to comply with the laws of this country! After all, they have been adopted by this National Assembly; we are the people who need to see if they are being implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u194	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. The next question to Minister Ananiev is from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev about the closure of a department at the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. The town of Vidin is Petka. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, after your speech on 26 June 2019 on restructuring and optimization of wards, clinics, hospitals in the Northwest there was quite a lot of anxiety and discontent in Vidin there were two days in a row civil protests with requests not to close wards in the Vidin Hospital. Five o'clock. Today at the hearing, you definitely stated that there would be no closure. In this regard, colleague Popov and I would like to ask you the following question: what will you do to prevent the closure of wards at the University Hospital. The town of Vidin?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Topchiev! Indeed, I have answered most of the questions put to me at the hearing at the very beginning of my participation in the plenary. I think most of them have found an answer, but I will say this very briefly. The Ministry of Health is trying to stabilize the medical establishment and has no intention of shutting down district hospitals, including the district hospital in Vidin. At the meeting with the managements of the district hospitals in Northwestern Bulgaria, Vidin, Montana and Vratsa were discussed the demographic and personnel problems in the region and the opportunities for optimization of the medical institutions. Talks on the topic "Balnik institutions in Northwestern Bulgaria" continue and will be used all legal means and mechanisms to find a balance between the needs of the population in the region of medical care and the opportunities of hospital care facilities. I hope with joint efforts to find the best solution for the future of the Hospital. Petka "JSC" City of Vidin, including not to allow the closure of working wards in the hospital. Moreover, in the morning in my speech I mentioned that there will be optimization of activities in the positive sense of the word of the hospital in Vidin in terms of the new standards that will come out, the rules of good medical practice, the new algorithms of clinical pathways and a number of other instruments with which I believe we will ease the requirements that are put before the hospital in terms of mostly necessary staff and equipment, so that hospitals can work in real conditions and fulfil their functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u198	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Popov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, today in the debates on the Northwest and healthcare in Vidin, Vratsa and Montana, you expressed much of the things we wanted to ask you with this question. It is important that, from this tribune, it sounded that wards and hospitals in the three regions would not be closed, of course, for Vidin. This is comforting for people living in these regions and for people working in these hospitals. You have stated, and this is so that the main problem is the lack of personnel of doctors, of nurses in these hospitals. However, this is a systemic problem and it is not from yesterday or today. It also requires, in my opinion, systemic solutions. Perhaps as a supplementary question: at least some of the steps you will take in connection with the attraction of staff, of doctors, of nurses, perhaps in conjunction with the respective municipalities of Vidin, Vratsa and Montana, district centres, with the Ministry, because we know that a large part of the hospital in Vidin is actually 83 per cent owned by the state, the municipality, I think there is about 7 Because this is a serious problem for Vidin. It's the demographic disaster. We keep saying that here in Parliament. It requires, of course, complex measures and actions, social focus, commitment, government focus to this region not only from the Ministry of Health, but at all as a policy of the Council of Ministers. In particular, however, for the Vidin hospital, how do we plan to attract footage to the hospital, if you have the opportunity, of course, to answer now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will give you a very brief answer, because all these things that we have undertaken are currently being implemented. I have already had the opportunity to say in different places, and I will say it here, from the National Assembly's stands, that for us district hospitals, including the hospital in Vidin, are the blood system in our healthcare. I never thought I'd say it already, shut down a county hospital. If I wanted to appeal to the people who work in this hospital, to the people who are being treated in this hospital, it is that we should do so, to optimize the activities of the Vidin hospital that it really gives quality health care to Bulgarian citizens. In this direction, our intentions are also directed. I said what are the investment intentions of the Ministry of Health regarding equipment and equipment, on the material basis of the hospital in Vidin. We are certainly looking for ways to have talks with doctors from the region, even outside the region, who can fill in the necessary specialists in the individual specialties to carry out the work in the relevant clinics and wards, and this will essentially bring more revenue to the hospital. From there, the salaries of the people who work there can also be increased and the conditions under which they work can be improved. Naturally, to create a greater opportunity in terms of the personnel growth of these people, such as training, specializations and so on. In this spirit, we rely very much on Regulation No 1, which is for specializations. I can now tell you that a significant part of the people who will train and specialize in this regulation will be directed to the Northwest region, of course, including the hospital in Vidin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u202	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating today. You had one hearing today, one question and four questions. It was your day, Minister. Thank you again. We continue with questions to Minister Danail Kirilov. Question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on the publication of the annual financial statements of enterprises, hospitals, for previous years submitted their annual financial statements. You have the floor to ask the question, Dr. Naydenova. That's your sixth question for today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u203	Because many of the questions have been delayed in time and today a rather large marathon, but the end result is important. We already have some ideas, so even for a legislative initiative, so I think it's been fruitful. Dear Minister, under the Accounting Act, enterprises publish the annual financial statement for the previous year by announcing the listing and presentation of the commercial register by 30 June of the following year. At the same time, hospitals are not published and announced in the Commercial Register, which makes it difficult to operate commercial activity, including in the case of participation in public procurement. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer me when will be published in the Commercial Register the annual financial statements for all companies, enterprises and hospitals that have reported and submitted their reports for 2016, 2017 and 2018. ? Something I stumbled upon in the course of my work as a representative of the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u204	Thank you for your question, Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Naydenova! With regard to the time limits for examining the applications entered into the Information System of the Trade Register and in particular with regard to the specific question referred for examining the applications for announcing the annual financial statements, I shall state the following: according to art. 19th para. 2 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, the Registration Officer shall rule on applications for registration and for deletion and on applications for notification of acts immediately after three working days after their entry into the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities. This provision lays down the time limits for examining all applications for entry in the Trade Register, with the exception of applications for the announcement of the annual financial statements. The time limits for examining applications for annual financial statements shall be laid down in the following subparagraph of art. 19, e.g. al. 4 according to which applications for the notification of annual financial statements shall be dealt with in the order of their receipt separately from other applications. This provision is imposed by the practice and the Law adopted by Parliament amending the Law on the Commercial Register, promulgated in No. 34 of 2011, because of the campaign in the submission of the annual financial statements, which took place mainly in June of the year concerned. For this reason, provided that we have a large stream of applications, which is poured out figuratively at a short time, is not within the time limit for their processing, as is the immediate delivery within three days after the submission of the other types of applications for entry. In recent years, the circumstances that are subject to entry and respectively the number of applications to be considered in that order are seriously increasing due to new regulatory requirements because amendments to the Commercial Register Act were made, amendments to the Special Bets Act, amendments to the Commercial Law, entry into force and new provisions regarding the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Therefore, in view of your question about the measures taken to shorten the deadlines for ruling, to enter the annual financial statements in the Commercial Register, I specify: In order to ensure the practical implementation of the legal provisions, internal rules have been adopted. In accordance with the type and nature of applications, requests and acts entered into the Information System of the Trade Register, the Executive Director's orders set out a daily rate of workload for all registration officials and provided for a mechanism in the event of the entry of more than the usual number of applications for work under the conditions of an abnormal working day. These measures aim to overcome the fun. An order has been entered, including a minimum norm and a ruling on applications for the Annual Financial Statement. There is a detailed description of the possibility that registration officials may be separated to examine the applications received for the announcement of the annual financial statements. By order of the Executive Director for registration officials, a certain, I said it, abnormal working hours and they are obliged to fulfil their duties, if necessary, after regular working hours have expired. In 2018, overtime was also paid on weekends. These measures have led to a reduction in pending applications by 130 thousand, with measures to be taken to introduce the annual financial statements for previous years as well. As you can see, the reply of the Registry Agency was very sloppy and unsystematized. Therefore, if I have the opportunity, Mr President, I would like to say the following: please note that it is not only about the entries concerning companies and legal entities, the medical institutions, all the entries, i.e. they are notices of the annual financial statements with the same rhythm of fun. Since I joined the Ministry, I have undertaken a programme to reduce the accumulation of non-inscribed acts, because we have a similar problem and with welded, unlisted notices on the register of special bets, where the importance and usefulness of these circumstances is much greater. But we believe that this fun in time will be overcome, especially now that the system has been strengthened and these three years. Annual financial statements will be announced, albeit with entertainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u206	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Dr. Naydenova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u207	Dear Minister, I am somewhat satisfied with your response, as I understand that you have taken very urgent measures. I hope that these measures will work and indeed shorten the deadline. I suppose this will be achieved. However, the reason for this was that the hospitals are a particular category of companies. So I took the liberty of bringing this issue in so that we could help with all the medical facilities, businesses. So consider that completely benevolent, but also persistent is my question to you. Because in the end, all the hospitals that have handed over their annual financial statements have fulfilled their obligations under Law, paid their fee, also by law. Their documents have not been returned that something is not in order, which does not justify the delay in the entries to the Registry Agency. I have nothing against anyone, but I appeal for a greater efficiency so that we do not interfere, because, on the one hand, you know that there is another register of non-profit legal entities, but in the end, we are talking about hospitals and, as much as possible, I would even ask you personally to do this for hospitals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-05.u208	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Mr. Minister, thank you for participating today. And thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Dear Members of Parliament, next regular plenary session on 10 July at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
