ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, it has been received: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 1707-NS Sofia, 12 December 2019 on the announcement of Stoyno Mitev Stoynov as Member of Parliament in the Second Election Region of Burgas, in the 44th National Assembly With a letter in my letter. No НС-02-27 of 11 December 2019 in the Central Election Commission was received a decision of the National Assembly of 11 December 2019 with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Diana Dimova Savateva as MP from the Second Election Region of Burgas, erected by GERB party in the 44th National Assembly. The Central Election Commission should declare the next MP on the list, given the early termination of Diana Dimova Savateva's credentials. After a check of list A and list B on multi-mandated election districts it was found that the next candidate on the list of party GERB is Stoyno Mitev Stoynov. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, para. 1, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing Mitev Stoynov, EGN..., as MP in the 44th National Assembly from the list of GERB party from the Second Election Region. Please invite the Member of the National Assembly to the Chamber. Colleagues, please stand up for taking the oath. [[Everyone gets up.]] Mr. Stoynov, come to the stand and repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u2	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u3	Congratulations! Thanks, guys. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICATION OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-B-UCB, MATERIAL, SUMPLY EQUIPMENT, SOFTWARE UPDATES, SERVICES AND THE SUMPLEMENT TO SUMPPORT THE ULTIMATE BUILDING MACHINE. Importer: Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019 The Defense Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Toshev. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov in the Chamber on item 1 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Please vote on Mr. Zaprianov's admission to the Chamber. Vote 155 MPs: 143 against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the Law on the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-B-UCB, Materials, Equipment Supply, Software Updates, Services and Maintenance Training of Ultimate Building Machine (UBM), No 902-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019. At a regular meeting held on 11 December 2019, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft Law of the National Assembly on the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-B-UCB, "Materials," the supply of equipment, software updates, services and training for maintenance of Ultimate Building Machine (UBM), No 902-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanasov Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence, and General Andrey Botsev, Chief of Defence. The Vice-President of the Defence Committee stated that on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 et c. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers has submitted to the National Assembly a bill for ratification of the Treaty. The ratification bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanasov Zapreyanov. He pointed out that the Treaty, amounting to USD 478 651, was signed by the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence on 27 November 2019. This contract, which is called a letter of offer and acceptance of the offer, is drawn up according to the requirements of US military sales legislation under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS), which strictly regulates the possibilities for acquiring US military equipment and equipment. It represents an offer with delivery conditions by the US government. Deputy Minister Zaprianov presented to the members of the Defence Committee the need to conclude the contract, the expected results and the financial consequences of its implementation. General Botsev said the Complete Mobile Production Line for Metal Structures is extremely effective and has the potential to lead to improvement of the material base in the Bulgarian Army. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Kolyo Milev, Vladimir Toshev, Valentin Radev, Tasco Ermenkov, Hristo Gadzhev, Boris Vangelov, Milen Mihov, Slavi Netsov, Plamen Manushev and Simeon Simeonov. The majority expressed support for the measures taken by the Ministry of Defence. Specific questions were asked about the need for the assembly line for metal structures, the need to ratify the contract in such short time, for the materials with which the line will work, for the source of financing of the contract, for the monopoly position of the company with which the contract is concluded. Deputy Minister Zaprianov and General Botsev gave comprehensive answers to the questions asked. They explained that the line would initially be used to build the infrastructure of the Graff Ignatievo Air Base. The same can then be used to build different types of buildings for the Bulgarian Army and for the country in case of disasters and accidents. The great advantages over the line have become known after an inspection of the infrastructure based on Count Ignatievo by US specialists in October and therefore had to move the contract within such short time. The funds under the contract are provided by the realised surpluses from the Ministry of Defence's budget for the year. The line works with American sheeting, but a similar line exists in the Italian army and they use their own sheeting. The comments were made that such sheeting can be produced in Bulgaria as well. It was stated that the contract was concluded under the requirements of US military sales legislation under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) programme and the prices offered for Bulgaria are the same as the prices for the US Army. After the debates were concluded, the members of the Defence Committee with 10 votes for the defence committee, without abstention and 8 votes, adopted the following opinion: The Defence Committee proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law on the ratification of an international treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCB, "Materials," the supply of equipment, software updates, services and training for maintenance of the Mobile Production Line for Metal Structures (Ultimate Building Machine (UBM) "No 902-02-31," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Colleagues, I give the floor for debate. I don't see any speeches. I put to the first vote the Law on the ratification of an international treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCB, "Materials," the supply of equipment, software updates, services and training for maintenance of a Mobile Production Line for metal structures. They voted 154 MPs: 106, none, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the bill be subject to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u9	I'm voting on this procedure. They voted 142 MPs: 95 against 4, abstention 43. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Toshev, to present us at the second reading of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u10	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE for the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-B-UCB, Materials, the supply of equipment, software updates, services and maintenance training of the Mobile Production Line for Metal Structures (Material, Supply Equipment, Software Updates, Services and Training to Support the Ultimate Building Machine) A single member. Ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-B-UCB, Materials, supply of equipment, software updates, services and training for maintenance of the Mobile Production Line for Metal Structures (Material, Supply Equipment, Software Updates, Services and Training to Support the Ultimate Building Machine) and signed on 16 August 2019 in the United States and 27 November 2019 in the Republic of Bulgaria. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law, Article one and the final provision supported by the Commission. They voted 154 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 49. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the Law. You're welcome, Mrs. Sabeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the votes Draft for Supplement to the Property Act, with importers Milen Mihov and a group of MPs, to be extended by two weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 145 MPs: 122, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! We just ratified an international treaty (LOA) BU-B-UCB. Since such ratifications are repeatedly imposed and similar cuts of contracts are read, and since we are talking about Latina and each of our colleagues obviously has different knowledge, pronunciation and this causes a jolly moment in the hall, I suggest, because it is Latin, that the Latin language be read as it is accepted to be used in Bulgaria to eliminate these confuse moments. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. We'll discuss your proposal. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLETION OF THE LAW FOR REFUNTING CLIMATE CHANGE. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. The report will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u16	Thank you, Madam President. First, I would like to make a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov.. Deputy Minister, Zhelyaz Enev. Director of the Directorate of Economic Policy.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Voting regime for the admission of the persons read. Vote 128 MPs: 118, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u18	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a bill supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. At its regular meeting held on 11 December 2019, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the bill supplementing the Climate Change Reduction Act. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov. The bill aims to introduce a mechanism to support enterprises from industrial industries and subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage because of the cost of greenhouse gas emissions in final electricity prices. The indirect costs of carbon emission allowances are those costs which electricity producers make to purchase the allowances they need, which are transferred to the cost of electricity purchased by final customers. The main consumer of electricity in Bulgaria is the energy intensive industry. It is these undertakings that are identified as being exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage. According to European legislation, the notion of carbon leakage includes the prospect of increasing global greenhouse gas emissions when undertakings shift their production outside the European Union because they cannot pass on to their customers the increase in costs without suffering a significant loss of their market shares. They are at risk of losing a competitive advantage on the world markets, of basic production, which generates the basis of gross domestic product, of jobs and of other negative economic, social and environmental consequences. The compensation for indirect emissions costs will be implemented by transposition of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/410 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2018 amending Directive 2003/87/EC in order to enhance cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments and Decision (EU) 2015/1814 and subsequent notification of State aid by the European Commission in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The special act setting out the conditions and requirements for compliance of the support mechanism with European legislation is: Guidelines on certain State aid measures in the context of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme after 2012, and Annex II sets out industrial sectors and subsectors which are exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage. Directive (EU) 2018/410 also lays down the source of funding, namely the revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances under the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. Member States should endeavour to use no more than 25 per cent of that revenue. Bulgaria will benefit from its right to use up to 25 per cent of this revenue for the time until the end of 2020 after receiving a positive decision from the European Commission. It is envisaged to issue a regulation by the Minister of Economy, which is a competent authority within the meaning of the Law and will be the administrator of the aid. This regulation will lay down clear criteria, deadlines and conditions, including a smooth decrease in the amount of aid to ensure that there is no excessive compensation for beneficiaries. At the same time, it shall be supplemented and art. 57, para. 1 of the Climate Change Restriction Act, which governs the expenditure of the proceeds from the sale by auctioning the allowances allocated to Bulgaria for this purpose. In view of the fact that the proceeds from the auctioning of allowances and emissions are entered into the "Secretary System Security" Fund and their purpose is regulated in the Energy Act, in the Transitional and Final Provisions are provided for and additions to art. 36b, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 36d, para. 1 of the Energy Act. In addition, in relation to the provision of information by the Commission on energy and water regulation for the purposes of the scheme and its reporting to the European Commission, an addition to art. 21, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 36, para. 5 of the Energy Act. The time limit provided for in § 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the bill will be implemented in accordance with the Regulation on the order and manner of the collection, spending, reporting and control of the funds of the Fund. Written opinions on the bill were received by the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Energy, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Federation of Industrial Energy Consumers and the Union for Business Initiative. The Ministry of Energy and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory insist for the purpose of prior clarity, sustainability and avoidance of recalculations on the amount of revenue and expenditure of the Energy and Water Regulatory Fund. 10a of the Bill to be explicitly stated that the annual amount of aid must not exceed 5% of the total annual revenue received from the auctions for the sale of allowances. Following the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, the Draft for Supplement to the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. The second report is from the Committee on the Environment and Waters. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a draft law supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. At a regular meeting held on 28 November 2019, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading the Draft for Supplement to the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Boryana Kamenova Director of the Directorate of Climate Change and Mrs. Svetla Angelova Chief Expert in the same Directorate; from the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Zhelyaz Enev Director of the Directorate of Economic Policy and Mr. Grisha Zahariev Chief Expert in the same Directorate and representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Metalurgical Industry. On behalf of the importer, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Zhelyaz Enev. He explained that the draft introduced a mechanism for supporting enterprises from industrial industries and subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage by the cost of greenhouse gas emissions in final electricity prices. The conditions and requirements for compliance of the mechanism with European legislation will be regulated by a regulation of the Minister of Economy, which will be applied after notification and approval by the European Commission of the proposed mechanism. Industrial industries and subsectors whose undertakings may apply for aid through the mechanism are set out in Annex II to the Guidelines on certain State aid measures in the context of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme after 2012. The representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water expressed support for the bill and clarified that they participated in the working group for its development. They pointed out that the adoption of the Bill is a step towards overcoming the disadvantage of our energy intensive industry, as other Member States have already introduced such aid. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Manol Genov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Rumen Georgiev and Anton Kutev. Issues related to the deadline for granting aid were raised at the end of 2020, how individual steps in the development of the Ordinance, notification and approval by the European Commission of the compensation mechanism and when undertakings will be able to receive the relevant aid. A question was raised as to why Bulgaria should introduce these measures only now, given that the other Member States have already introduced them and which sectors will be covered by the possibility of granting aid. A proposal was made for the Ministry of Economy to provide the Committee on Environment and Water with the final version of the draft Ordinance, in which the conditions and arrangements for granting aid to undertakings will be laid down. The importers clarified that the draft Ordinance is ready and is at the final level of coordination within the working group. Until now, the support mechanism has not been introduced, because in the old directive the requirement is not imperative, but in the event that the Member States wish to introduce a compensation mechanism, they must use funds from the state budget. The directive has now been changed, with countries being obliged to introduce such a mechanism and the revenue generated by the sale of greenhouse gas emission allowances is defined as the source of the funds. Representatives of the Bulgarian Association "Metalurgical industry" expressed their opinion that it is important for them to introduce the support mechanism quickly. At present, 13 economic sectors are included, mainly in the field of heavy chemistry and metallurgy, with the highest share of electricity consumption. The European Commission is also expected to continue the mechanism after 2020, and will also increase the number of sectors that will be able to be supported, and it is currently unclear which economic areas will be from. After the discussion and the vote were completed, the Committee on Environment and Water with 13 votes in favour and 4 votes abstentions supported the draft and expressed the following: opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for supplementing the Law on Climate Change, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019 "Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u21	Thank you, dear Matsurev. The next report belongs to the Energy Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Maleškova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. At its regular meeting held on 28 November 2019, the Energy Commission discussed a bill supplementing the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Zhelyaz Enev, Director of the Directorate of Economic Policy, Mr. Grisha Zahariev, Consultant from the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mrs. Boryana Kamenova, Director of the Directorate of Climate Change, Mrs. Svetla Angelova, Senior Expert from the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation: Ivan Ivanov, Chairman. The bill presented by Mr. Zhelyaz Enev provides for the introduction of a mechanism for supporting enterprises from industrial industries and subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage, due to indirect costs of greenhouse gas emissions at the final prices of electricity. The indirect (indirect) costs of carbon emission allowances are those costs which electricity producers (mainly power plants) make to purchase the allowances they need in order to function fully. As a result of the purchase of these allowances, the costs incurred are transferred to the cost of electricity purchased by final customers. The main consumer of electricity in Bulgaria is the energy intensive industry. It is these undertakings that are identified as being exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage. The costs for which aid is granted are those for which electricity producers realise to purchase their greenhouse gas emission allowances and which transfer to the cost of electricity produced. In the absence of a mechanism so far to compensate the base industry for indirect emissions costs, businesses are suffering financial losses that could stimulate them to move their productions outside Bulgaria and the EU in the near future. This would mean the loss of basic production, which generates the basis of the country's gross domestic product, job losses and other economic, social and environmental negative consequences at national and regional level. The proposed additions to the Climate Change Reduction Act (CAIC) aim at transposing the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/410 on a mechanism to compensate the indirect cost industry. The creation of art. 10a in the SCIIC, which regulates the issuance of a specialized sub-legal regulation by the Minister of Economy, which is a competent authority within the meaning of the law and will be the administrator of the aid. This regulation will lay down clear criteria, deadlines and conditions in accordance with Directive (EU) 2018/410 and guidelines, including a smooth decline in aid to ensure that there is no excessive compensation for beneficiaries. At the same time, it shall be supplemented and art. 57, para. 1 of the ZIF, which governs the expenditure of the proceeds from the sale by auction of the quotas allocated to Bulgaria for this purpose. In the course of the debates, the need for a revision of the texts was identified, as setting out the precise budget amount of aid and defining clear criteria for granting it, as the Impact Assessment of the Bill identified about 190 possible beneficiaries and the discussion referred to 30 "40 beneficiaries'. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held the Energy Committee with 10 votes....................... 7 against.................................... and 1 vote.......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Maleshkova. And the latest report is from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! Your attention is: ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Climate Change Restriction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. At a meeting held on 21 November 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined a bill supplementing the Climate Change Reduction Act, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister of Economy." A major instrument of climate policy in the European Union is the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading. It was introduced by Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and by Directive (EU) 2018/410 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2018 amending Directive 2003/87/EC in order to strengthen cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments and Decision (EU) 2015/1814. A significant risk to the industry in relation to the functioning of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme is the risk of According to European legislation, the notion of carbon leakage includes the prospect of increasing global greenhouse gas emissions when European companies move their production outside the EU, as they cannot transfer to their customers the increase in their costs associated with climate change without suffering a significant loss of their market shares and competitive advantages. Some non-EU countries where competitors of these European enterprises are established do not apply strict rules to reduce climate change, as a result of which businesses from these countries are economically more profitable. This is because the cost of their production is not burdened by additional costs such as indirect costs of carbon allowances. Direct (indirect) costs of carbon allowances are the costs that electricity producers (mainly power plants) make to purchase the allowances they need to function fully. As a result of the purchase of these allowances, the costs incurred shall be transferred to the cost of electricity purchased by final customers. It is these undertakings that are exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage. The proposed draft aims at establishing a harmonised legal framework in the Climate Change Reduction Act, on the basis of which a mechanism to support enterprises from industrial sectors and subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage due to indirect costs for greenhouse gas emissions in final electricity prices. In the absence of a mechanism so far to compensate the base industry for indirect emissions costs, businesses are suffering financial losses that could stimulate them to move their productions outside Bulgaria and the EU in the near future. This would mean the loss of basic production, which generates the basis of the country's gross domestic product, job losses and other economic, social and environmental negative consequences at national and regional level. The compensation for indirect emissions costs will be implemented by transposition of provisions of Directive (EU) 2018/410 and the introduction of a mechanism to support industries and subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage by means of a notification of State aid by the European Commission in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Directive (EU) 2018/410 also lays down the source of funding for the scheme, namely the revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances under the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. It is also determined that Member States should endeavour to use no more than 25 per cent of these revenues. The special act governing the conditions and requirements for compliance of the mechanism with European legislation is Guidelines on certain State aid measures in the context of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme after 2012. (Guidelines). These Guidelines shall have an application horizon until the end of 2020. The proposed additions to the Climate Change Restriction Act aim at the precise transposition of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2018/410. The creation of art. 10a in the SCIIC, which regulates the issuance of a specialized sub-legal regulation by the Minister of Economy, which is a competent authority within the meaning of the law and will be the administrator of the aid. This regulation will lay down clear criteria, deadlines and conditions in accordance with Directive (EU) 2018/410 and the Guidelines, including a smooth decline in aid to ensure that there is no excessive compensation for beneficiaries. At the same time, it shall be supplemented and art. 57, para. 1 of the Law on Climate Change limitation, which governs the expenditure of the proceeds from the sale by auctioning the allowances allocated to Bulgaria for this purpose. In view of the fact that the revenues from auctioning allowances are entered into the Fund, the Security of the Electricity System and their purpose is regulated in the Energy Act, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Act supplementing the Climate Change Act are provided for and added to the Energy Act. After the discussion, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so- proposed bill and concluded its discussion with the following results: 9 votes for The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill to supplement the Law on Climate Change, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to express our principled support for the proposal for the Supplement to the Law on Climate Change. Climate change is an undeniable fact and the consequences of it, you say, affect to a greater or lesser extent all sectors of the Bulgarian economy. The main objective of national policy in this area is to reduce the adverse impact on human health, ecosystems and the national economy caused by climate change. With regard to legislation, a great deal has been done, with the Climate Change Restriction Act in force since 2014, which provides a common legal framework. At the end of October this year, the National Strategy for Climate Change adaptation and Action Plan for 2030 was adopted. The Strategy for the definition of objectives and priorities for improving adaptation capacity forms measures, the necessary resources and responsibilities of the institutions are defined. It also outlines the risks and vulnerability in the various economic sectors, cross-sectoral links with regard to these risks and vulnerability, as well as the macroeconomic effects of climate change as a whole. Bulgaria also participates in the European scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading with 127 installations across the country. Over the past year, carbon emission prices have risen by nearly 130 percent. This has a direct impact on direct costs of carbon emission allowances for industrial enterprises and indirect costs of electricity prices. In order to achieve the European Union's ambitious climate targets, these costs should be increased in the next period of the 2021 scheme. This is particularly adversely affected by high-energy undertakings that are threatened by what is called carbon leakage. Some countries outside the European Union do not apply strict rules to reduce climate change as a result of which businesses are in a more profitable economic situation. This could lead to a real shift in certain industries outside the European Union. In order to protect the interests and preserve the competitiveness of undertakings, the Directive introduces a mechanism for their support in the form of State aid. The directive also lays down the source of funding for the Scheme, namely the revenue from the generated sale by auctioning allowances. Currently, Bulgarian enterprises are disadvantaged against their competitors in third countries as well as in Bulgaria... [[Noise, excitement and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u27	Colleagues, please be quiet! It's too loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u28	...no compensation mechanism is in place. The same applies to competing undertakings from the European Union itself, where such a mechanism is already in place to compensate indirect costs. It is for this reason that this bill needs to be adopted. Through the Law in our national legislation, the requirements of the European legislation will be harmonised, a mechanism for granting aid to companies at risk of carbon leakage will be introduced at national level, will improve competitiveness and business conditions in Bulgaria, as well as investment climate and economic confidence in the country. To conclude, I believe that, with the support of the Bill, we will express in our clear position the protection of Bulgarian enterprises that are at risk as a result of the measures introduced by the climate change policy. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov, then Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is going to be a gentle debate without a particular bait without saying things with their real names and without having at least three ministers here respectively, because the topic concerns them directly, fried reports from the committees, abstentioned by the opposition, by the BSP sad work. I have set an example for you at one time with that joke from the golden lattice of socialist times, when they gathered the workers in one room and at one point told them: "We will hang you! " These days in the media there are some messages that do not mean anything good in the energy sphere.. titles, analyses, that in five years there will be electricity regime. Have you read them? Did you see them? Did you pay attention to them? That we need to quickly increase the price of electricity with artillery training, because now if we increase it, it would be on some readings at 27.8% increase, but if we increased it in a year or two, then the increase would be 40%. And all this is the preparation of the public consciousness for what is largely predetermined by today's bill, by today's vote. At the moment, we are nothing else, but a voting instrument, to make a law of the will of Brussels bureaucrats and of foreign interests. Because at the heart of all this psychosis is the state of France, which has its own interest, which produces its currents mostly from power plants, which also has its own interest in Romania with the nuclear power plant, which shut us down four blocks of the nuclear power plant, and is one of the most active ones that prevents us from building Belene. These are all relays that I do not know who catches, who understands and who understands, with this mutual and universal lie how small Bulgaria with our thermal centres will affect the global climate and Europe, which has about 10% share in global pollution. Well, President Trump, with whom we are such friends, we have seen him very recently, has a slender thesis on the issue and policy in this regard. But who here of our politicians, of our foreign policy representatives and activists, should stand up and tell these truths? There's no one! And today, pre-Christmas bells, Dyadomazovtsi or Santa Claus, depends on who defines this character and gets it, Snow Whites, snowflakes, we will vote on something that will have consequences for decades in Bulgarian energy. Enough of this mutual lies and nonsense: society, the state would pay, and elsewhere some carbon emissions would be paid from abroad. Who? At TPP 1 and 3, so American owners can generate their huge profits. Is that what we're doing right now? Well, that's what we do, of course. That way we can keep going to that apocalypse. A government in a very short time, which will it be, or the next, argued that we are protecting the environment, for protecting ourselves from carbon emissions, to raise the current. And the Bulgarians will be convinced that this is natural, normal and we will continue on this background. Look, the state of France, which is at the heart of this whole Uidurma, is now forcing us to jump, let's say: a new transport policy. You know the failure, one of the biggest failures in the last 30 years of Bulgarian national interest. It's a complete failure! Some trucks that go back and forth in Europe to avoid being competitive on French, which trucks will increase carbon emissions a great deal, all of you are aware of this, and at the same time they are making us throw and pay crazy money for this right again on carbon emissions, but spent through electricity production through thermal power plants. In this very room about ten years ago, when the construction of the nuclear power plant was stopped, Belene, some people of yours stood right here, and promised. Their main argument was that it was not patriotic to produce electricity from the available resources in the form of coal and therefore should not be, but patriotic not to make nuclear power plants where the fuel was foreign, dash Russian, then. So, what's the logic? It was highly patriotic at the time to stop the nuclear power plant "Belene" and it could have, and it was good to do, with the idea of producing electricity from thermal power plants, and now this needs to be limited. And what will be produced by electricity? These lobbies, these paid pressure groups, such as many of the Zelenite, have declared themselves against nuclear power plants, if you will, and against the fins, because they were pushing, killing birds, including against the photovoltaics, that they were creating one oscillation, one magnetic radiation, which was not also ecological, against the hydropower plants, because the fish were dying on the mountain rivers and dams, are now against the thermal power plants. Depends on where the money comes from, the grants, what they're interested in. There's no energy they can support to stand up for, at the moment, the TPPs are on target. And because for Bulgaria, after four units of the NPP have been liquidated, Kozloduy, the heat power plants give the vast majority of the product, of the electricity, in Europe will not be harmed by the French, we will be harmed. Let's take our hands and jump against this yet another blow against the Bulgarian national interest, we have a reason at the moment to do what is done with the transports, this outrageous act that was voted, and to take response measures. This is the case in politics, who has the courage to do them and to answer them, will have it, will exist, and those who are intruding and lurking, and perform the will of foreign masters without a doubt, run away in history.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u32	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shopov, I take this line because in your speech you paid attention to what the position of the BSP is without being stated at all and you should know what it is. But since you've touched on this subject, I'll tell you what our position is. Our position is that at the first reading of this bill we abstain. I'll tell her what the reasons are. I would like to note that I have listened carefully to your speech and I understand from the statement that you are not quite familiar with what is proposed in this bill. It does not concern any power plants and so on what you were talking about. It concerns the following: 5% of the harmful emissions fund to be allocated in the form of aid, subsidy to high energy-energy industries, mainly related to the processing of metals in Bulgaria. This state aid is done this way because these Bulgarian producers should be competitive against their European competitors and not only European but also global competitors. On this side, BSP supports this proposal. What disturbs our parliamentary group is the way these enterprises are defined. At the beginning, when the discussion on the scope of these enterprises began, there were about 180 companies and subsequently there were about 30 companies. What concerns us from the Bulgarian Socialist Party is the way in which these beneficiaries are defined, and nothing else. This is precisely why we at BSP will refrain from supporting this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Shopov? There won't be. Mr. Nikolov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Perhaps it is not bad to explain in fact what this law is about, because obviously there is also a misunderstanding somewhere, and some colleagues do not care about this topic and do not need to be aware, so it is nice to perhaps say what this is about. Bulgaria forms revenues from the saving carbon emissions over the years, having a base year and the actually saved carbon emissions from this base year the state can sell them on the markets and this makes the Ministry of Environment and Water. With the amendment of the Energy Act in 2015, we made it possible for all revenues to enter the Energy System Security Fund. In fact, they come into this fund as part of the revenues it forms, with 5% from the production of electricity, from the green supplement, from obligations to the society, which is formed by the price of electricity, and compensates for all the obligations of the State against contracts made, on the one hand, with long-term contracts with renewable sources, and, on the other hand, with the TPP.Maritsa-East 1 We know that it is quite normal in the Bulgarian industry in order to be competitive, to return 80% of the green supplement to enterprises that meet the conditions. A notification has been received following a Ordinance by the Ministry of Energy "The Minister of Energy is a managing authority in relation to this notification, and this industry is compensated by the green supplement, these 33 undertakings proposed to this law as an example will eventually be compensated. In any case, they will not be so, because some do not meet the conditions of Directive 410/2018, but will be much less. In reducing obligations towards society by the Commission's price decision on energy and water regulation, this supplement which they received on the basis of the regulation and notification is much smaller, and this actually makes energy-intensive enterprises unable to compete with European such undertakings because of the fact that both France, Germany and many other countries under this directive receive aid in terms of carbon emissions as compensation. This directive does not specify a specific percentage, and it says the following thing: if more than 25% of the carbon revenue is needed to go to these enterprises, the European Commission must be very motivated why these 25% are exceeded. For this reason, the 25% threshold is laid down in the Amendment and Supplement Bill. In fact, if we take the Commission's cost decision on energy and water regulation, the revenues in the "Secretary System Security" Fund are of the order of 850 million. BGN, which comes precisely through the sale of carbon emissions. If we take that 25% should be the maximum ceiling for which we do not have to explain to the European Commission why, with a higher percentage, we should compensate them and take 25%, then just over 200 million levs and several million levs should go for a certain number of enterprises that meet the conditions in the Bill and will subsequently be described in detail in the Ordinance which the Ministry must issue. Really, allocated to 33 teravathours of electricity, these are somewhere between seven and eight levs, which must be placed in obligations to society, which is part of the component that forms the price of electricity. In any case, the public can't accept that. Therefore, in all cases and in the debates, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission categorically said that it does not agree with such a percentage. They believe that in the order of up to 5%, which is estimated to be about 40 million. BGN, can be bearable and that's about a lev. It does not necessarily have to be an increase in the cost of an obligation to society, but it may be a moment of non-absorbing its value and they may be able to obtain the opportunity to use this money by saying that money is not given to them to increase their profits, and they have to turn it into energy efficiency or put it into some kind of programmes. This must also be noted in the Law, and I think it is a failure that this money must go for specific purposes rather than to increase or offset the revenues of the undertakings concerned. Why do we have to adopt this bill? In my opinion, we must accept it, because ultimately the backbone of a country, the revenues of a state, the social activities of a country are based on production. We strive in every way to stimulate this production so that it can create jobs, import taxes and be able to have a foundation on which to build its social policy. When, in a Single Market, we have countries that compensate these enterprises, I can tell you that there are countries that pass over 40% of the carbon emissions revenue that redistribute to their energy-intensive enterprises, then in this case our companies will experience a competitiveness deficit against them. We must monitor these processes and be adequate in order to attract, of course, foreign investments, in order to keep the production available. Provided that all high-level experts predict a crisis, others say that it may come soon, and there is no crisis yet, but there is a decline in the economy of the leading economies of the EU countries anyway. This is a signal that we need to monitor the processes, we need to be adequate and one way is with this bill. I think that this bill is in the right direction, but in any case, between first and second readings, the parameters must be specified in order not to burden consumers of electricity I propose that our group support this law in particular, and I call on other colleagues to look at it from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u36	Madam President, honourable Members! Of course, every step in a particular direction towards lightening these processes is good. But how good is the version of the Bill?! You know, colleague Nikolov, that we have been reported in the reasoning that 190 enterprises fall within the scope of this amendment. Turns out it was 30. Secondly, being even in the context of these 25%, which we do not exceed as redistribution, there must again be a notification regime that has not been made by the Bulgarian State. Thirdly, the logic, content and meaning of the European directive is that money is not to support the price of electricity to producers, not to bring them in and pursue a social business policy, but to finance innovative projects, innovations and technologies that are energy-saving. With my greatest respect, just to read and add compensatoryly to the price of electricity for 30 manufacturers, this bill also sounds irrelevant to the Directive. We will most likely abstain at least at first reading on this bill or will not support it. An innovation fund must be made which, by regulation, indicates who are eligible for funding if they apply energy saving innovative measures and technologies, and a dotation per piece, of a kapak, I do not think it is correct. In conclusion, I recall that it was under the pressure of the big business that you and I were firmly behind last year's position that no electricity supplements, no preferences, no bonuses could be given. Six months later, what these importers wanted, they put it this way: give us now preferential funding and dotting because we are not competitive. Yes, when they start acting competitively, innovatively, and there is a fund that under certain conditions to finance energy saving measures, then there will be justice. So this is our position. Thank you. Otherwise, I say again: every step is good.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nikolov, you rightly said that if you reach the ceiling of 25%, it will affect the price of electricity for citizens, ordinary consumers of electricity. According to the chairman of KEWR, Mr. Ivan Ivanov, including he calculated in the Economic Commission that reaching 25% would mean between 6 and 11% increase of the current of the citizens at the expense of the business, according to the business itself for the last year there is about 500 million profit. That is, we will burden the Bulgarian taxpayer, who is already having difficulties with his daily expenses, at the expense of the business, which already has big profits. The other problem that we saw in the Economic Commission and which the lawyers themselves said to the National Assembly that the texts in the proposed bill are written with extremely many gaps, there are inaccurate texts and the very quality of the bill is not at the level that will solve the problem. They themselves said that they feared that between first and second reading the work of normalizing these texts, putting them in some frames to be able to function normally, would be a very complex process. For these reasons and the reasons that we have expressed as opinions and colleagues, we cannot support this law despite the positive reasons that you have also referred to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Is there gonna be a third line? I can't see. Mr. Nikolov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u40	Dear colleagues! By the way, I am very happy about these lines and thanking my colleagues, because I really think like you do, but let's put things in their right places. First, for those carbon emissions that the state sells and receives, the logic is as follows: the polluter pays and buys carbon emissions............................................................................................. These carbon emissions that the state has saved and received are not to compensate for electricity. In principle, it must receive them in order to encourage precisely reducing environmental pollution and energy efficiency. That we have put them in a fund with which we are trying to compensate electricity, I do not think it is the best option, but this is the only way to have social tolerance of the price of electricity in Bulgaria. Thank God we did it in the Energy Act, it does not compensate the unit and the troika in long-term contracts, but can be used to compensate for the price of long-term renewable contracts, which is a way to implement the Directive. I personally think that the logic in this House should be as follows: The Economic Commission should support this law, because it should support the economy, competitiveness; the Energy Commission should also be "for" this law, because in this way it will really support energy efficiency and support renewable sources, i.e. Bulgaria will have new capacities, I say, for example, if there is a fund, and this money is used for precisely such purposes; the Social Commission should only be against because the Social Commission would say that people are not obliged or for example, that some groups of people cannot bear the cost of electricity if it is really such as it is on electricity markets. But with us things are always reversed, always mixed, always wrong. Therefore, I think that if we really work, Mr. Kostadinov, you are absolutely right, to put the restrictions in the Law, to do what this money can go for, in what way to support innovative and energy-efficient actions, I think it will become a good Law and, above all, to satisfy all claims and concerns about it. We really do have a lot of upside down here. In Europe, this money is used precisely for innovation and energy efficiency, and we are doing it this way to compensate for the price of electricity not increasing. Unfortunately, that's the starting point we're heading from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! Perhaps we should also say certain numbers: emissions from 8 euros per tonne, currently 25, and next year is expected to become 30. This in one year has led to a 40% increase in the price of electricity. the energy for the big industrial producers. This energy affects their cost accordingly. With the adoption of this bill, we will, of course, return a piece, but not frighten people. This is not 25%, but 5%, which will have no impact on the final price of electricity. the energy for the population. The other thing that my colleague Nikolov is very right about is that money should be spent on certain events, but not so that some of the companies themselves who will receive the money do not get to these events, because there is a business that, naturally, seems to be earning very well for last year 500 million, for the latter I think it was a billion and something. Unfortunately, there are companies that have not yet brought their productions in the right way, but we must not cancel them out in any case, so it is very important. The criteria themselves, as my colleague Prodanov said, are set out in the directive. So we're not the ones to determine who and how much we're going to take, because it sounded like we're kind of going to decide who we're going to give to now. I call on everyone to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There has been a debate on this bill, but it seems to me that at least two things need to be made clear. The first is that at the moment the discussion and adoption of this bill means that there is no government policy in support of the Bulgarian industry. This needs to be made clear now, because, fellow Members, the directive to which we refer, by adopting this bill, was amended in March 2018, and it obliges Member States to accept precisely these financial compensations for this energy intensive industry, which has a direct risk of carbon leakage. We are currently in the month of December 2019. We are talking about a palliative measure that will work only six months. There is no government policy in support of the Bulgarian industry. We are facing a real risk of loss of production, loss of gross domestic product and hence loss of jobs. There is no mechanism by which this energy-intense industry can compensate its indirect costs it is required to make, given the rising prices of carbon emission allowances on the final price of electricity it is currently paying. We are the last member state of the European Union, which, I would not say, is even experience, introduces this type of compensation for its industry. So this needs to be made clear with this debate right now. I don't fit into the scope at all, which companies are, because in the committees in which I was involved, it never became clear what their number was. Separately, it must be clear and one more for more than a year this circulates between the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Energy and finally finds its place in the Ministry of Economy, which is an importer of this bill. There is no doubt, and each one of you knows what the European Commission's policy is towards the transition of a low-carbon economy and what the growing commitments and burdens will be that the industry will have. However, we have no answer for our government policy in this field and in this area to preserve Bulgaria's competitive advantages. Finally, what we are not going to support this bill for right now, because the mechanism proposed to do this is the easiest one at first reading, but it does not solve any of the major issues facing the Bulgarian energy sector or rather the major deficits, the lack of reforms and changes in Bulgarian energy. We are making the easiest money in a fund that we have created for a whole other purpose and quite another support for the Bulgarian energy system, we are currently taking this money and giving it to the industry. After all, we transfer the truth that has to be said that the price is on the end-user of electricity. All these arguments give us no reason to support this bill, despite the desire to have a clear state policy in support of the Bulgarian industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Mr. Nikolov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u46	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Boychev, I do not agree with you that the government has no policy in relation to our industry, with companies, with the economy, because the most direct way to be able to implement policies for promotion is tax policy. Tax policy is a revolution you've made. Thank you for bringing her into the previous coalition. This is absolutely correct in the sense when you introduced 10% corporate tax and 5% dividend tax, but it is harder to keep it. I believe that this is the policy that the government is properly pursuing in order to promote the competitiveness of our economy. That's the direct target. All other measures, as you can see, are palliative, temporary and so on. This is the long-term way for our economy to be competitive, given the circumstances surrounding this competitive intensity and so on. Otherwise, I absolutely agree with everything you said, only I saw two lines in your opinion, which I think are antagonistic. One is that this has long been introduced into other countries and that we should have introduced it too. On the other hand, we should not introduce it because it is the price of electricity that forms the final price of electricity that consumers use. After all, the price of electricity is formed by competitive, market value, which is formed on the Energy Exchange in Bulgaria, which increasingly becomes part of the energy exchanges of neighbouring countries, given the unification in the European Union. So that's where we have to look for the key. That's the price of the market price. That is, we must release this market more and more, and it is our duty, which is also late.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! I just had a line made, and now I see it's time to answer for the misunderstanding. Here the Law has narrower dimensions and it concerns a segment that almost benefits the industry. This concerns me, I am talking in this sense and I am warning you about a system of such laws, which will have terrible adverse consequences for Bulgarian society and Bulgarian national interest. This is how it is done: one yes, another no; one can to some extent be praised, one can be supported; one measure at first glance to look benevolent and positive, but undisturbed, slowly, little by little in this law, and there will be some more, we will move towards it in a few years, and with the increasing number of electric cars that will increase the need for electricity, to reach the inability to satisfy the needs of society, to increase the prices of electricity. This law is part of the whole scheme, and by accepting it, we are going with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Boychev, will he have the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nikolov, the debate we are having right now is not about the country's tax policy, but it is about the specific bill. My argument to express that there is no such type of government policy in support of the Bulgarian industry is largely based on the refusal to implement any reforms in the energy sector and the accumulation of more deficits in this sector and even this announced success for the introduction of liberalisation of the market and the stock trade of electricity, is currently leading to the fact that the Bulgarian industry is currently paying one of the most expensive electricity in the region. That is why I say that at the moment there is no policy and the price of refusal and poor governance of this sector will ultimately pay for it all - the Bulgarian industry and the Bulgarian consumers, because you cannot escape these problems of the sector and they will hold you sooner or later.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria has always supported measures for the development of the Bulgarian economy, but has supported them when they really were for the development of the economy, as a clear way to increase people's welfare and not for the development of the economy as a clear way to enrich individual representatives and owners of large enterprises. If you want me to tell you in simple terms what is going on in this bill, things are clear and elementary for several companies that are not yet clear whether they will be those on the list or some others, because the criteria under which they are made are unclear, we will reduce the price of electricity. If this is a reform, tell him health! In other words, several businesses, several consumers will receive electricity at a cheaper price. The dispute is whether to be 5%, whether to be by 15, by 25, by 30, or as someone told us: in Western Europe there was also a 40% decrease in price. Colleagues, this means that if we lower the price on them, someone else needs to be raised. This has to be compensated. Electricity isn't free, there's a price. And as usual, in order to make some richer, we will take from the poor, from the ordinary consumer, from the citizen, we will raise his price, so that we can compensate, in fact, reduce the price of each other's consumers. And I ask: where is the so-called constitutional equality of everyone before the law, before the requirements, before the state? Or perhaps the problem here is such that these business owners have access to the Prime Minister, go and persuade him: let us do one such action, which is supposedly in favor of the Bulgarian industry, and the ordinary consumer, the one who protests on the streets, cannot go and explain to the Prime Minister that he is starving. That's what this is about, nothing else! I must tell you that what you are proposing here to be accepted will not help with anything, because, first of all, if it comes into force if it is notified, which is not at all certain that it will happen in the way it is proposed, this measure may start operating from 1 July next year. Not before 1 July, because then it will be the price period. And do you know how long it's gonna take? By the end of the year, because that's when this mechanism ends. In fact, what you are proposing is a measure of 6 months, which may happen if the European Commission decides to notify, and within the time limit, our amendments. Knowing how fast the ratifications are moving, given the previous one, which was in terms of green energy, I highly doubt that this law will ever come into force, but it creates problems. It creates problems for the state's electricity security through additional money drains from the Electricity Security Fund, which will go into the pockets of certain owners. Apropo, let me tell you: those enterprises to which this aid relates, this support, I will return to the word 'assisted', last year they made a profit of 600 million. lv. And as a gift, we've decided to simplify another 33 million from next year. BGN to make them feel even better. At the same time, the Bulgarian citizen pays every day electricity, which is impossible for him as a price, precisely because of such policies. And since we have several times talked about how to support these enterprises, because it is about assistance, let us include the big producers in the Social Assistance Act, where others are, so that we can really, by supporting them all. This is not a social policy, this is not an energy policy and this is not an economic policy. If I were in the place of the Ministry of Economy, instead of looking for a way to reduce the price of electricity for certain consumers, I would think about how to organise or fund, as my colleague Nasko Kostadinov mentioned, or some other mechanism to develop an industry with high added value and low energy costs, they are interconnected in order to be able to actually produce such production, which is of high added value, ergo to produce more gross domestic product. Until the time to which our industry is limited in production, which is intended for other production, i.e. low-value production, relative energy costs cannot be covered and cannot be compensated. For this reason, we are not going to support this bill, because once again, I say that it places inequality on consumers, on the one hand; on the other hand, favours, in our view, a very narrow range of consumers, distorts the market and poses a risk to the state's electricity security and its economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. A line, Mr. Shopov? You don't have time. The ten minutes have passed in speech and cue. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Atalay, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am sincerely grateful to Mr. Valentin Nikolov for doing everything he can to explain to the MPs what this is about, but because he is from the ruling political power, there is no way he can say what I will say to you, not because I am from the opposition, but because the MPs, when we vote, have to make the right decision. In this Chamber, colleagues, I do not see any MP who opposes the economy against all those enterprises that produce production in Bulgaria. In this House, colleagues, I do not see anyone who, for one reason or another, opposes the aid of those enterprises that have added value and thus will be competitive in both Europe and the market. I do not see anyone who does not support the Climate Change Directive, and we in this part also agree. However, we do not agree with the lack of communication between the institutions in Bulgaria and the subsequent coordination. The lack of communication has led to the fact that through the Transitional and Final Provisions, based on the directive, we are trying to take some money from a fund that is clearly called the Electricity Security Fund. In this fund, fellow Members, certain funds have gathered, through which we must do everything possible to track down last night's debates in the European Council, that energy has those means by which, during the transitional period, we can move from high-carbon electricity production to new innovation technologies, because we are very late. And I ask myself: who, and why, without entering into communication with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, who and why, without taking the opinion of the Ministry of Energy, has taken the liberty of taking some funds and misleading enterprises in Bulgaria, are we not against these enterprises that will receive certain funds against Christmas, Christmas gifts, or do you understand after the New Year? It's a very big misconception, colleagues. There is no way in this short period of time that these funds can be used and taken, even though it is a mistake to take from this fund and distribute them to certain enterprises. That's not gonna happen. Secondly, colleagues, in the Energy Commission well that Mr. Ivan Ivanov was present. He was worried about two things. There is no way that these funds, which will be taken out of the Fund and distributed, will not affect the cost of the community's fee obligation. Mr. Nikolov here told you that it is within 7 BGN. However, he allowed himself to remain silent for the next 10 years, GERB said that they would not increase the price of electricity and thus decapitalise the energy companies, thus the TPP-2 next year will go bankrupt, and in fact with this move you will increase the price of electricity. In order not to be misunderstood, these enterprises, which for one reason or another do not release carbon emissions, as in Europe are trying to help their energy-intensive enterprises, must do everything possible to make this happen in Bulgaria. I even took the liberty of asking in the Commission: If we had supported the energy-intensive company, we would now have made metallurgy and we wouldn't be looking for a pocket knife to import metals from Russia or America. I'm closing the clamp. That is why, colleagues, our concern and we, as well as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, agree in the first part of the directive, to support the Bill, but in the second part we will abstain with clear awareness. We heard from GERB that between first and second reading there will be a change of at least 4%. Do you know how that sounds to me? At that time the socialist, when it was said: The price of production, of bread or of electricity will rise by 10 cents, the whole people cry out: Can such a thing? And finally, when Todor Zhivkov said, "It won't be 10 pennies, but 5 pennies," the celebrations started. Something like this is going to happen now, which is very unpleasant. How and how should the funds be distributed? Only against projects which, through these funds, will be invested in innovative new technologies in any enterprise, whether it is energy-intensive or not energy-intensive, to which you want to spend the money. Who's gonna determine that? It's still unclear. You have a regulation that you have prepared to which enterprises will be allocated the funds. But against what? About what? Next year, after right now, as you promise, if it's not 25%, because at 25% of this fund, you will divert 220 million. BGN, if it is 4%, you will give away the New Year's gifts - about 33 million. lv. Colleagues, there are no criteria. What we should do next is how and how the funds that will come out of there will be controlled is also unclear. In fact, this is another bill which, due to lack of communication and coordination, was reviewed by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and amended the Energy Act. Another proof that you still can't, or purposely in the Transitional and Final Regulations, make those amendments so that the people's representation can't understand what you're doing. The control, colleagues, or indeed the governance that is currently a fact, what you are going to do today, will mislead some business owners in anticipation of being competitive on the European market, and this is not going to happen, you will mislead the European Commission that we have introduced the directive, and in relation to this directive we will comply with the requirements of the European Commission, because if we comply with the requirements of the European Commission, we have to deal 220 million. That is why my proposal is to drop the second part in amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, in fact then there will be nothing left. That is why, colleagues, is our concern. I'm surprised at the BSP! They went out and said, support all this, and because of you the price of electricity is in this state, which is now because GERB, worried by you, do not explain to the public that the price of electricity in Bulgaria is not high and the wages, the income of the people are low. Therefore, once again, we will abstain from adopting this bill... [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" We will do the same. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u55	Great!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u56	...and we will follow from there how and how those funds will be controlled, which will be distributed by this fund, which Mr. Redcondev still protects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Climate Change, No 902-01-58, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019. They voted 144 MPs: for 93, against 3, abstention 48. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, a little more attention. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose to be included in the Programme for Work of the National Assembly in today's meeting, 13 December, the following additional point: Please, voting mode. Vote 137 MPs: 133 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u58	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making the procedure... the time limit for the second reading of the legislation on climate change adopted in the first vote to be extended to the maximum, as expressed by the Commission by the Legal Directorate. Texts must be seriously refined and there should be time, as well as colleagues have expressed some of their concerns, proposals should be tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 132 MPs: 130, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 3, p. 2 and para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Todor Bajchev as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and elected Rosen Malinov Malinov as a member of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Please, voting mode. Vote 134 MPs: 131 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. And one more suggestion: Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 1. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Todor Bajchev Bajchev as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please, voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this today, we have finished the plenary section. Dear colleagues, at the Club of the National Representative the girls' choir formation of Evmolpeya from the city of Plovdiv will congratulate us with its musical works on the occasion of the coming Christmas and New Year holidays. All Members of the National Assembly shall be invited to attend. We proceed with parliamentary control at 11.15. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u60	Hey, guys! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 6 to 12 December 2019: A question was received from the National Representative Ivo Hristov to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science in dealing with the functional illiteracy of Bulgarian students. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 December 2019. A question was received from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Anton Kutev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, about planned and implemented policies through the budget. The plenary sitting should be answered on 20 December 2019. Written answers from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on issues of the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of three questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Denitsa Sacheva on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. Colleagues, we continue with discussions on the questions of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Manol Genov, Atanas Kostadinov, Lubomir Bonev, Milko Nedyalkov, Vasil Antonov, Ivan Valentinov and Tasco Ermenkov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in order to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need for investments in infrastructure in the plumbing sector, in order to improve the quality of service offered to consumers and financial instruments provided for this. The above request, No 954-05-51, dated 20 November 2019, was answered at the meeting on 6 December 2019. Friday. At the same meeting 60 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 6 December 2019. Friday. A second draft for a decision of 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament was introduced on 12 December 2019, Thursday, and sent the same day to the Members of Parliament in electronic form. Projects tabled for decisions to be voted on: 1. Draft decision submitted by 60 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 2. Draft Decision submitted by 10 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of "The Movement for Rights and Freedoms" No 954 02 139, of 12 December 2019, registered at 13.06. I give the floor to the importers within 10 minutes to present the proposal for a debate. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I realize that the discussion of water problems, the water sector and the so-called water reform in our country is a ball of absurdity, large-scale nothingness, and in the end we have the guaranteed effect of boomerang. I don't know how much paper weighs all the active, planned, promised measures in the last ten years, but it doesn't matter. We roll the topic, responsible institutions often stutter on it. I want to mark the drastic case in Pernik. Severe, I'd say, unforgivable relapse of carelessness, irresponsibility and a little leadership naivety. We thought they wouldn't understand us, all this would pass, we'd get away with it, only in this particular case we have collected all the absurdities of refusing institutions to control this sector, sanctioning access to drinking water and thus deprived a whole city of access to it. The chaos with the use of water from a dam of national importance is extremely strategic, and ultimately the helplessness of the control institutions to cope. It turned out that the prime minister literally shoved the resignations into the pockets of a governor and a district manager, and we all sighed that things had gotten better, but no! We continue to wait for who will bear the responsibility for how no one has seen, heard, and realized that they have strayed more than the permitted by law in emergency cases. And that for months. The same months for which the Minister of Environment and Water personally vowed, and I stress, in writing, that the diversion of water is within the normal range of even at the end of the year, the volume of the dam "Studena" will be fully restored. But that's not how it happened. Santa's not gonna save the victims of either the Perniks or the experts covered by responsibility. There was a downfall, like the call of a distant head of state, waiting for everything to go away. To this day, we have no answer to the question: where was the state and who keeps the commitments to exercise permanent and preliminary control and to sanction such situations? Because, to tell you the alibi, that diverted waters only in emergency mode, is an excuse a little bit like kindergarten. Colleagues, however, I would now like to get back to the big topic of water reform. For ten years we have been rolling this topic with a clear awareness that not only nothing is happening, but it is almost walking with confident steps towards failure. The truth that recognizes her is pretty scary. Water reform is almost thwarted and imitated. And it's not people's fault that they don't accept this reform as something that directly affects them. For over 20 years, our country has been carrying out supposedly water reform commitments. For over a decade, we have also made commitments to the European Union for the same. Again in the World Bank calculated that at this rate Bulgaria could actually reach a reformed water sector after thirty years. The problems with this refusal to reform are very serious. In 2017, we made a commitment to the European Commission to reduce water losses below 50% and in 20 years to 30. The necessary investments to this end are billions of euros, and from now on the commitment of the European Commission to cover them absolutely in the future will not be so great. Huge is the problem with the water companies themselves in all directions. We close our eyes to the fact that there is a need for almost doubling of the so-called average combined prices for water supply and water purification for the simple reason that water companies may not be able to bear even their current costs. Only a few days ago, the first analysis was announced that the entire sector's assets were 11 billion. lv. So what's next? Why do you need this inventory? The most likely answer is that this will be the basis on which water operators will seek their co-financing, their associations will receive bank loans. However, then these credits, in order to pay for decades, must be calculated investment costs, and this simply means the cost of water. And that's inevitable. The fact is that the damage in the public water supply is over 55%, half the population of European Bulgaria is being beaten without treatment plants and public sewerage. How many years have we been saying that it takes 12 billion to reform really? We are sitting here waiting for the real consolidation of the water companies to take place, just as we have made the commitments and have spent a hundred million writing strategies and projects, and there are very few. We're waiting for the finale of this process to have 28 structures ready, but it wouldn't! There is great resistance to reform, there are bad governments, but at the same time the use of this system for populist and political purposes. The strategists of this reform will not deny that our country made a commitment to Europe to finalise the reform of the water sector by 2016, after the same reform had started in 2010. None of this happened. It is preferred to act on fire, with a specialized interagency council regime, status of unconditionally needed projects, so at least that's how the first of them will start. What's done in that order is still early and too optimistic to say. In a few days, we're going into 2020. It is precisely that, to the end, we need to absorb another billion euros from the Operational Programme of the Environment. Hope should also be available for rural areas, where they should be able to absorb a dozen times less money than these. The truth is that the waiting will continue at least until 2023, but during this time the price of water will not wait, but will continue to rise and the duty motive for this will be investment in the sector that people will not really feel. According to data from two years ago, regardless of the funds invested, only 1% of the existing network in Bulgaria has been replaced, and for the unenlightened I would like to say that it is about 90 thousand kilometers. Where is the effect and investment on the appreciation of this service? One more thing I would like to emphasise is that the European imperative, in order to obtain funds, is to show high efficiency in the water sector when it offers the service to a large number of consumers. At the same time there are areas, I would give an example with Blagoevgrad, whose municipalities refuse to join the district water associations and thus hinder the change of infrastructure with Euro-financing. The State regulator is only placed in a one-way action to approve the requested price increase, while once increased parameters are not allowed to change them after the Commission has adopted the operator's so-called business plan. There is no ambition to require at least a minimum control of the water sector through the licensed equivalent of other energy operators. And the so-called social tolerance in the cost of water in many places strikes the upper threshold, after which prices are deliberately held back and that does not help anyone. My fellow Members, I am stopping here not because there is nothing to say about the looming failure of this reform. I'm stopping because we're wasting time and it's really getting hopeless. Therefore, we, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, make accents from the most urgent problems in the water sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u62	Read the Solution Project, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u63	On the basis of the Rules of the National Assembly, the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group (BSP) offers: "1." By 31 April 2020, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall prepare and submit to the National Assembly a draft Law on Water and Water to ensure a long-term solution to the problems in the sector, including social tolerance of the prices of water services and the introduction of water aid, quality of services and provision of additional financial instruments to increase investment in the sector and increase control of their implementation. 2. By 30 September 2020, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall propose to the Council of Ministers an update of the Strategy for the Development of the Water Sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Ali, will you also present your Project for a solution? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u65	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The water reform case, as well as the colleague before me mentioned, is very serious. We are talking about reforms in the water sector, reforms in the water companies for nearly 10 years, but more than 15 years, but this is not happening. The main problem here is that we do more politics than social activity towards the citizenship of the Republic of Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, we know that over 14,300 employees work in the water sector. Not everyone has the expertise to meet the conditions in this sector. We also know that, before all elections, we appoint such persons as are responsible for the policy in the settlements rather than for the water sector itself, and this deepening of the problem in all water activities is also today's example with the reservoir "Studena" in the town of Pernik. Honourable Members, this problem is about to happen because of global environmental problems. This is about to become a national problem related to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. If no measures are taken, and we are the people who need to do this, this problem will be the main case of the Republic of Bulgaria because of these problems, which are about to happen not only in Pernik, but almost throughout Bulgaria. These dams, which are of national necessity, and those that are to be built as well as the proposals of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, will be a fact, but in years' time, if we successfully commit to implementing these projects by the new programming period of the European Union and by the national funding that is expected to be invested in this sector. There are many problems, there are many examples. I will give just a few examples to make it clear that what we are talking about from our parliamentary group has been warning for several years that this sector will have a problem. One of these examples is in the six municipalities, in the six cities, where in the 21st century there is a water regime and more than 310 villages in the Republic of Bulgaria, which once a week have a drinking water supply. This is a problem that in the 21st century I am even ashamed to say it, because there is no such miracle in the European Union. We must make a priority of money, apart from national programmes and from those of the European Union under operational programmes, namely in those, firstly, six settlements, in those over 310 settlements, and then think about completing or building new water sites, where we can solve fundamental problems of citizenship and industry in the Republic of Bulgaria, where we expect investment. Without water, without roads, without lighting there can be no investment, there is no way these issues can be solved. One of these problematic places is, for example, Omurtag Municipality, where for years, perhaps 12 years there has been a technical project that has been funded by the Ministry of Ecology at the time, and there is still no realization or funding by the state and by European projects, see, for the reasons that they do not meet certain requirements of the population, this is the policy and such negotiation moments there were when negotiating the innovations in European design and financing. This, unfortunately, nowadays, is still a problem of citizenship, and it is not just Omurtag. These are also many other municipalities where there is and is about to have such a problem because of the global environmental disaster. With this Olympic tranquility that we have, and the carelessness that we need to consider as reforms,... has not yet taken place. In the water sector employees work, and first there had to be started with reforming. Those responsible for monitoring water sites must be experts. In Pernik, if there were expertise and, you see, to get almost to ground zero almost on the water object, this process wouldn't have happened if there was awareness from experts. I guess because of the election, at least that's what I think, these things have been covered up and misinformation has caused today's problem in the town of Pernik. Dear friends, honourable Members, if this goes on like this, we will not have a water sector, we will go further and we will not be able to realise what we have put as a priority 15 years ago. This is the country's number one priority, because this is a kind of service, this is national security, this is a major problem. First, we need to look at national security, the supply of citizenship, and then everything else - roads and other infrastructure, underground infrastructure, the change of plumbing and sewerage networks and those that are about to happen in the future, with new designs. My fellow Members, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and for this purpose we propose in our decision and I hope that this will be adopted, first of all, there will be optimization of the state composition of the water companies and information to the National Assembly within six months and second, annual report of the reinvestments in the water sector in all directions of their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Colleagues, I will read you the time available to the parliamentary groups. The parliamentary group of GERB I'm opening the debate. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! I appeal to all responsible state and municipal institutions with an appeal and a call for joint, rapid and effective action to overcome the water crisis in the town of Pernik, affecting 100,000 Bulgarian citizens. In essence, the question concerning the prevention of a water regime and the need for investment in the water infrastructure. The impact of the lack of a comprehensive policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in the water sector is Pernik, perhaps Shumen, Sevlievo, Pleven and Lovech. In the last two years, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has been informed of a number of problems identified in the work of the water operator, in particular Pernik, including: found inefficiency; failure to invest in the technical infrastructure approved by the business plan; lack of specific requirements in the contracts with the Water Association; failure to comply with the legal obligations of the Water Association, and problems in implementing the provisions of the Water Act. The company reported losses of 80% on the transmission network at 68%. Investments in the public water supply assets of the company of 200 thousand were reported. BGN, at 440 thousand bets BGN, that is, twice as much. No water control plan has been provided for the use of water as intended for domestic subscribers. For the last two years, there has been no monitoring of the water supply quality of domestic drinking water. You don't know the number of subscribers that talks about misincasing. Management errors and infirmity are obvious, it is obvious that the lack of control over the consumption of water volumes of the dam "Studena" is obvious, the lack of control over the huge losses of drinking water in the water supply network of the town of Pernik is obvious. It is obvious that the lack of real control over the realization of the business plan of the city of Pernik, regarding the replacement of the water supply network, is all in Pernik; it is unacceptable that the chairman of the water association, the former governor, should not know about the water crisis, should be informed days before the announcement of the water regime affecting 100 thousand Pernicans. All these and many other facts categorically lead to the conclusion that the water sector is in crisis, and perhaps in collapse and 300,000 people suffer. The water crisis in Pernik is an illustration and an example of the fact that there is absolute government powerlessness, the soullessness of a city with hundreds of thousands of inhabitants. The clerical approach to the water crisis in Pernik did not work, and the transfer of the ball between the ministries did not work. Decisions are needed in the short and long term; control, expert, institutional and civil; transparency and awareness of residents of the town of Pernik suffering from a water regime caused by improperly taken or untaken decisions by state institutions. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Ali, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor again about the question of water companies. There is one such problem on the ground, perhaps in each area there are such examples, where water is on a gravitational path, water supply is on a gravitational path and is from its own water sources, and that is why the colleague mentions Blagoevgrad, they therefore do not want to enter the Water Association, thinking that this way their water will be cheaper. There is regulation here because in associations the price is the same for the whole association, i.e. for all municipalities in the country that are included in this association. In this regard there are also such settlements, however, where, despite the presence of a huge volume of water and water objects, it is not supplied with the idea that they are on a pumping system, they are more energy-intensive and this costs more money for the company itself as expenses. First of all, we have always wagered in the water sector social policy towards citizenship or compulsory supply of water to citizens. At some point it is so that in order to save from electricity, from more costs, given that in other places are a gravitational path and we save from electricity networks, from electricity, we leave people in mode once or twice per week, precisely because of the fact that you see, our costs are very high. I ask you, Madam Minister, to check this by field, to request this information from all the water companies and their directors, and you will see for yourself that this is unacceptable in the 21st century. These settlements, despite expensive electricity, must be supplied every day when water resources are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u71	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are really debating an extremely important topic, namely the state of the water sector. Here the negotiators showed a number of problems that have occurred over the years and, unfortunately, the conclusion is only one: lack of adequate measures by the Ministry of Regional Development in the water sector. I'll open a clamp, because I can assure you that Pernik is not an isolated case. From this tribune I have spoken repeatedly about what is happening and in the area in which I am elected, namely the Shumen region. The situation is almost identical. Here, a series of ministers in the last six years have explained the same thing about how they care about the water problem in Shumensko. In the final we have the following situation: a dam that feeds two districts of Shumen, Targovishte and the municipality of Veliki Preslav, which to date is 50% of its volume and, if the Lord does not give any rains or floods to this dam, I am convinced that by spring it will lead us to the condition in which there are currently Pernicans. Moreover, perhaps those present do not know, but those who are users of this water know that this dam was built in the 1980s for drinking needs and to date it is still for drinking needs, irrigation systems feeding water to the city in a water pipeline that is extremely depreciated. Another thing is the most expensive water currently in Bulgaria is in Shumen. There is a judgment of the court that said that this water is unfit for drinking and nothing is being taken in this direction. I can give a very certain conclusion that the lack of solutions, at all the non-participation of the Regional Ministry, as it is a majority owner in a water company in the past, shows that all legal and economic consequences for the water operator, not only for Shumen, but for the whole country, are detrimental. I can say that the MRDP has been covering up for years along with all the state institutions the problems that exist there. I ask: where is the sanitary zone of this dam; how is water taken; what water given to people? Just to remind the Minister that she promised that when she entered office, she would reduce the cost of water and tell her news: the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission announced that from 1 January the cost of water would rise by 12 cents in the region and become 3.52. What are we talking about? For what investments? Why have you allowed yourself over the years, despite the investments made under various operational programmes, to continue to have immense losses in the water and money water company in the city, it has gone bankrupt? Well, it's not a one-time thing, this water company. It is at risk at the moment of the implementation of the investment programme under Operational Programme "Environment". What will the state do? Here Mr. Goranov came and explained: "Well, we don't have a strategy now. I asked him then: Will the State intervene, will anything help to do? I ask: Did you make a revision to see what has happened over the years, because this has happened in the last ten years and a personnel policy, management and all kinds of cover-up problems? Because it's a common problem, and it's not just here. I would like to ask my colleagues on the right: why don't they take a position, speak, make their proposals to see them, we're not the only ones talking here? Because this water will stop in their fountains, not just in our fountains, and their constituents. We're waiting for the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u73	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! One of Bulgaria's greatest riches are its waters, but we are also the epitome of the folk saying "Water gass, thirsty walks!" The cause of this debate is specifically the crisis in Pernik, but the problem is complex and national. The explanation of the drivers is usually with the climate. If it rains, wait for a dam to flood you, like in Miziya; if there is a drought, do a prayer for rain, so that you are not in mode! That's convenient, but it's not a true explanation. Let's see what are the reasons why 320 thousand Bulgarians today are in need of a regime in the country at the risk of increasing them. First of all, out of control there were dams for doing business. Five hundred million by decree of the Council of Ministers, i.e. outside the budget, outside the normal procedure of parliament, were voted for emergency renovations of dams. Most of them can be seen in the report of the State Consolidated Company and are already distributed 1 million in 2017, 442 in 2018, and from there a complete fog. Where did they go? How many dams are being repaired by what procedures? From which companies and so on? There's nothing to know about that money, about their effectiveness. In 2018, Minister Karanikolov told us that the state does not yet know who owns 153 dams. Ten years of management of Borisov failed to establish the ownership of the dams in Bulgaria and 153 are deserted and out of control. The second reason for the crime was destroyed. Irritative systems were destroyed. They sold out, cut the pipes. What has this led to? Until floods and a lack of water farming. The third reason is the outdated infrastructure. Water is lost according to official messages of the KEWRC "Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory," 60%. The richness of Bulgaria? The water runs 60% into the ground! And at the same time, you've only repaired 0.5 percent of the network in the country, again according to official data. The next reason for the situation of the sector is doubts about corruption. I'm sure you know that Pernik has been running around for weeks with all kinds of versions of that 32 million that were allocated to repair the dam and didn't produce a result. We're hoping the D.A.'s office will do its job there. Next is the fifth reason, poor water quality. Strelcha, Haskovo, the whole Pleven region, in Shumen and in many other settlements people drink dirty and dangerous water. Even in Shumen, the district court ruled on a citizen's complaint and said that water is unfit for drinking and the price that is set there should not be paid. The sixth reason is total administrative chaos and management lack of care! The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works transfers responsibility to the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Environment and Water to the district managers, the district managers of the water companies, to the dams of the State Consolidated Company, to the mayors or to the municipal councils and no one knows who is doing what in this sector. Against the background of everything I have described so far, you are constantly raising water prices. You reached BGN 3,40 in Shumen, BGN 3,00 in Varna, BGN 3,35 in Dobrich. On 20 November 2019, in a statement from here, from the stands, I assumed that you would increase the price of water again for next year. I just let it go, but today, a month later, that's a fact. Yesterday the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission announced new marginal water prices and is a paradox, and it is a mockery that this increase starts from Shumen, where the water has one of the highest prices, where the court ruled it unfit to drink and where water regime is expected within weeks, within a month. That's where you decided to increase the cost of water. People pay, nearly seven million Bulgarians pay for incompetent management of the sector, administrative chaos and corruption. Seven million pay for the actions of a hundred people who led the Bulgarian citizens to this state of state a regime and high prices for poor quality and poisonous water. How do these things happen in Europe? We want it to be the same here. We suggest that you think about water aid several times and you always reject it only because BSP probably offered them, but this is what happens in some countries in Europe on the topic of aid to the population in such situations. A reduced VAT rate of water is available in Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and England. There is a social tariff for social poverty in Austria, Belgium, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Slovakia and not to continue with more countries. There is targeted aid for people who cannot afford to pay water in a number of European countries, such as the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Hungary, Luxembourg and England. And look at what exists in many European countries, a ban on water supply interruption. It's a ban! And today, I repeat, 320 thousand Bulgarians are without water. It is forbidden to interrupt water and supplies to the population in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and England. Finally, European practice provides financial assistance to people with low incomes who cannot pay their water in 22 European countries. This is what we want for Bulgarian citizens, as in Europe, because they are European citizens! While you are making a strategy, while you are solving your problems with corruption, while recovering 95% of the network that is falling apart, and while you are selling beds to people who do not have water, enter water aid! If you do not want to hear BSP's proposal, see what Europeans do. And if we are going to be a European country, accept this proposal and think about how in the budget to resolve this issue. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Perhaps we will be surprised to announce to you that we accept your proposal and will support it! [[Applause.]] Of course, we can't help but suggest some minor adjustments to the proposal. There will be an editorial amendment which will be proposed by our colleagues, but we will in no case be silent on the subject and present our position. To a large extent, what you said, I do not agree. Much of the speech was more in the field of populism and as apocalyptic handwriting, but there are things I agree with, and now I will argue why. I would like to remind you that the Water and Water Management Development and Management Strategy is the result of a long-standing work by various political forces, starting in 2009 with the adoption of amendments to the Water Act on a proposal from the then triple coalition. The government of GERB subsequently developed it in detail and in 2014 it was adopted by the government of Oresharski. In this sense, this strategy and its implementing rules, the action plan, can be said to be a non-party document, which further confirms the thesis that the problem with the water supply is overparty and the problem must be addressed by all of us with the same sharpness. We fully support the idea of creating a new Water Act of the Regional Ministry, as this law will be in response not only to the requirements of the Strategy, it will also be in response to the need for greater efficiency in spending the country's water resources. At the administrative level, this law will contribute to several things, first of all, will take out the specific fragmented matter that is currently distributed into several legislative and regulatory acts, will introduce it into a special law, bring together the whole legal framework on ownership, on governance, on the management, on the provision and regulation of water services, on the planning and financing of water companies, of course, will also lead to a reduction of administrative burden and simplification of regulations. The more serious expectations of this law is precisely the consolidated management of the water sector, where the aim is to have one service. It has been mentioned several times by the stands that there are areas in which this has not yet been achieved, with the idea that, you see, some of the municipalities will pay lower prices because of their natural resources, but this is a paradox on which we have to work very seriously in the future. Something very important that you mentioned, this is maintaining the social tolerance of the service. This task must set the new law in order not to jump the boundaries so that people can safely pay the service they need to receive, but it must be sufficiently quality. And, of course, providing long-term contracts between water associations and water companies, which will give a great sustainability in the sector. The law should also reflect the historical, geographical, demographic and climatic conditions of our country. We recall that more than 90 thousand kilometers of water network are built in Bulgaria. These 90 thousand kilometers were built 50 years ago. This network is dimensioned to different conditions. It is measured for 9 million people, for a completely different type of economy, diameters, hydraulic inclinations, the materials with which this network is built are already obsolete, depreciated to a large extent and this leads to large losses. It leads to large losses not only because of depreciation, but because consumption is also reduced. In the case of reduced consumption, the water quantities to be fed, as 30 years ago, for example. This further generates a lot of costs for water companies and they are in such a constant process of increasing costs at the expense of declining revenues due to reduced water use. On the other hand, however, this service, the provision of the water service, has its social dimension. It cannot be discontinued by the State. On the contrary, it must be developed on an even larger scale, so, conditionally speaking, in two words: we at the entrance of the service have a free market, and at the exit we have overregulation. This leads to all these losses and all these shortcomings that we have been commenting on so far. Therefore, there is the challenge of finding a systematic approach to financing the sector. We can't solve problems in a piece. In this regard, there are proposals that I think are adequate to form central financing for water investments generated by certain fees that are related to the maintenance, operation and conservation of the water resource. Last but not least, it should be noted that in the context of climate change, there is no way not to cause damage to the water sector. We are currently witnessing significant weather anomalies that contribute largely to the current problems. We are currently witnessing long periods of drought and at the same time short-term, intense heavy rain. This largely brings the entire hydromeliorative network to a great test. They are not sized for this type of load. You know that 40 years ago the climate conditions in the country were quite different. Therefore, a new expert approach to reconstruction and the construction of new facilities is needed. On the one hand, they must provide the necessary large volumes, which are generated in a short time, and re-assign them successfully in the network without leading to floods. On the other hand, they should also store them for a long nap when we have periods of drought. One such dam, for example the lake..Studena, which was mentioned, which is with a one-year leveller, provides the water for only one year. A comprehensive strategy is needed in the construction of dams. They should already have a greater perspective, be with multi-annual equalizers that accumulate larger water volumes so that they are not dependent on a large, long dry season. The strategy also envisions investments for a 10-year period within approximately 11 billion. leva, that was mentioned. To date, however, it appears that these funds will most likely not be sufficient. In this direction, the state does very little. You know that almost 4 billion were provided under the European Structural Funds. lv. for both periods. A significant amount is also expected for the next programming period, but these funds are, let's say, about 30 - 40% of what is needed. Therefore, the State in its programme has developed additional funding methods for the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Regional Development, so that this deficit can be reached. However, action is needed not only for the Ministry of Regional Development, as is the attack at the moment. There is a need for action by many departments. These are also the actions of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Interior are also affected, so coordination between different departments is needed in order to really deal with the crisis. A few words about Pernik, as this is the main topic of today's debate. As rulers, we clearly understand people's anger. In no case can we distance ourselves, bury our head in the sand, and say: "There is a problem there, someone to solve it! " - On the contrary, you see that a number of measures are being taken to a large extent all these problems to be solved. It is perfectly natural that when a human good is taken away, discontent is generated among the population. I can set an example with my community. Five years ago, we performed a water cycle in Rakovski municipality, and I remember perfectly what a situation people were facing. I remember very well how difficult it was for people to be deprived of regular water supply, how difficult it is to overcome such a crisis. We therefore come to understand the problem and take absolutely all adequate measures in the situation. Of course, we can't just blame nature for what's happening right now. Yes, there is most likely guilty and yes, those guilty must bear the full weight of the Law. So in all its actions, the Regional Ministry has taken the difficult task of solving the problem. A number of meetings have been held with experts, professors, practice engineers who have proposed different options, perhaps this Minister Avramova will say it in a moment, so Pernik has already acted. There's been some action to eliminate the accidents. But I would like to point out in the end that we, by supporting your proposal, want a more adequate position of the local authorities, so that this water regime, which is currently imposed, is corrected, because not only does it not solve the problems at the moment, on the contrary, it leads to more losses, to more accidents in the network because of the so-called hydraulic shock that occurs at every stop and start of the network. By finishing, once again I would like to say that the problem is overparty and we will support your proposal with our correction. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Colleague, all that stuff you read to us as a lecture, I imagine if you were an opposition, what tone you'd say all this. [[Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Of course, not only the water sector, and energy, and all services are overparty, but there is a certain period of time when a particular political formation takes over and is responsible for it. For the condition of the water sector we must have certain mistakes from the previous governments, but for the current mistakes, you are carrying for the period of the 10 years. I'm surprised you're standing on this stand and saying, "There's no coordination, there's no control." Yesterday I was surprised when Minister Avramova said: "The other ministries are guilty. " - How and how do you conduct the talks in the Council of Ministers, I do not know?! Is there only one person who talks there? Don't the others ask questions? Don't you have any contact with the Ministry of Environment? Don't you have any contact with the Ministry of Internal Affairs about what you said? Colleagues, the situation with the water sector is good that the BSP colleague enlightened us because otherwise we were unenlightened is very difficult. She won't solve herself with a magic wand. The last ten years have been missed, for which you are responsible, and you are now explaining to me that you are going to submit a bill. But people don't need a bill. They're asking for water in Pernik. Even a few days the coworkers come without being shaved by looking at them. [[Laughter and excitement.]] It would have been funny if I hadn't heard from you that the Law would limit the use of water resources. But they're not in Pernik. What are you going to limit?! Mrs. Ninova, aman of this nation who will live with energy and water aid if we have all brought things to the point that in every emergency we define and provide assistance to society. If there are European countries that provide aid, and their situation is not good. Colleagues, yesterday I asked the question, and today I'm going to ask it about the climate changes you were talking about earlier. Did you know that in America, not very long ago, Thomas Henderson had bought five planes and planted the clouds to rain over the dam that was his to produce electricity and pay back his expenses? Did you know that at the moment in South Africa, Stuart Pickett, did you know that professors in Brazil are currently affecting the clouds that are raining right where it is needed? Because of the lack of communication, because the government didn't do that job to keep the water supply in Pernik's dam, it happened, we hear they're going to go drilling and looking for water. I have a few more things I can explain to you, but for lack of time, I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u79	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atalay, I do not agree with everything you have said, because we are still in Bulgaria and it is right for the legal regulations to be respected here in Bulgaria to have water. And we know that there are also problems with the Cadastral still, there are problems with those who are private owners around the dams. This problem hasn't been solved yet, you haven't said anything about it. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Second line? [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] Mr. Genov, I don't know, you have one minute. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u81	Thank you for giving me the time. Of course, a colleague, apart from all these problems, currently due to a lack of communication about what is happening in the two ministries, where we had decided that the dams would be transferred to the state so that these 500 million could be invested. Yesterday I asked the question, I think Minister Avramova will be ready today. In making the cadastral maps for which the money has been paid and already taken, old data has been used. These cadastral maps currently have private properties. Municipalities have no way and how to transfer those dams that are municipal to the state in order to continue their care, repair and so on. Or, colleagues, the situation with the water sector is so severe, the situation is so problematic. For an hour with a question, I thank BSP colleagues for asking it, this problem will not be solved if those decisions are not made in the Council of Ministers to centralize the funding, but to allow each water sector, each trading company to reinvest in the respective network the money it takes from the people, so that these 93 thousand kilometers of water pipes can be replaced because of the old etheric pipes losses in Pernik if they are 73%, in other places they are already over 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u83	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! I don't think I'm gonna say a lot of things for one minute. Madam Minister, through you we speak to the Minister of Environment and Water, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Minister of Health, after all the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister: Bulgaria does not comply with art. 151 of its own Water Act and does not implement the Water Framework Directive, for swimming water management. The subject is extremely serious! You should know that! We don't speak in the same terms, colleagues. Nothing to do with the reform of the water sector with the reform of the water sector. These are two completely different things. I can see that the question is not widely understood, and you don't owe it to her. The European Commission asked us to reform the water sector once, we gave it a reform of the water sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Bonev. I'll allow it without the announcements. Just start the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kostadinov, it is very important to explain the difference between water reform and water resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u86	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Bonev gave you three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the most important thing is that there is the will to change the situation with something. What is the difference, dear Mr. Bonev and honourable colleagues? Madam Minister, of 1 billion. Cube. The water flow in the water sector operates by 13% or 15% "150 million" in the country. Cube. m. Do you think that the Director of the Water and Water Department Pernik is responsible for the waterlessness in Lovech, Shumen, Pleven, Kotel and Vucha? Absolutely not! The hierarchy is as follows. The Framework Directive says: pool water management; river basin management plans; flood rivers management plans and only after that, honourable colleagues, water sector strategy, water sector strategy, hydroenergy sector strategy............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ What legislation will we do with you after in 2013 the Council of Ministers has not adopted the National Strategy for Water Sector Management and Development in relation to Art. 151 for water management? This is what we must do, colleagues, first, and then for each industry, and not the water sector, hydromelioration and irrigation. For the harmful effects of water, we must make legislation. This, Mr. Bonev, is the huge difference between us and the European Commission's request to provide reform to the entire water sector with reform in one sector. That's not how it's gonna go down. We will make 100 million investments, Mr. Bonev, in Pernik, but there will be no water flowing in them because we do not manage the water on a pool principle. This is a question for the Council of Ministers, this is a question of huge agreement in the National Assembly, this must be an initiative, I would say, and the Prime Minister personally, because the situation has come to such a phase in which we are simply wasting our time and talking with incorrect concepts. I say this to you, Madam Minister, to address through you and the other ministers, because in 2013 what the Council of Ministers did not accept, what I say with great pain, I have not been able to persuade as Deputy Minister of Environment and Water and Oresharski's cabinet to accept. We have also gone in the wrong direction, now we are all paying for the misunderstanding of this question. Another point is that a group of political experts passed as a comet through the skyline of the water sector and the water industry. Some went to private business, others went to manage traffic safety, the third ones pulled the pipes in Dobrudzha, now politicalists. Now we pay the price. Concessions and loans, loans and receivables. This was offered only to us. Our responsibility is much greater. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u88	Thank you. We've gone through all the procedures. Any other speeches? Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I take occasion from what the previous speaker said that the issues we are discussing are extremely important, indeed serious issues that require great agreement, as Mr. Kostadinov said. I take the floor with the belief that water resources are resources of strategic national importance. These are resources important to the people important to the industry, to energy, to agriculture, to the protection of ecosystems in the country. Therefore, the issues we are debating today are related to national security. Undoubtedly priority number one and within the meaning of Bulgarian legislation and, I am convinced, by our common understanding, is the provision of drinking water of good quality and sufficient quantity, i.e. the provision of quality and efficient water services, so the development and management of the water sector to the maximum extent require responsibility, professionalism, efficiency, good coordination and clear strategic direction. I take the floor to propose the editorial changes that have been announced by my colleague Shishkov because, as he mentioned, we support the spirit of the proposal made by BSP colleagues. The proposal is related to the commitment that the National Assembly entrusts to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, related to the development and adoption of the long-awaited Water Act. We propose that in the first part of your proposal, i.e. at the first point of your proposal, the text should be replaced: "In 31 April 2020 the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works will prepare and submit to the National Assembly a Draft Law for Water and Water. We believe that this text contains some ambiguities and inaccuracies. In addition, we think it is realistic to assign the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to prepare and announce for public discussion within a realistic five-month period by May 15, the Draft Law for Water and Water. Why? Because we know that the work has already begun, that there is a working group working on the already proposed concept of this law. It is really necessary to address this with maximum responsibility, bearing in mind that this is a whole new law and to develop adequate legislative texts. We propose that at the first point the text should be replaced by the following: With regard to the second point in the proposal of colleagues, which concerns their requested update of the Water Sector Strategy, covering the period 2014 -- 2023, we believe that what is necessary is the MPs, as well as the public, to be informed of the progress in implementing the Action Plan, which is an integral part of the Water Sector Strategy. Why? Because this strategy, you know, was prepared with the support of experts from the World Bank, welcomed by the European Commission and agreed with all stakeholders, a truly qualitative document that clearly lays down the principles and steps for progress in the development of the water sector. What we demand is for the National Assembly to be informed twice a year in June and December by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for the progress in implementing the Strategy Action Plan and, if necessary, to propose to the Council of Ministers the adoption of an update of this strategy. In this sense, we propose at second point that the text should be amended as follows: the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to inform twice a year the National Assembly on the progress of the implementation of the Action Plan to implement the measures of the Strategy for the Development and Management of Water and Sewerage for the period 2014 and, if necessary, propose an update of the Strategy to the Council of Ministers. I hope that you will support these editorial changes of ours and, as I said, together with joint efforts to work towards improving the regulations and supporting the development of the water sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. - What's the line? Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vasileva, I would like you to explain to our colleagues from BSP that it is very clear to us the difference between hydromeliorations and the water supply sector that to a large extent the problems are generated by the losses that have been planted over the years in the water networks. Solving the loss problems, renewing the entire network for the most part of the country, we will solve largely the problems of the water sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Mrs. Vasileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. I am convinced that colleagues have full understanding, especially colleagues in the Committee on the Environment and Waters, with whom we work actively, as well as colleagues directly involved in conducting policies relating to integrated management of water resources, are extremely aware of the hierarchy of strategic documents, the principles on which water management is based. Water reform and water reform were laid down in the Water Act of 2009. By the way, and the Strategy for the Development of the Water Sector was developed with the participation of colleagues on the left. We are aware of this, we are also aware of the fact that in chronological order events begin before 2009, before the start of the development of the Water Act; in 2012. the Water Sector Management and Development Strategy; 2014 The strategy for development and management of the water sector, of course, and the plans for river basin management and documents related to the integrated management principle, flood risk management plans and strategic documents in other sectors related to hydromeliation and protection against the harmful effects of water. It is important to talk about these issues, and it is important that we MPs also contribute to ensuring that both people and the Bulgarian economy have sufficient quantity and good quality of water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. The way you're holding Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, in the manner of conduct. When colleagues go out to replicate, the Rules say they should disagree with what the speaker said, not give guidance on how and how to train BSP, that they do not know the reforms and hydromillions in the water sector, otherwise you fall into such a cult series of a movie, as they say: [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank you for this debate which took place today in the House of the National Assembly. I would like to thank the MPs from BSP and Mr. Kostadinov, who very accurately distinguished the sectors in which we all need to work together. What I can consider and report in this debate and in this hearing is the reform that we, as the Ministry, have undertaken in connection with the implementation of the Strategy in the Water Sector, but the topics are interconnected and the reform in a sector must be considered as part of a common reform, because if the water sector draws water from the water sources, it must be the big topic of water resources and their governance on the agenda of both the government and the National Assembly. What all of you have said has discussed almost the entire range of strategic documents from Strategy, Water, Water and Water Act, a few words only about the Strategy. We believe that it is a well-developed document in which many political forces have participated over the years and that at this stage it does not need to be modified and updated. This strategy will apply until 2023 and we are guided by it for the reform of the water sector. This strategy is also highly appreciated by the European Commission. The main objectives in it are for the water sector to achieve compliance with national and European environmental requirements, i.e. to complete the missing infrastructure with regard to waste water extraction and treatment. The second objective is that the water sector is environmentally friendly, financially and technically sustainable, i.e. the existing water infrastructure should be replaced and maintained in order to have sustainability and continuity of the water services. Thirdly, the prices of water services should be socially bearable. Fourth, the quality of services and the efficiency of water operators to comply with good European practices, that is, we must increase efficiency in the industry and through consolidation and economies of scale in providing water services to prevent excessive costs of infrastructure and to introduce the regional principle of planning and building networks and facilities. The regulatory documents that are laid down in this strategy as regulations, such as regulations and guidelines, have been drawn up. What has not been done at the moment is to ensure the full amount of the financial resources referred to in the Strategy. It was no coincidence that you, too, in the debate, stressed it as a need to secure funds for the sector. The strategy has calculated and set up 11 billion for the period of action of this strategy and some of them are provided by European programmes. 2007 - 2013, you know that there have been investments in the water sector - almost two billion, with many of them focused on purification and canal. In this programming period 1.8 billion. lv. will be invested in a water infrastructure with a high focus on plumbing. The Water Act will be developed, there is a concept of its development. The main guidelines provided for the future regulatory act are the preservation of the public character of the water infrastructure, the state and municipal ownership, the implementation of the regional representation of services, and one administrative area to have an association on the water, one water operator, centralized planning and financing, regulation in the industry and the preservation of social tolerance. What was discussed in this debate about social tolerance. At present, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is the independent body that determines the cost of water in different water associations. This price does not exceed the social threshold. Here is the question: if we regulate the price and it is below the threshold of social tolerance for the different areas, should we release the price to support the socially poor, or should we keep a regulated price that is acceptable to everyone? This is a debate that is yet to come, so in the new law we foresee maintaining social tolerance and the debate on water aid is coming and we can discuss it together. Specifically for Pernik. I'd like to share a few things with you. The fact is that the water level in the dam is low. The fact is that Pernik needs a water regime to preserve this resource for a longer time and to withstand more flow into the dam, due to rains, snows and spring snow melting. The fact is that there are problems elsewhere in the country, not just in Pernik. The fact is that there are other dams that have levels below 50% of their volume. Here the big question is: in time how will the plans be planned, as Mr. Kostadinov said, the water resources that the water operators use? There are, and at the moment, dams are being built, dams have already been put into operation. You know, with a loan from the World Bank, we also renovate the dam, including the dam. I would like to thank all the experts, all the engineers and hydrologists who responded, expressed their willingness to cooperate and present their ideas. We expect analysis and solutions from the competent authorities of the Swimming Directorate. I would like to thank my colleagues from Pernik for the help provided by the Water and Water Agency in connection with the removal of multiple accidents. The regime, which was introduced in the attempt to save water, also brought a number of problems with multiple accidents, reaching even 16 new accidents a day. This is a great challenge to the water company and I, honourable MPs, from the stands of the National Assembly want and appeal.................... let us not Satanize the water company in Pernik. There work people who also live in Pernik, their families are also on a water regime. These people need some peace and help to be able to cope with the current situation. It is extremely dangerous at this time the problem in Pernik and other settlements to be politicized and used for populism. I appeal to all of us to join forces to resolve the problem. All those who are concerned about the issue of the water operator, the local authorities, the district governor and all state institutions, join forces and join in solving the problem. A working meeting was held today at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works with the participation of the district governor, the mayor of Pernik, the newly appointed prosecutor who has broad powers and will manage the company. At this meeting, many proposals were discussed in working order. Again, I believe that with the appointed prosecutor who has a good dialogue with the mayor of Pernik, things will go in a good direction. To solve these problems, not only in Pernik, but for the whole water sector, the main problem is insufficient funding, as well as the development of the industry itself. These problems must be solved wisely and with great professionalism, because mistakes can cost dearly. I rely on the good will of all political forces to join efforts and work towards proper management of all sectors related to water in Bulgaria, because here water is national wealth. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u98	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u99	Madam President, my procedure with you is a little off the record. I would like to say this: Madam Minister, no one has Satanized the activities of the employees of the water service.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u100	To me, to me, Mr. Bonev! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u101	Yeah, yeah. The minister said. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Madam Minister, Madam President, it is nice to say from this tribune that the regime has been known since April. There's nothing populist about our speeches, knowing that Pernik's water regime is coming. So, I'm paying attention to you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u102	Thank you. What can I do, Mr. Bonev?! [[Loud noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev.]] No, no, thank you, you can tell me later. Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Colleagues, I am voting, first, the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Vasileva. I'll read it to you one more time. This is a proposal for an editorial amendment to Decision No 1, which belongs to the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It reads as follows: Within 15 May 2020, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall prepare and declare for public consultation a Draft Water and Water Law to ensure the long-term solution to the problems in the sector, including social tolerance of the prices of water services and the introduction of water aid, quality of services and the provision of additional financial instruments to increase investment in the sector and increase control of their implementation. We will vote a point on the editorial amendments and then in full if they are adopted, of course. [[Heckling]] We are voting on the first item, on the first editorial point, and on the second point, we will vote on it separately, and then on the whole if editorial amendments are adopted. Please, voting mode. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. According to the second paragraph of the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Vasileva: The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to inform twice a year the National Assembly on the progress in implementing the Action Plan for the implementation of the measures to the Strategy for Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage for the period 2014 - 2023 and, if necessary, to propose an update of the Strategy to the Council of Ministers. Please vote on this editorial amendment in second paragraph. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the draft decision in full with the corresponding editorial amendments adopted. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the second draft decision, which is the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: Project! DECISION The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Optimization of the state composition of the water companies and information to the National Assembly within six months. 2. Annual report of the reinvestments in the water sector in all directions of their activity. The importer is Tanner Ali and a group of MPs. Vote 117 MPs: 4 against 13, 100 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. That concludes the debate procedure. We're moving on to parliamentary control. The first will be the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for a question from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov on the failed implementation of part of a project under the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" in Lovech. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u103	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My question is this: on June 12, I had another current issue on the same occasion. It is under the realization of a contract building of a sports hall and rehabilitation of a yard space of a elementary school "Professor Dimov" in Lovech. The value of the project is 1 million. 142,000. BGN 228. without VAT. The contract is part of a larger project, which is under Priority Axis The second contract of this project was concluded on 18 May 2018 between Lovech Municipality and the unification of Danny Thorcret by Smolyan. There is a period of execution of 10 months. Unknown for what reasons after my current question The Managing Authority of the Programme decided to extend the deadline until the end of this year. After some movement before the local elections in the yard space of the school, the construction was almost deserted again. And I understand that since November 22nd, his performance has been suspended because of winter conditions and inability to work. For the time being, a rebar has been placed on the foundations and columns of the future sports hall. But this rebar has already corroded. In response to my previous question, you have stated that in the event of a slowdown in the performance of the particular activity, the latter is regarded as a modification of the contract concluded with the contractor and a verification of the legality of the change found.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u104	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u105	My questions are: what payments have been made so far under the contract in question? The funds under the project are available, the contractor is chosen by the beneficiary Municipality Lovech twice. What requires the constant extension of the deadline? What financial penalties have been imposed on the contractor so far, and what financial corrections to the beneficiary? Will this project be completed and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u106	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u107	Let him do it under the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u108	Still, he should be able to ask his own questions. Come in for an answer, Mrs Avramova. You will see now that I will give much more time to Mrs Avramova, as her answers are usually much longer but comprehensive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, the Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" has recovered the costs of the contract that you refer to in your question, from 18 May 2018 with the contractor of the construction works of the main school "Professor Dimov" and Danny Thorkret DZPP in the amount of 431 thousand. £741. 51 sq. This is an amount that constitutes an advance payment to the contractor. Until now under the project "Restructuring, renovation and equipment of buildings and rehabilitation of yard spaces of full-time kindergartens and cribs in Lovech, the construction of a school sports hall, rehabilitation of yard spaces in municipal schools in Lovech. Three financial corrections have been established and the financial penalties imposed are 5% more proportionate than the value of the contract with a contractor. Currently, for the main school "Professor Dimitar Dimov" there is a fun in the implementation of construction works under the contract. The contract was concluded with the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and the beneficiary Municipality of Lovech on 23 November 2016, and with an annex from 17 June 2019 the project was extended until 27 December 2019. The Municipality of Lovech has requested a suspension of the period for the implementation of the grant agreement with effect from 21 November 2019 due to adverse weather conditions for the implementation of the construction works, by letter dated 11 December 2019. The Managing Authority approved the suspension requested. Currently, the grant contract between the Managing Authority and the Municipality is a temporary suspension. The total amount of the project is 5 million. 342 thousand. BGN 731 and eight sites of the educational infrastructure are scheduled to be renovated. As of December 31, 2018, the kindergartens of the town of Lyulace, the district of Goznitsa, the village of Zora, the nursery of the village of Chareno, the profiled nature-mathematical high school, the primary school of Vasil Levski, the secondary school of St. Kliment Ohridski, were completed and put into service. At the moment, the beneficiary has not submitted a request for final payment under the Project, and the Managing Authority will assess the need for subsequent corrective action to be taken on the part of the beneficiary after its receipt and verification. In this regard, the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme cannot decide whether this specified site will be completed within the time limit. It should be borne in mind that the beneficiary has a contractual relationship with the Managing Authority, including with regard to the completion and reporting of the sites within the time limit laid down in the contract, and in the event of their failure, the funds for the construction of the site may remain at the expense of the beneficiary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to a few very interesting moments in fulfilling this contract. Last year my question was on 12 June 2019. One day after I asked the question the main company in the Association under the Law on Obligations and Contracts changed its owner. Separately, I want you to know, Madam Minister, that the main firm that implements this project, despite its great distance from Lovech, Smolyan Lovech is still quite large space, has a major economic activity retail trade in shoes and leather products. It does not have in its main activity the construction. And one more thing. My review, and it should be the beneficiary who signed the contract to establish that the first firm that signed the contract, together with the second company, which are companies at the same address in Smolyan, have the same phones, the two companies have the same prosecutor, they have obligations to the budget, to the NRA.......................................................................... BGN 209. And the prosecutor himself also has obligations to the NRA at 66 thousand. BGN 671. So no matter how much the beneficiary of Lovech Municipality pays off to these companies, the project will hardly be completed soon, as at least the obligations to the state must be repaid first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u112	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs Avramova? Okay, I get it, no. We move on to the next question, again by Mr. Milko Nedyalkov, concerning unlawful actions in the construction of the highway "Hemus" in the sections after km 87+800. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is clear from official correspondence from the media that there have been started construction works on the highway of Hemus. One of these sections is after km 87+800, in the area of the road hub. This area has become sadly famous for the damage caused in violation of the law by construction companies on the trough of the Vit River.....................................................................................................................of the future highwaying the future highway......................................................................................................................... Dear Minister, my questions are: for which sections of the project of the highway of Hemus....from km 87+800 to km 166+14409 Letnitsa has construction permits? In which sections of the track without a construction permit are construction activities carried out and who is their perpetrator? Is there any action taken by the National Construction Control Directorate on the legality of the construction activities in these sections of the Motorway Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u114	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Come in for an answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Nedyalkov, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of last year, a contract was signed with the state company The route that the contractor under contract has to build starts from the road hub of Boazas and ends until the crossing of the road I-5 Ruse Veliko Tarnovo. The division is a natural continuation of the newly built route from Yablanitsa to Boaza. All this is a sequence and stage of realization of the priority object. The distance from km 87+800 "this is Boaza" to 166+144 Letnitsa, on the highway "Hemus" has a length of about 78 km and covers the sections from one to four. Division 1 has a length of 15,26 km and will be until the intersection with road III-307 Lukovit Building permit of 17 April 2019 and signed Protocol No 2a for the opening of a construction site is available for one subdivision from section 1 km 94+960 to km 96+600. Up to now, works have been completed on: reconstruction of a low voltage network at km 95+916; reconstruction of a water pipeline for the village of Toros; reconstruction of the electricity pipeline The necessary tests have been carried out in the performance of the construction works by an accredited laboratory. On 17 April 2019 a construction permit was issued and a sub-division from section 3 at km 126+780 to km 127+075 with a length of 295 m. So far no construction activities have been carried out in it. On the route of the future highway are not assigned construction and installation activities in the area without a building permit. In connection with the reported signals and activities near the Vit River in the land of the village of Brestnitsa and the village of Brestnitsa, on 15 November 2019, the Road Infrastructure Agency has made a written request to the Swimming Directorate of the Danube Region and to the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Leads Pleven for verification of the case. On 21 and 22 November the National Construction Control Directorate carried out a check on documents in Teteven Municipality and in Lovech District Administration, and on site along the route of the future highway, which passes in close proximity to the Vit river trough in the said section. In the verification carried out, it was found that, in an earlier period of time, construction equipment had entered the trough of the Vit River, both above the existing bridge and after the bridge at the Boaza. It had carried out the cleaning of the river by withdrawing deposits, ballasting, removing shrubs and trees. Seen from a letter of 18 November 2019 of the Director of the Basin Directorate of the Danube Region and from a letter of 20 November 2019 of the RIEW Pleven, by his actions, the contractor Hydrostroy has violated both the Water and Environmental Law Act and the contract concluded with the district governor of Lovech district. The contract for cleaning the riverbed of the Vit river in the area of Hemus. 83 to km 101, including the road hub .Boaza........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Visible from art. 8, para. 1 of the contract, prior to the start of work the contractor was obliged to address the RIEW Pleven, Swimming Directorate Pleven in order to obtain an opinion and permission to use a water site. With ready permission to use a water site to contact a licensed forestry operator or the municipality of Lukovit, or Teteven for marking (marking). The finding and enforcement of the penalties provided for by law for the above infringements of the Water Act and the environmental legislation is within the powers and competence of the bodies of the Basin Directorate of Pleven and the Regional Inspectorate of Environment and Waters Pleven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The problem here is not at all what was described in the answer. There are construction activities on the highway right next to the riverbed of Vit. I will leave you, Madam Minister, photos from an advertising video, construction of the highway They were made on November 10th this year, and one earlier on October 27th this year, where it clearly shows that there is a construction of the highway without a construction permit for this section. There's no construction permit in this particular place and there's really no legal construction. Therefore, please, and I consider it at least necessary to refer to the competent authorities about these activities. Perhaps the overreaction here, as the Prime Minister of Bulgaria says, is very vividly expressed. I think, Madam Minister, that a highway, which is financially provided with the money of the Bulgarian citizens, has the support of all the people in Northern Bulgaria, has the support of the government, and in its construction there should be no shments of drips. The introduction of materials from the Vitt river trough into bed on the highway is illegal. Right here in the pictures I'm going to show you, it's clearly visible. [[shows photos]] that the roads are only because of the shoveling in bed on the highway. Thank you for your attention. [[Provides the photos of Minister Avramova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u118	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Would you like the word for the back, Mrs Avramova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, the Highway of Hemus is a priority of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the entire government and also for the whole of Northern Bulgaria. The efforts are both to implement all procedures which are invisible and are prior to the construction of the terrain. The huge efforts of the Road Infrastructure Agency are in the process of expropriating properties, design. I understand your signal and will take the necessary measures. Be assured that our efforts will be in this highway "Hemus" to be an exemplary object, as well as the means for it, you know that there are already 483 million more. So we are given the opportunity to build and we have to do it qualitatively and within time. Thank you for the signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u120	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We move on to the next question by the MP Krum Zarkov regarding the construction of a highway road Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo." Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you, first of all, for answering relatively quickly the question I asked you last week. In fact, you know him very well, we all know him. Many times over the years, MPs from the Ruse Election Region, regardless of their party affiliation, have raised the issue of building a motorway or a speedy road Ruse. The statement that Ruse is one of the deadliest in the country is made by a number of ministers and MPs of all colors. Unfortunately, these debates and findings so far do not produce results, and the Russians, as well as all those enjoying these roads, risk their health and life daily. For the last time, we discussed the issue in plenary in 2017. Then your predecessor, Mr. Nikolay Nankov, assured us that in his investment programme the third GERB government put the construction of a new highway between Veliko Tarnovo and Ruse in the first place. We have been informed about the preparation of an idea project, with the difficulties in financing, with the various options for overcoming them and it has been strongly stated that it is quite realistic with the availability of funding to start construction at the end of 2018. In this regard, at the end of 2019, Mrs. Minister, I ask you: at what stage is the realization of the government priority for the construction of the Ruse Motorway, Veliko Tarnovo, and in particular: when can real improvements be expected to the most critical from the point of view of the road safety section, namely the Ruse Road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Avramova, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, I confirm what you have just said that the realization of the Ruse Motorway Project is one of the priorities of the construction of modern infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria. The commitment that the government has undertaken is being implemented at the moment with the preparation and implementation of the two strategic infrastructure projects: the building of We know that the project is extremely important for the economic development of Northern Bulgaria and for road safety and the construction of the highway will lead to a significant reduction in the danger of road accidents, which you have quoted in the most risky section of the town of Byala with the construction of the new road route. The preparation of the Project is in an advanced phase, although its implementation was hindered by the appeal of the Evaluation Report. By decision of November 2018, the Supreme Administrative Court rejected the complaint approving the implementation of an investment intention by combination, with the execution of a gauge A 27. The site is divided into three sections to speed up its realization: Ruse At the moment, the design of the Agency's procurement project, for which the environmental procedure has been completed with an EIA decision issued and entered into force as of 15 July 2019. The project has been submitted to the Road Infrastructure Agency and is to be reviewed by an Expert Technical and Economic Council at the beginning of next year. For the districts of Ruse, a pilot copy of a detailed development plan was submitted to Ruse Municipality, from km 0+400 to km 76+200 on the territory of Ruse District, to the Road Infrastructure Agency. The project was revised several times on current excerpts of Cadastral map and Cadastral registers, acting for the lands affected by the site, after which the project was launched by the municipalities according to art. 128 of the Law on Structure of the Area. The project will be co-ordinated with the interested companies and proceeding under the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land and the Forests Act of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Upon completion of all procedures, the PUP-PP project will be submitted for approval by the National Expert Council on a territory structure and regional policy to the Minister of Regional Development. Since the site is not national, the estrangement will be given by the district governor of Ruse and served individually to each owner. A contract was signed with the National Archaeological Institute with a museum at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to search for archaeological sites along the route of the future highway. The field survey shall start from 11 November 2019 within 35 calendar days and within one month shall be prepared and submitted to the API a report on the activities carried out by the National Archaeological Institute. Also in preparation is a procedure for selecting a contractor to prepare a road safety audit for a phase-ideal project. A conformity assessment report procedure will be launched after approval of the preliminary design and preparation of the PSU. A public contract for the award and development of the Project of PSU and a plot of plots for the territory of Veliko Tarnovo district is currently being prepared, with an idea project for a road node when crossing with the highway. In order to secure the construction of Ruse Motorway, I inform you that we are working to secure funds because the total indicative value of the entire project is 1.18 billion. lv. without VAT. One possibility is the construction of the highway to be financed under the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme of the Transport Sector (OPC) and 2027 at the same time other alternative options are sought, including state funding. In 2020, we plan to announce public procurement for design and construction, and for construction supervision of the site. After the conclusion of the contract with the selected contractors will start the real construction of the highway Ruse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Would you like a line, Mr. Zarkov? Come in for a cue in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u125	Dear Minister, I cannot stop at all the moments in your reply within two minutes, but allow me to say that it is the same as that given by Minister Lilyana Pavlova in 2015, such as that given by Minister Nankov in 2017, and you are giving it today in 2019. I do not underestimate any of the difficulties in the procedures and in everything that is related to building one such road, but for nearly 10 years, the Russians are being explained the same thing, and for nearly 10 years we are repeating the appeals, the way we finance, we talked about Plan Juncker, now we are talking about some program, but none of these things have been mentioned during election campaigns, when we all go there and answer the question: will there be a road? We say yes, there will be. Please, Dear Minister, engage yourself in this cause, try now or in the coming days, as far as possible, to tell us clearly and intelligibly when exactly an improvement of this road section can be expected. When exactly is this highway going to happen? Every time an official visits Ruse, journalists ask him the same thing, we repeat the same mantra. People there tell me: if I were a member of parliament, I would go and lie in front of the minister's office until this time it happens. Is that what we're supposed to do?! I doubt anyone wants to come this far and I have no doubt about your desire to do this time and you will remain as minister in the hearts and souls of the people as the person who has fulfilled this promise because, dear Minister, the delay with every day on this road is measured in human lives.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Zarkov! For all Russians, for all people who are around the route of the future highway Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," I would like to say that there will be a road and a new highway Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo." As the people of Northwestern Bulgaria did not believe and for many years they waited to have a road from Vidin to Botevgrad with speed and highway gauges and the launch of construction activities was met hardly with distrust it begins or does not start as construction, the procedures slow down the process of starting the real construction, but as we have started the road from Vidin to Botevgrad and as we are working on the highway
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. We are going to the last question to you from the National Representative Alexander Matsurev on the readiness of the state for the snow-cleaning of the Republican road network in Blagoevgrad region. Here you are, Mr. Matsurev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question, Minister, is about the readiness of the state for the snow cleaning of the Republican road network in Blagoevgrad region. As the winter season begins, the topic of snow-cleaning the roads of the Republican road network is back up to date. As a Member of the National Assembly elected by Blagoevgrad, I believe that it is my duty to ask this parliamentary question about the country's readiness for winter maintenance of these road sections which are located in the territory of our area. I am also doing this because of the fact that such questions have been addressed to me in my meetings with citizens and with business representatives. I would like to assure you that this parliamentary issue has been drawn up with responsibility and that Blagoevgrad is a tourist destination for skiing and adequate snow-cleaning of roads is important for tourists who come from all over the world to receive a quality service. I would like to ask you the following questions: what is the state's readiness for winter maintenance of roads from the Republican road network, which are on the territory of Blagoevgrad district? What means are there for this? What actions have been taken for the snow-cleaning of the Republican road II-19, passing through the pass, the Predestination and the Republican road II-84, in the section between Bansko and Yundola, which have an extremely important importance as transport links in the region and lead to one of the largest Bulgarian and world resorts, namely the town of Bansko? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u130	Thank you, dear Matsurev. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Matsurev, the question you are asking is extremely relevant given the coming winter season. I agree with you that the development of tourist destinations in the country is a concern of many state institutions, as creating conditions for tourism, sport and access to cultural historical landmarks is a responsibility dependent on a number of factors and management decisions. I also support your thesis that the good preparation and organization for winter maintenance of Republican roads is essential not only for ensuring safe and emergency movement, but that in this way the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works contributes to supporting the tourism industry, for the realization of services related to winter sports and recreation for Bulgarian and foreign tourists. In support of the above, I inform you that representatives of the Road Infrastructure Agency take part every year in preparatory meetings organised by the Ministry of Tourism, which discuss current topics for the season, including the readiness of road infrastructure leading to ski resorts. At the beginning of November this year, experts from Regional Road Management took part in such a traditional meeting held in Bansko, where the participating institutions in the tourism industry discussed measures for the smooth running of the winter season. Regional Road Management supplied by Blagoevgrad, as a territorial representative of the Road Infrastructure Agency, organizes and controls the winter maintenance of 716.5 km of Republican roads. On the territory of the district are: 46.6 km from the highway Winter maintenance is carried out by a contractor company under a contract for maintenance........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For the 2019 season, 100 machines that are in good condition are provided on the territory of Blagoevgrad region. All are equipped with GPS systems and fitted with signalling devices for a special traffic mode. After the introduction of winter maintenance District Road Management.. Blagoevgrad carried out a verification of the road support company by establishing the presence of the following amount of inert materials: 1780 tonnes of salt, 10 tonnes of sand, chemical materials for treatment of the road pavement of the Republican roads, 10 tonnes of solid phase. Chemical materials are not in full volume, but the road-support company continues with regular deliveries. Regional Road Management.. Blagoevgrad continues to carry out periodic checks. Training has been carried out for all employees of the Regional Road Management for the order of collection and processing of information about the state of the roads during winter maintenance, as well as the time for which it is to be provided to the staff on duty. 24-hour shifts of information units by districts and posts are in place. Regarding your question, what actions have been taken for snow cleaning, I present to you the following information: Road II-19, which starts from Simitli and reaches the border with Greece, is in good technical condition. The road has a first degree winter maintenance, i.e. there are increased requirements for passability and thickness of the snow cover. In the section between Razlog and Bansko are placed 200 m snow protection devices to protect the road lane from twists and to facilitate snow cleaning. The area is served by four support points. These points have 35 snow-cleaning machines, 505 tonnes of salt and 2470 tons of sand. The Pass is a road artery of extreme importance, as it makes the transport access to one of the most visited resorts in Bansko. The area is served by two support points, 14 snow-cleaning machines, 270 tonnes of salt and 470 tonnes of sand. In the case of heavy snow through the pass, the road traffic is limited to more than 12 tonnes so that the pavement can be treated and normal traffic can be ensured. Road II-84, which starts from Pazardjiska district and ends at Razlog, is also in good technical condition. The area is served by a support post "Banya" and a support post "Black Places". The puncts have 9 snow-cleaning machines, salt, 165 tons, and sand, and 730 tons. The Republican road network in Blagoevgrad is prepared for winter conditions. The checks of the Regional Road Management continue and timely action will be taken in the event of a delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Would you like a line? No. Thank you, Mrs Avramova, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the last two questions for today, which are to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov. The first is from the MP Slavcho Atanasov on the removal of a key infrastructure facility in Plovdiv, known as the concrete bridge. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! With this question, I would like to focus your attention on the case of the removal of a key infrastructure facility in Plovdiv, known among Plovdiv as the concrete bridge. There's a procedure in place that says a company has been selected to knock it down. This causes serious tension among the inhabitants of Plovdiv. The bridge is key in the connection between the region of South-South and the region of Central. If removed, the South-South region will be cut off and blocked from the rest of the city. This situation has not been taken into account and is not taken into account as a circumstance that will create huge difficulties for Plovdiv citizens. I'm briefing you on the timeline of the problem. A year ago, a proposal was submitted to the Municipal Council, with which the Municipality of Plovdiv agreed on the NRIC project, which includes the construction of a high-speed railway line for which the abolition of the concrete bridge is necessary. As compensation, NRIC offers and assumes at its own expense the construction of a breakout under Central Station. After a huge mobilization occurred in the city, the proposal was postponed for the next meeting of the Municipal Council. At the meetings held with the National Railway Infrastructure Company it became clear that the concrete bridge could not be saved and this is not their commitment. It is not their commitment and the ties of the future breakthrough under Central Station. It is not their commitment and the highway plumbing standing in the way of the future breakthrough. All this is a future financial commitment of Plovdiv municipality. A new meeting of the Municipal Council was held. The city officials have passed the decision. Note that in this decision the National Company Railway Infrastructure has not made any commitments to preserve the concrete bridge, except an oral assurance that the municipality of Plovdiv does not mind in the future to build a new concrete bridge at its own expense. In accordance with its program National Company "Railway Infrastructure" (Railway Infrastructure) launched a public contract for the breakthrough in which the removal of the concrete bridge is clearly recorded. Another problem will arise around the construction of the ties and extensions in front and after the breakthrough of the possible new bridge, because it will come into conflict with the concessionaire of the Central Station Plovdiv. Dear Minister, on the basis of the foregoing, my questions to you are as follows: Will the concrete bridge of Plovdiv be removed, and what will be the fate of the region of South after that? Secondly, what measures will you take to make it possible to preserve this key facility for the city? Thirdly, will you make an official commitment to Plovdiv to preserve the concrete bridge? Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, within the scope of the Project "Development of a railway hub". Plovdiv, funded with the funds from the mechanism of connection of Europe and the beneficiary state enterprise National Company "Railway Infrastructure" are envisaged activities in modernization of the railway road, facilities and contact network and realization of the site of the project "Communication break" under the railway area of the Central Station of Plovdiv, connecting the boulevard of Vasil Aprilov and Macedonia Blvd. For the implementation of the project is provided grant financial assistance under an agreement between the State Enterprise National Company "Railway Infrastructure" and it. Within the preparatory phase of the project funded by the funds under the Operational Programme "Transport" is prepared an Idea project which is agreed with the Municipality of Plovdiv, and a Project for a detailed development plan for communication and transport breakthrough under the railway area of the Central Station of Plovdiv, which was approved by a decision of the Municipal Council of Plovdiv. The project for communication and transport breakthrough is prepared by specialists in the field of road and tunnel design and is in line with the current General Development Plan of the city of Plovdiv, with the Integrated Urban Recovery and Development Plan of the city of Plovdiv 2014 as well as with the Municipal Development Plan of the Municipality of Plovdiv 2014-2020, in which a communication and transport breakthrough is set up as part of the projects envisaged for realization in that period. In view of the need for bilateral cooperation in the construction of the railway hub Plovdiv, and in particular the construction of an object under the railway area of the Central Station Plovdiv. An agreement was signed between the National Railway Infrastructure Company and the Municipality of Plovdiv for coordination of the activities for which the two countries have a commitment and which fall within the scope of the project. The Idea project provides for the disassembly of the existing facility - Bethonov Bridge, located at railway kilometers 155+642, due to insufficient gauge for the implementation of the reconstruction of the track development and the construction of the new contact network of Plovdiv station. In the existing situation, the contact network in the facility area is interrupted and all electric locomotives pass under the bridge at reduced speed and downtached pantographs, which violates the security and compliance of the train traffic schedule and cannot achieve the parameters of the Project. In the implementation of the activities under the same project was launched a public contract for the selection of a contractor with subject of the modernization of the railway road, contact network and systems for signalling and telecommunications in Plovdiv Station and the construction of communication and transport breakthrough under the railway area of Plovdiv Station, on which the contract is to be concluded. On the part of the State Enterprise, National Railway Infrastructure Company is committed during the implementation of the contract to seek a technical solution, to design and build a new facility on the axis of the old concrete bridge to meet the requirements for railway and contact network gauges by meeting the requirements of national legislation and requirements for interoperability of railway infrastructure that are essential for the implementation of the project. All project solutions will take into account the interests of the public of the city of Plovdiv. The main goal in the implementation of the project is to create the comfort of the population. On the part of the municipality of Plovdiv is committed to fulfilling the project for construction of an underpass connecting the streets of Tsarevets. The construction of the underpass was built in the waitout of the State Enterprise National Company "Railway Infrastructure" as early as 2015. The implementation of the commitments made is of particular importance for the successful implementation of the project funded by European funds, on the one hand, on the other hand, providing road and pedestrian traffic between the north and south of the city of Plovdiv through the railway area. It is important to note that for the purpose of the successful implementation of the sites communication breakthrough under the railway realization of the Central Station of Plovdiv, and a multifunctional building with a commercial part and general, serving the Bus Station with RPB 2000 sq. M, co-ordinating actions have been initiated between the State Enterprise National Company "Railway Infrastructure" and the Ministry of Transport and the Plovdiv station in the preparation phase of the preliminary projects of the two sites. The realization of the communication and transport breakthrough under the Central Railway Station will solve a long-standing problem of the city of Plovdiv by reducing the travel time between the northern and southern parts of the city, and as a related effect will be the reduction of the harmful emissions generated during the operation of the motor vehicles in the atmosphere. The overall realization of the project "Development of the railway hub Plovdiv" is extremely important for the economic and social development of the city of Plovdiv. The same will contribute to the modernisation of existing infrastructure according to standards and transport policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelyazkov. Here's a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I have listened very carefully to your answer and I am very much aware of everything you have said. Not just me, but a lot of my fellow citizens. I'll tell you what the problem is. The problem is that this is a 103,000-year-old neighborhood, I myself grew up in this neighborhood, and pushing the concrete bridge will cause, I would say, transport chaos, not to say the strong word, a transport crash in the city. There are several reasons. The approaches to this 103-thousandth district are three when we push the concrete bridge, as is the idea, and while there is a new modern concrete bridge, the approaches to this 100 thousandth quarter will be only two, and they are only in the other part of the neighborhood. I mean, it's not a neighborhood. It's a county town. At the moment, Mr. Minister, due to the peculiarities of the area, as the streets are narrow, we have two approaches: one is via Komatevsk knot, the other is through the overpass And right now, Mr. Minister, if you meet and see in person, in the morning hours when people go to work, and at rush hour when they come back from work, there are terrible traffic jams. Pushing the concrete bridge is the third approach to this neighborhood, but it is on the other side of the neighborhood, and after the concrete bridge lives between 30 and 40 thousand people. Can you imagine, Mr. Minister, how these people, after work and in the morning, when they have to go to work, will have to go through the other two approaches to get them out of the neighborhood. I can tell you without being emotional that these people will have to go by helicopter to go to work or come back from work. That's the big problem. There are several others that are very serious for Plovdiv municipality. For example, the Municipality of Plovdiv should take over the financing of the main plumbing, which passes through the breach. You know that's tens of millions. Secondly, the expansion of the approaches when we go through the underpass, which is built really with European money..................................... to the state for this, but from there on, Mr. Minister, the costs are borne by the Municipality of Plovdiv. And the streets, where the expansion should be made, I say about the specifics of the neighborhood, where Macedonian refugees from the old days live, are extremely narrow. It's also about Kukush Street and Macedonia Street. There are serious alienation procedures for entire properties ahead. How do you imagine that to happen? There's going to be a revolution. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With the breakthrough that is being made with European funds, we will practically end up in the streets that are taking this breakthrough. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u138	Mr. Atanasov, get your head in the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u139	Yes, thank you very much. I'm 30 seconds out. Famous Plovdiv construction engineers and architects claim that instead of pushing the concrete bridge, there is an opportunity to pass this highly qualified railway connection, to upgrade the bridge, i.e. lift it up. It's the only way out. Otherwise, pushing the concrete bridge, Mr. Minister, I guarantee you it will cause enormous social tension in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u140	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Would you like the word for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister? No. Thank you. We move on to the last question for today from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova on meeting the needs of railway transport of passengers from Central North Bulgaria and in particular in the districts of Lovech, Gabrovo and Veliko Tarnovo. Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! Every year from the second Sunday of December, the new schedule for train movements enters into force, which creates some uncertainty in citizens. Particularly sensitive on this topic are the users of rail transport in the remote railway stations, such as from the cities of Troyan, Gabrovo, Veliko Tarnovo and others in relation to their relations with other settlements. The reason for this is: passenger trains taken off schedule without alternative bus transport; fewer trains in limited periods of the day; prolonged stays in nodes; new changes in the schedule for 2020 and others. Particular tension among the population in the three above districts created the proposal for a change the time of departure of the fast train No 2615 in the direction of Central Railway Station Sofia My question to you, Mr. Minister, is this: are the railway needs of the passengers from Central Northern Bulgaria and, in particular, in the areas of Lovech, Gabrovo and Veliko Tarnovo, for 2020 and will you guarantee predictability, predictability and quality in the provision of this kind of service?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u142	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Mr. Zhelyazkov, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Naydenova, regarding the question you have received regarding the planned transport service for 2020 of the districts of Lovech, Veliko Tarnovo and Gabrovo by rail, I assure you that we will ensure a quality service corresponding to the public need for this type of transport through several major improvements in train schedules for these areas, as follows: The Levski division will be served by four daily passenger trains in each direction. Currently, the lunch so-called pair of passenger trains is moving to the town of Troyan only four times a week, and from the 15th of this month it will be daily, which will significantly improve the service of the area. In Gorna Oryahovitsa precinct, Tsareva Livada, Oakovo, the international fast train No 465 will depart from Gorna Oryahovitsa station at a more convenient time, 17.30 instead of the current 20.25 hours, as currently with the current schedule 20.25 hours generate an average of 15 passengers due to its late movement. The same will make two new day-to-day comfortable connections in Dubovo station with a fast train to Sliven and Burgas, and in Stara Zagora station with a fast train to Plovdiv, respectively Pazardzhik and September. In this way, the service of Veliko Tarnovo and Gabrovo districts will be improved, giving opportunities for more comfortable travels at longer distances. The earlier departure of the fast train No 2615 Sofia Varna allows for an earlier and convenient connection at Gorna Oryahovitsa Station for the directions Veliko Tarnovo, Dryanovo, Tryavna and Plachkovtsi instead of at 20.25 am from Gorna Oryahovitsa Station, at 19.45 am. In fact, it is planned to stop the movement of one train.. A suburban passenger train No 40221 Gabrovo. Plachkovtsi, departing from the starting station at 22.00. The train generates an extremely weak train with a total volume between zero and two passengers transported for the entire distance of 33 km, from which it is clear what its efficiency is and how much the population will be damaged. In this decision, the trains in Gabrovo section will be one less, as follows: at 5.50, at 8.50, at 11.55, at 14:50, at 5:50, at 17.50 and at 20.20, dropping the specified at 22.05. There will also be a larger stay between two trains in a node of Tsareva train lawn of Gorna Oryahovitsa, leaving at 19.45, to the Tsareva meadow train, will be waiting 45 minutes instead of the current only 12 minutes. It is important to note that this relationship will be used on a daily basis by three people and increasing the stay by 33 minutes will not harm a large number of travelers. In the light of the foregoing, I assure you that the travel service seeks to provide a quality transport service and, in particular, in the areas referred to above, it will be significantly improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelyazkov. Would you like the word for a line? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u145	Dear Minister, I see that you have done too much to optimize passenger transport in Central Northern Bulgaria and some of the concerns of the population will be reduced. I would like to draw your attention to just two things that indirectly affect you. You know that when the discussion of the new schedules starts, then are invited all representatives of the municipalities who are affected, including representatives of the regional administration. I am impressed that perhaps it would not have come to this issue if the last meetings that were held in Plovdiv, Gorna Oryahovitsa were actually attended by all municipalities interested in this and representatives of the regional administration. Unfortunately, in these meetings, such representatives did not participate in these additional timetables specifications, which I share with you personally, this concerns me. There seems to be some problem that is beyond your priority, but I think you might consider it. I'm not talking about comfort, I'm not talking about new cars, I'm not talking about air conditioning cars. I know it is difficult, and at the moment all this reform, which we will surely continue to talk about, is on your head, but I think that with more joint efforts, things will happen so that we can actually have a modern rail transport of our passengers who deserve this. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-13.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. For the doppelganger? No. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control, Minister Zhelyazkov, and that concludes it. The next regular meeting on Wednesday, December 18th, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
