ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u1	Hey, guys! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I'll introduce you to two messages: The National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period August 22, 21, 2019 and Protocol No 36 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, held on 24 September 2019 at which the Report was reviewed and discussed. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report and the Protocol were sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 24 September 2019 in the National Assembly was presented the resolution developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the topic: Challenges to Bulgarian citizens from the risks of the global environment. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material is provided to: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Budget and Finance, and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the eleventh point of our work programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. He was introduced by the MPs Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krasimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali. Here you are, Mr. Nenkov, to present the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-71, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krasimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali At its extraordinary meeting on 25 September 2019, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-71, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krasimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali on 18 September 2019. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. The aim of the proposed changes is to create a legal opportunity for the appointment of mayors who will not have elections for mayors of town halls in the upcoming elections for municipal councilors and mayors and will respond to questions and proposals that have been submitted to the Commission by a number of municipalities in the country and by the National Association of Municipalities. With the latest amendments to the Law on the Administrative and territorial structure of the Republic of Bulgaria it was accepted that for the creation of a town hall it is necessary that the settlement or settlements included in the town hall have a population of more than 350 people. Under the provisions of the Election Code, elections for mayors of town halls are produced only in the town halls, which at the date of promulgation of the President's decree to postpone general elections for municipal councillors and mayors meet the requirements of art. 16, p. 1 of the Law on the Administrative and Territorial Device of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the last elections, before the upcoming elections, the requirements for population in the town halls were over 100 people and in these settlements elections were produced for mayors of mayors. According to the new requirements in a large number of settlements, not only will elections for mayors of mayors be produced, but they will not be able to appoint mayors as well, as under the provisions of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration mayors may be appointed in settlements that are not the administrative center of mayorship. The current town halls in which elections for mayors of town halls will not be made cannot be closed, as the law requires this to be done by consulting the population, and this is a clumsy and practically realistic procedure. The proposed changes allow for the appointment of mayors in these settlements, which will continue to have the status of city hall, but they will not produce elections for mayors of town halls, to be able to appoint mayors in accordance with the structure and total number of administration established by the municipal council. The municipal council is the body that will determine which settlements may appoint mayors. In order to ensure continuity and by analogy with other provisions of the law, mayors of the mayors of the mayors of these settlements are provided for after their term of office to serve temporarily as mayors until their release from the newly elected mayor of the municipality. The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, expressing support for the Bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krasimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-71, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Krassimir Tzipov and Tanner Ali, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The opinion of the importers is welcome, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u4	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! This bill is entirely in response to the desire of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria to settle the matter related to the mayors before the upcoming elections. As you know, a very controversial amendment with an increase in the number of required residents in a local place to have a town hall and to hold appropriate elections passed about two years ago, even a little more in the previous term of the National Assembly. The legislator then decided this case without predicting what would happen to the town halls, which, like each administrative and territorial unit, are opened and closed in a certain order. We now have city halls in the settlements, but we will not have any representatives of the local authorities. Members of Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government by various political forces, I would like to stress that we have tabled this draft amendment to the Law in order to resolve the specific case. I believe that the debate is essentially about the existence of these mayorships and about the border as a population in which there should be or should not be mayors, yet to come. We still have to settle the matter in general, let's put it this way, but in any case we cannot leave more than 1,000 settlements without any representatives of the local authorities. In this regard, I hope that we will receive a consensus of support in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u5	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very late, but although late today we are looking at the Draft Law amending the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, provided that we knew that really municipalities and city halls were in this situation. In other words, the signal of the Association of Municipalities sounded about a month, a month and a half as a problem, which would have created an extremely large and serious procedure in front of the municipalities and the citizens to stand in the way of what is happening with the City Hall, whether to close with a referendum or with a longer procedure. I personally, and our parliamentary group, will support this bill at the moment, but with one great regret, honourable colleagues who are importers, from the ruling coalition, with the fact that we twice made a proposal in the Law on Local Self-Management, and before the Act on Budgets, and later in a bill which did not even reach the Commission and the Chamber, in the Law on Administrative and territorial Device. We wanted the National Assembly to realise that when people select mayors up to 100 An additional emotion of the people living in small towns when they are united around their natural leader, the mayor, can achieve more. We denied that, and now in the final, literally on the first day of the elections for local power and for local self-government, we will make this even though little change. I would like to address first of all my colleagues from the Political Party GERB: given the experience in the municipality of Smolyan that 15 mayors who were closed and the rights were granted to an elected mayor to be mayor and the mayors of the mayors who are very far away from the settlement. In fact, you have created a condition that there is no access to administrative services for a large group of people. Don't do this, and with this law, let all parties turn to the mayors who will be elected afterwards, albeit in the small settlement. In the Budget Act there are enough funds that are in local activities for mayors, to be consumed, and to be used to enable people to have administrative service. Many times we have said that there is no doctor in small towns, there is no wish that you have launched here, to have a police officer in every village, and when there is no mayor's deputy, there is no pharmacy, there is no public service and there is a temporary appearance at such a time of time a representative of the local authorities from another village that is insulting to the people. So we've left them to self-organization, and there's really no local authority that fully functions. It is at the start of the local elections for the next season that we will support this proposal, and it is useful at the moment. It's late, but it's still deciding something. My fellow Members, I would like to say to you that, within more than a year, we have been trying to tell you that exactly in these small settlements that we are all talking about, there are demographic problems, there are people with many problems, there is a need for someone to provide them with public services. You have run away from such a decision, so at least with the mayor's deputies let us make this compensation, with which, for God's sake, the newly elected mayors, whom the population will empower, have a better attitude, a better sense of them, so that they can actually be engaged and receive public services from the local authorities. This is what I wanted to share with you about the Law on Local Self-government, which is being imported today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. A line, dear Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Yankova, I am taking a line, not because I disagree with what was said, but because at first there was an address to the importers. Some of the importers, including myself and the political forces that we represent, and IMRO, have stood up for the same view as your In this respect, we support you, but now we have to solve the problem. Thank you for the responsible behavior of the BSP in this case that it will support the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Second line, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Yankova, I agree with your statement. The debate is much more serious than how appropriate it is to make elections in settlements with 100 or 350 people living. We've always had this debate over the last few years. It is true that there is a gap in the Law and the legislator is, of course, not perfect. That's exactly the motive we put in this bill. Yes, we think it is nice for these settlements to have their representatives of local authorities to assist these people in these problems that you have already mentioned. From our perspective, we believe that it is not appropriate to make choices in settlements with 100 people. We have accepted some limit of 350, which I think is more or less normal, and can be argued by it. Just because we shouldn't and shouldn't mix the appropriateness with the need that people have in these settlements, it's nice to have mayor's deputies. I believe that it is easier for both the state and the resource to have such mayors, to choose and be part of the team of the respective mayor, of course, after a decision of the municipal council. It's an easier procedure than it is to get to elections and then each to fight in the chest how many settlements have won in such upcoming local elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Hole, Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, Mr. Veselinov, in parliament there were groups of BSP, IMRO, the Patriots and the DPS that we wanted to bring down. That is, we are the leaders of that European, true local self-government, which is closer to the citizens. The fact is, I respect Mr. Nenkov, but you looked so lightly at the moment, just like that, 100 people living out there. Do you know how hard it is? We have about 5,500 settlements, and this year, even with this amendment, about 1400, 1500 settlements will not choose their mayors, but will have mayor's deputies. Previously around 1600 in small towns lost their representation. I'll ask you, Mr. Nenkov. In the village of Kremene, a family died one winter. The elderly parent, the other adult parent, and the son, who had a mental deviation, wondered what to do with the two corpses because there is no mayor's deputy, no policemen. There's no one to go around these people, it's far away, what are you going to tell these people? Over there, from Mogilitsa, perhaps in the month one time someone will come to say to you: "Good afternoon! " We abandon people, especially in a constituency such as my mountain range, who live hardly, we abandon them without the care of the local authorities. If the mayor of the city is a hobo, it's worse. I therefore believe that yes, we need a substantive debate on the issues of local self-government, and let us now elect the newly elected mayors together with the new composition of the Association. Our Commission is extremely practical and businesslike and to see those weak moments that are needed to make the changes, because there is really a need for local self-government to get closer to people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 954-01-71. Vote 156 MPs: for 156, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since the Law is consensual and no requests have been made, there will be a proposal to improve it between first and second readings on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I also propose that a second vote be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u15	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 147 MPs: 143, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u16	The Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration is amended by the Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration. § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46a, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the first sentence, the words "inhabited' shall be replaced by the words "inhabited'; the word "inhabited' shall be replaced by "inhabited'; the word "institutions' shall be replaced by "institutions'. 2. In the sentence two, the words "The Mayor's Deputy" shall be replaced by "The Mayor's Deputys" and the word "the Mayor's Deputys" shall be replaced by "the Mayor's Deputys" and the word "the Mayor's Deputys" shall be replaced by "the Mayor's Deputys." Final provisions § 2. (1) In the settlements of the administrative center of town halls, in which the elections for municipal councillors and mayors on 27 October 2019 were not produced elections for mayors of town halls, may be appointed mayors deputys according to the other requirements of art. 46a, para. 1. (2) After their term of office the mayors of the town halls under para. 1 shall serve temporarily as mayors until their release from the newly elected mayor of the municipality. § 3. The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 2, which shall enter into force on 28 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u17	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the following texts: firstly, the name of the Law; secondly, the content of § 1 by importer; the name of the division They voted 149 MPs: 149, against and abstention none. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs s first vote. You have the floor to present the report, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Before presenting the Report to your attention, please ask for a tolerance procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to the vote a procedure for Ms. Ahladova's admission to the Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u19	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposed admission for this House. 140 MPs voted: 130, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted. Go on, dear Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote, vh. No 953-03-66 of 25 September 2019 on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 902-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2019. At its meeting on 25 September 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 902-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2019. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Justice: Danail Kirilov, Minister, and Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister; from the Supreme Judicial Council: Boyan Magdalinchev. The bill was presented by Mr. Kirilov and Mrs. Ahladova. She pointed out that it sets up supporting attestation committees to the courts to support the work of the Commission on the attestations and contests at the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council. Mrs. Ahladova added that it provides for conditions and arrangements for the selection of the members of the auxiliary attestation committees, while respecting the principle of random selection for each particular attestation, it is proposed that the Assistant Testimonial Commission be composed of three regular and one alternate members. The project refines the powers of the acting magistrates in the composition of the committees on attestations and contests, limiting their participation to the attestations without providing an opportunity to intervene in the activities of the personnel body. The proposed legislative amendments propose reducing the prior attestations and the reduction of exceptional attestations, thus limiting the types of attestations to those for inalienable, periodic and exceptional, but at the same time seeking objective identification of the actual qualifications, abilities and achievements of the judge. A legal opportunity shall be created for the college concerned to adopt a direct complex assessment when the examiner objects to the comprehensive assessment prepared, giving the committee on attestations and contests the opportunity to express a written opinion on the objection. The proposed amendments shall clarify the procedures for examining applications against infringement of the right to examine and resolve the case within a reasonable period of time, specify the powers of the Inspector to the Supreme Judicial Council and introduce new grounds for rejecting the applications as unfounded. In addition, it is envisaged that the analysis of the reasons for the infringements identified by the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and the adoption of measures for their removal be carried out separately by the College concerned in accordance with their professional direction. The bill provides for the waiver of the requirement for candidates for junior magistrates to submit recommendations by lawyers, specify the content of the legal provision concerning the assessment of the written examination and specify the criteria for the ranking of candidates. It introduces the assessment requirement, not lower than a very good one, when the applicant takes part in a competition for promotion in office and for relocation to the judicial authorities. The legal framework for the verification of property declarations shall be improved by specifying the requirements for the declaration of funds upon early repayment of credit and the time at which the property held should be indicated. The amendments to the Law provide for the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council to request disclosure of tax and insurance information and clarify the arrangements for carrying out additional checks on property declarations and improve the requirements for their content. The proposals shall extend the circle of persons who may be elected Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, providing for such an opportunity for district judges and district prosecutors. The bill improves the provisions relating to disciplinary proceedings by stating clear criteria for determining disciplinary penalties, precises the provisions on the time limits for examining and determining the relevant authorities and specifies the limitation periods. The draft law shall lay down in detail the appeal procedure for the orders of the administrative leaders, which shall be addressed to judges, prosecutors and investigators for any violations of the movement of cases and the organisation of their work. It proposes a change in the rank of the Administrative Court of Sofia District, and its alignment with that of the appeals courts, as well as ensuring access of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria to the automated information systems of the Ministry of Interior. The representatives of the judiciary presented broad motives in support of the bill, with Mr. Magdalinchev detailed the opinion of the Commission on Legal Affairs at the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council. Mrs. Tochkova and Mr. Magdalenchev expressed reservations regarding the extension of the circle of persons who can be elected Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. The Minister of Justice stressed that the Bill has been discussed in detail and subjected to public debate by experts in a working group for more than a year and the European Commission has been informed of its development. The discussion was attended by the MPs Christian Mitev and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Zarkov noted that he would refrain from supporting the bill, pointing out that some of the proposals need further discussion. Mr. Mitev expressed his support for the Bill and added that regarding the proposal for changes in art. 42 concerning the extension of the circle of persons who may be elected Chief Inspector and Inspectors of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council should not be accepted. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, No 902-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. We're moving on to the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, we will support the bill presented at first reading. This bill has been cooked for more than a year at the Ministry of Justice. We expected the adoption of first reading to happen last year, but for objective and subjective reasons this did not happen. The bill is now in front of us. I'm going to focus on two basic moments in it. The first is the solution to the problem of testing. The practice has shown that from the changes in 2016 to this point, however good the intention laid down in 2016, which we all supported then, part of the judicial self-government, which is part of the updated strategy for extending the reform of the judiciary, it turned out that this system of attestations, as currently developed and applied in strict compliance with the Law on the Judiciary, is inadequate and actually leads to a process of continuous, continuous attestation. One testimonial ends, the next begins, then continues the third. This constant attestation is brought to an end with the proposed changes. Next, which is also very important, is speeding up the process of attestations by proposing the creation of Adhok committees for the specific case for the investigation of magistrates, which will support the work of the Commission on attestations and contests to the Supreme Judicial Council, as although from 17 members at the time, working continuously, the Commission of 353 procedures in 2018 has managed to conduct and complete 176 procedures for attestations. The other procedures have practically not been completed, have not finished, which makes it difficult and hinders the career development of magistrates. I believe that even if only this were the change proposed in the Law on the Judiciary, it should be supported. Next, I strongly support what the Ministry of Justice has proposed regarding the dismissal of judges, prosecutors and investigators. This decision in fact also answers the observations and questions raised by the Constitutional Court's Decision concerning this procedure and the annulment, if you recall, part of the provisions of art. 230 of the Law on the Judiciary, proposing that the procedure be as governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure, whether it be magistrates or every Bulgarian citizen. For me, that settles the matter cardinally and definitively. Of course, the other changes will only improve and improve the work of the relevant judicial authorities implementing these changes with regard to the so-called integrity check, the additions to disciplinary proceedings. This is mainly about the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. Only there is no way to support and make appropriate changes between first and second readings of the proposed change in the circle of persons who can be elected chief inspector and inspector, to be supplemented and included by the district courts and prosecutors of the district attorney's office. A sufficiently well-founded argument has been presented by the Chief Judicial Inspector and remarks from the Supreme Judicial Council as to why this legislative decision is not appropriate. In the rest, however, the bill should be supported at first reading and I urge you to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u24	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, I take a line because you clearly explained that the Law has been cooked for over a year, that many times it has been about him. That's because he's complicated. However, we have only been dealing with this National Assembly since Friday. It was submitted this afternoon last Friday and there was no time to see or to consider the opinions of the institutions. Concerns were expressed not only by the Chief Judicial Inspector, which you mentioned, but also by the Supreme Court of Cassation. It's a complex law that concerns delicate subjects. The subject of the attestation to which you addressed was a topic which was discussed in the National Assembly in 2016. A widely proclaimed reform that, for one reason or another, has not worked and amendments are being imposed. This haste in legislation for other reasons makes it possible to review key questions about the judiciary every three years, create deadlines that are then postponed. By the way, this law in the Transitional Provisions does precisely this.. postpones another year and something introducing e-Justice or its full implementation. Simply, when there is such a type of legislation, the haste at first reading can very seriously hamper its final adoption at second reading. Whatever the reasons for this, it seems to me they're not justified. You should have left enough time to the MPs from the Legal Committee and from the House to be able to perform their role as arbitrator where the working groups that have done good work otherwise under this law have not reached a single opinion. This is our job here, not just to find out how far the experts have come and in 2 years we will have to do the opposite, as often happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Another line? You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u26	Dear Mr. Mitev, you may have neglected to say that in the Legal Committee it was a question, and as the replicator before me said, yes, this law has been working for a year in the Council of Law of the Ministry of Justice, in the Council of Legal Reform and the MPs of all parliamentary groups have had invitations to participate in this Council. Who as requested in these working groups, which really consisted of representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council and the magistrate's circles. If they wanted to, the MPs could have been constantly involved in these formats. They can now, when there are such formats, get acquainted and give their ideas. It was also a question of the Legal Committee, and perhaps it is nice to remind it once again: yes, we are now in the first vote. One draft law is voted in full on the principle of the bill, and whether it will be adopted or rejected is another topic. If accepted, yes, there will still be working groups and they will be in the same format where the MPs will also have the opportunity to participate in them, and in preparing the relevant proposals between first and second readings something that you said you would do. We'll come to the hypothesis when the second reading comes, again some colleagues will say, well, we didn't have time to meet each other. Well, we had the opportunity to participate in the working groups together and along with the experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Third line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, back to front. Dear colleague Lazarov, yes, you are absolutely right, it is. To the Ministry of Justice there is a specially created Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, in which they participate and are sent invitations to all the presidents of parliamentary groups, who can empower colleagues interested in this matter and the changes in this law, respectively, to participate. Why one group or another has not shown interest and has not participated, I have no way to answer this question, but the fact is that in a very transparent and public procedure these changes have been drawn up. Moreover, what I know is that a large part of them are adopted in broad consensus by the magistrates who participate in them. Regarding what my colleague Zarkov said. I don't think there's any rush. I think it's slowing down, even too slowing down this bill, because the problem with the attestation is not from today, it's not from this year, it's not from last year. Once again, the good intention to push through the fullness of the judge's self-government turns out that there is virtually no way to implement it within this framework. Good ideas, but practically unrealistic with the way it was written in the so-called big reform in 2016 in the Judicial Law. As regards the Transitional and Final Provisions and the postponement of the introduction of e-Justice, I think it was clearly stated by the representing Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Magdalenchev that this is necessary in order to implement a project applied for by the Supreme Judicial Council and this postponement is related to the implementation of this project by the Supreme Judicial Council. They have inherited it, the project I mean, from the previous Chamber of the Supreme Judicial Council and although they have to assume it, figuratively speaking, from the middle, at an accelerated pace, it was declared to be working on its implementation. I believe that this delay, which has been signed by the Transitional and Final Regulations, will be the last one in terms of e-Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u30	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In two or three years, this matter is exposed to us and corresponding changes are made. Great! And now let's assume that the proposed changes are for good and the attestations, and the new one in different ways, not much, for carrying out checks on magistrates. In other cases, when with the questions raised, which basically concern the status of magistrates, another very important one is put, which this time has not been submitted. The changes have been prepared for a year, but it seems that the Ministry of Justice, respectively, in the draft legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers, which is before us, does not raise the question of the participation of magistrates in the so-called professional organizations. Mega question! We are all aware and each of us quite first to think about what has befallen the country in recent days, which is largely due to this Famous professional organization called the Union of Judges in Bulgaria. An organization that makes protests before the Court of Justice, before the Court of Justice itself, a paradox. Take out the highest magistrates, I particularly refer to one, to protest in front of his own institution, which he runs! In my home town of Plovdiv I am very proud that only one magistrate came to such a protest. Everyone else was a front. And why didn't you ask that question again? Finally, let's end up with these fictional organizations that are trying to institutionalise themselves and from the highest place of legal expertise and morality to oppose the real institutions of us, as legislators, to dictate rules to us, to the Supreme Judicial Council, which has an extremely important role in the justice system, including the Ministry of Justice, which is also not without regard to these problems. It's no coincidence, Minister, you're here. We can't have such organizations trying in quotes to make reforms for good for 15 years in this system, like the system of the Ministry of Interior, there can't be such organizations trying to make quotes, but actually mastering one of the few still unwielded and undamaged systems in Bulgaria. This was the real problem in the amendment, honourable Members, and it had to be posed. It is not too late to submit and implement this ban between the two readings. We've done it many times, let's reach a consensus and finally say, not to these trials, because they periodically, they will constantly give birth to situations similar to what we all find ourselves in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mr. Popov, you have the floor for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Shopov, I agree with most of what you have said, but you have missed another important and very important point, which here again has not been affected in its entirety, namely the conflict of interest. Then, when a judge and let's say a lawyer who is related to him, a relative, appears in cases before him many times, or the judge is in relations with the prosecutors, nowhere is declared these relations. The very form of a declaration does not foresee them to such an extent, but there are such dependencies. The Law also does not cover these dependencies here, but should extend the conflict of interest and the notion of magistrates and, in particular, judges. That is why this issue is also very important, but you did not stress it in your speech and I am trying to complement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popov! This was a replica of the type of building that builds and imports new elements. There's nothing to object to. I was trying to focus on this mega problem. These are all problems, problems and problems that we need to solve. Here, you see with the so-called external funding, foreign engios, through Bulgarian finance programs, finance cadres, finance in quotes training of Bulgarian magistrates. Could this be the judicial system of an autonomous, independent and sovereign country?! It's clear that these are ridiculous things. But I will invite you all, no matter where these repairs come from. We from the Ataka as independent, as means, as tools, have smaller capabilities. You understand me well. It will be important for me to make this amendment, because the next moment will be back in two or three years in another parliament, as it is. And by then, these people will be running around carrying out their black case in the destruction, degradation, replacement and counterfeiting of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches? I won't. You're welcome, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a proposal on behalf of the group of BSP for Bulgaria at 10:00, after we vote on the Law, to give a 30-minute break. We would like to take advantage of the fact that the Minister of Justice is here and during this break to make an extraordinary Presidency Council. We give you a hand very well-meaning, non-participated, to gather together and wisely to resolve the issue with the several mutually exclusive bills we adopted the other day concerning the abridged proceedings, in particular the case in Sotiya. Ladies and gentlemen, you can see that there is civil disobedience there today. Police are making a statement that they will not allow citizens to the court in Sliven. The tension is increasing, the national petition is now reaching nearly 50 thousand signatures. I call you for reason and arguments. We can't let two mutually exclusive laws go simultaneously. We must urgently resolve the issue of the merger of these laws. On the 14th we go on vacation, we must not leave this matter unsolved until then. You risk increasing tensions in the country and, of course, then passing the blame on to the opposition that was on the protest. Take a 30-minute break, Chairman's Council, while the Minister is here. We want him to participate and we want to resolve the issue today, how we will act on this subject to calm people down and meet their expectations for a fair decision by the National Assembly. We have the right to take advantage of our right to rest after 10:00. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Daritkova, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not dispute the right of the BSP parliamentary group to request a break within the framework of the Staff Regulations one hour after the beginning of the meeting. However, I challenge the mechanism under which it is used because we today have a serious legislative programme, including points that you have proposed, on other socially significant cases. It was more reasonable for me, once we had completed the legislative programme, to make this Presidency Council. I'm sure the Minister of Justice would have responded. There is no situation of extremeity and improbability and therefore I think there is more tension here. It is really important that fundamental legislative decisions are not made under the influence of emotions. We will therefore participate in this Presidency Council, but I strongly object in the way in which the case is used the grief, hardships of the people and the situation to accumulate political dividends. We will participate in the Conference of Presidents, but it is clear to all of us what is the mechanism for discussing the draft laws is not happening on the Conference of Presidents, it is happening in the Committee on Legal Affairs. That's the mechanism. If you want to change the Rules or make any other way to determine what mechanism will determine the laws, then submit a proposal for a change in the Rules. Otherwise, these Rules that we have must be respected, especially by the large parliamentary groups with claims that there are good lawyers in the group. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Procedure? Dear Minister, will you be able to attend? Yeah. [[GERB lines.]] You have the floor, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's already after 10:00, it's been an hour, so we're renewing our procedural proposal, which can't be rejected. It is extremely important and must take place now, because, dear Mrs Daritkova, what should we do in the Legal Committee when two bills that are excluded from each other are voted against each other?! What to do when not just the opposition, but every person present there...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u41	Mr. Zarkov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u42	...and understands a criminal trial, says what you're proposing is impossible, and yet you're voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u43	Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Zarkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u44	What to do when you vote today one and two minutes from now the opposite.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u45	Mr. Zarkov, please! [[Noise.]] Guys, be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u46	And you're wrong...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u47	Mr. Zarkov, could you pay attention to me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u48	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u49	It's not a matter of closure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u50	You're wrong when you say the procedure is not extreme. Exactly, so she wouldn't get out of control...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u51	Mr. Zarkov, you've gone beyond this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u52	...we have to make a decision today.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u53	You're out of the procedure, Mr. Zarkov, please. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, maybe it's really good to put the bill to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Ninova, you suggested after the vote, didn't you? Yes, after the vote, so I'm going to put it to the vote right now. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary by No 902-01-49, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 137 MPs: 90, none, abstention 47. The motion is accepted. Fifteen minutes off. Please, the participants in the Conference of Presidents in the Office of the President. (After the interruption.) Colleagues, please take your seats, continue our work. Before we go to the next point, I would like to introduce you to a few words about the decision taken at the Conference of Presidents. After the extremely well-intentioned conversation, a consensus was reached to bring together the laws that concern the issue under consideration. At an extraordinary meeting next Tuesday, the Legal Commission is committed to working quickly, so that, as soon as possible, it will be presented to the MPs for a second vote. I believe that the signals given to the Conference of Presidents must reach people in order to calm the situation where there is tension. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ESTABLISH THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE SEARCH OF THE FACTS AND ASSISTANCES RELATED TO THE INTERPRETATION OF THE ARGUMENT OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO, AS WELL AS THE TROUBLE OF POLITIC NATISH ON THE MANAGEMENT AND JURNITURES OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. You have the floor for his performance, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable MPs, the topic of the unprecedented interruption of the Bulgarian National Radio and attempts to abuse the freedom of speech in the public media provokes violent public editing. The Redcolegy protested the actions of the director of the Bulgarian National Radio. Many Radio journalists have testified to the CEM about strong political pressure on them by the leadership. On the other hand, the very leadership in the face of the Director of the Bulgarian National Radio Mr. Kostov also justified his actions with pressure on him. This is why it is necessary to reveal the whole truth about what happened on the National Radio. This is not just a matter of prosecutorial review, but also a clear political reaction. The National Assembly must clarify why it interrupted the Bulgarian National Radio, was there political pressure on the radio and, if there was, who did it? That is why we propose the following: Project! DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program " Horizon" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists of the Bulgarian National Radio The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He established a Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program "Programme" of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio. 2. The Commission shall consist of 10 members of each parliamentary group, including a Chair and a Vice-President. 3. Selects the Commission's guidance and composition as follows: The President: Vice-President: Members: 4. The Commission is set up for a period of two months.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I will first put to the vote the proposal to set up the Temporary Commission. I put to the vote a first point, I will read it: He created a Temporary Commission for the Study of the facts and circumstances related to the interruption of the broadcast of the program of the Bulgarian National Radio, as well as the allegations of political pressure on the management and journalists from the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u56	The whole project!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u57	You want the whole project? We must vote then to propose the members. [[Heckling]] I get it. The project has been presented. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 124 MPs: 120 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I'd like you to come in for a proposal for a staff of your own.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we propose for President Alexander Simov and Commissioner Ivan Chenchev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Political Party GERB we propose as President of the Commission Toma Bikov and as member Diana Savateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u61	From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the European Parliament The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing as members of the Commission Yordan Tsonev and Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u63	From the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u64	We offer Krasimir Bogdanov and Rosen Zhivkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u65	And from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the Volya parliamentary group we propose as Commissioners Boryana Georgieva and Simeon Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u67	We have ten proposals as much as we voted and two proposals for the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. I will put the proposed ten people to the vote first as Commissioners, and then I will put the two candidates to the vote for President of the Commission. We are voting on the total number of Commissioners. 135 MPs voted: 133, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I will now put the two nominations to the vote for the President of the Commission. I put to the vote the proposal for Chairman Mr. Alexander Simov. They voted 132 MPs: 43, against 45, abstention 44. And now we're going to vote on Mr. Bikov's candidacy. Vote 134 MPs: 94 against 39, abstention 1. This proposal is accepted. Mr. Bikov is chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u68	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u69	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against Mr. Bikov being chairman, not disrespectful to him, I wouldn't allow it. I voted against because the main thing that this Commission has to do except, of course, all that is written in its work is that it has to answer the question: who? Is there a political impact on the radio and, if there is, who is doing it in the most direct sense of this issue? Who are the people who have achieved the political impact? I suppose we understand that people who have had political impact, especially in the context of the events in the radio, are not from the opposition, they are from the government. [[Noise and lines.]] If anyone's happy enough to come out and convince me otherwise. To say how the opposition influenced the head of the radio, how it affected the opposition, by which means? And how, by putting your man, the man who is currently a member of the government and who obviously cannot be a member of the ruling majority and not depend on him, how will he seek the blame in his colleagues? What if it turns out to be one of the guys who actually talked to him and pushed the head of the radio is in this room? How would a man of the ruling majority do that? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So, again, it's not disrespectful to Mr. Bikov. Here I doubt that a person who represents the ruling majority not only can, but will want to answer the main question: who influenced the media and who did it, especially on the National Radio, with the corresponding response, because that person who is most likely to be the one. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u71	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. I abstained from taking the attitude, but you questioned the work of a Member of the National Assembly. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since colleague Aleksandar Simov was not supported and this was the sensible decision for the President of the Commission, I propose the same for Vice-President, as it has not been proposed to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u73	Yes, thank you. [[Comments from GERB: "This is by default. "]] No, it's not by default. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria "We have to vote on it"]] I agree with you, I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u74	Where's Simov, if he's okay with it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u75	Procedure Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u76	Mr. President, I don't mind, but since the proposal was Mr. Simov to be President, there is now a proposal to be Vice-President, I will vote for the Vice-President. Of course, I'm telling my opinion. But I don't see Mr. Simov. [[a line from BSP for Bulgaria.]] to say if he agrees to it, he's gone. We are voting, our part of the House is full, yet it would be right, or formal, if you spoke to him, since Mr. Simov is absent, perhaps doing election campaigning somewhere, and has agreed to say that he agrees to be Vice-President. If so, I will vote for Mr. Simov to be Vice-President, but it would be good to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Alexander Simov to be Vice-President of the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 91, Against 9, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Mr. Simov is Vice-President of the Commission, with which we have also completed the work on this item on the agenda. We continue with the next item of our program: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ADVANTAGE THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO TAKE THE AUDIT OF CONFORMITY FOR THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE BULGARIAN NATIONAL RADIO FOR THE PERIOD OF 1 JANUARY 2017 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2019 The representatives of the National Assembly are Daniela Daritkova, Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tsipov. [[(GERB's reply:]] Yes, there is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, and there are two reports from the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out a compliance audit for the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019, No 954-02-89, submitted by Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova, Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov on 20 September 2019. At a meeting held on 26 September 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by Tsvetan Tsvetkov, President of the Court of Auditors. In the reasons for the draft decision, the importers point out that the last days in the public space are raised a debate related to the temporary suspension of the broadcast of the Bulgarian National Radio, for which the Prosecutor's Office and the Communications Regulation Commission carry out an inspection. At the same time, the Council for Electronic Media heard the radio guide in connection with the removal of a journalist from the media. Both cases cause a broad public and media response, which according to the importers requires an analysis of the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio. After the discussion of the Committee on Budget and Finance held with 17 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION on the award of an audit to the Court of Auditors for the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. 2. The audit shall start on 1 October 2019 and the deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 31 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. From the Committee on Culture and Media, who will present the Report to the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out a compliance audit for the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019, No 954-02-89, submitted by Daniela Daritkova, Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov on 20 September 2019. At a regular meeting of the Culture and Media Committee held on 26 September 2019, a draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019, No 954-02-89, submitted by Daniela Daritkova, Alexander Nenkov and Krasimir Tzipov on 20 September 2019. The meeting was attended by Tsvetan Tsvetkov, Chairman of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria. The draft decision was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. The proposal for an audit is based on the public debate as a result of the suspension of the broadcast of the Programme of the Bulgarian National Radio on 13 September 2019. Something that didn't happen during World War II. The Council for Electronic Media conducted a hearing of the management of the National Radio on another case relating to the removal from the air of a journalist from the media. For their part, the Prosecutor's Office and the Communications Regulation Commission carry out a case check with the stop of the broadcast of BNR. Both cases caused a broad public and media response. In this regard, the Court of Auditors will be given an audit of compliance with the financial management of the BNR to enable the public to be informed of the management decisions. After a vote, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly 13 votes to consider and adopt the following: Project! DECISION on the award of an audit to the Court of Auditors for the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit compliance with the financial management of the Bulgarian National Radio for the period from 1 January 2017 to 30 September 2019. 2. The audit shall start on 1 October 2019 and the deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 31 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Statements? I can't see. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The decision that we will now vote on, I personally would support it. However, I would like to bring clarity, at least for me clarity, what we are doing right now! In this decision for the last two years, from 2017 to September 2019, the Court of Auditors shall carry out an inspection, firstly, it must have done so for the period until 1 January 2019 because it is the Court of Auditors' obligation. She's doing it anyway. By the way, the problem of financing, at all, of the system on which public radio and public television works, is that the only mechanism on which they can be checked is through financial control, that is to say whether the funds are legally spent. This mechanism is working anyway and another check of whether they are legal will lead us nowhere, in my opinion. It's an attempt to put a little more smoke into the system and somehow show how concerned we are. The results of this check will, in their vast part, correspond to the results of the previous checks that are being carried out anyway. The problem with this funding is whether funds are spent not legally, but appropriately. At the moment we do not have any mechanism to control this, because for twenty-something years in the Law is the so-called Radio Fund and the TV station that is not working. And it doesn't work because no one dares to let it work, including all the governments since 1998, I think this law has been passed so far. Now, after a few months, the same you again in the Transitional and Final Regulations of the Budget will vote to be postponed by another year, as every year until now, the action of the Radio and TV Fund. This has been happening every year for 20 years! And this is what can actually provide real control over the costs of the National Radio, National Television and the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, I say again, not by legality but, where appropriate, which is extremely important. Not to mention that such an action, if the Fund works, it can be financed differently. It is not at all necessary to finance the Fund in the way it has so far been provided for in the Law through the fees, because obviously these fees are the problem. We have talked many times about the fact that funding, in general the public function of the media, is not limited to the National Radio, the National Television is wider. The fund is what can solve problems. This is a matter of a legislative initiative that should come from the majority, for the simple reason that by offering it to you we, from the opposition that we will do, you will probably not accept it. I'm using this case to tell you, first of all, that with what we do, we just smoke. It won't give us any new information about the radio's work beyond what we already have, or which we could have. What is more important here is to think about how, as politicians, to solve the problem of controlling public funds and, most importantly, freedom of speech. Once again, I say that the question of how the political impact on the National Radio and National Television as public media is being carried out is a key one again, that is the question: "Who?" and with this point that we are now accepting, we will not solve it. We import this point and accept it precisely so that we do not solve the important problem who allows themselves to influence journalism? That's what our task is, and that's the road right now. I'm going to support him because I want to see how the inspection goes, but I'm telling you that the answer to the question that's important is not going to be answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. A line? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, in pure form I am making a reply to you, because with the part where you spoke about the Court of Auditors, I am absolutely disagreeable. You've made yourself absolutely unprepared. The Court of Auditors shall have a plan to carry out audits for the year. According to this plan the Bulgarian National Radio has not been checked. Separately, the National Assembly is entitled to an extraordinary five audit to issue with its own decision, as is the case, so in this part you did not say something that is true.. The Court of Auditors has not checked the Bulgarian National Radio for the period for which the audit is awarded. It is good that you agree to understand what has happened to the financial situation. To some extent it will also give you clarity. On the subject of who? "You have spoken on the last item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. Is there a second line? Hole, Mr. Kutev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u86	Dear Mr. Glauchev, you are an accountant by profession, if I remember correctly? [[Noise and lines.]] Auditor? Yeah, which obviously suggests that you should know in this part more than I do, and I don't pretend. You are a representative, a majority MP, a former president of parliament, in my opinion, there are no former presidents of parliament. President of Parliament is the highest position in the country, I mean, I want to tell you that I respect your competence and the position you hold. But the fact that you're telling me right now that, in fact, in the last three years, no one in the country has checked how the money is spent in the National Radio is not a plus for the majority. I don't know how you see it as an apology or how you think it's important, but if the millions we give to the National Radio are not checked, it's bad. And whether they have been checked by State Financial Control, whether by the Court of Auditors, you will say that it is none of my business. The point is that with this you duplicate the checks that are being done, because the annual balance of the radio must have been verified by someone. And whoever certified it this year's balance to the Radio, he did it on the same criteria that the Court of Auditors would do it. I do not imagine others, for the simple reason that the Court of Auditors has no other powers than others. But let's see! I hope that from your check, because it will pass the audit of the Court of Auditors, in a month and a half it will enter parliament, I hope that you will be enthusiasts and then hopefully give other results. I'd love to, that would be good for me, but I'm telling you, you're calling it off. It's an old political tactic the moment you want to cover up one problem, you start to solve the other. Until now, while we were wondering if Boyko Borisov had stopped the inspection at the beer factory, we were checking whether the recordings were real................................ not whether he called, but if the recordings were real?! At the moment, you are doing the same thing - you do not check what is the political impact, which is the important issue for the state, you are doing some kind of inspection of the Court of Auditors, which you very well know how it will end. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will be very brief in my speech because I think we have already adopted the draft decision of such a committee to investigate the case that occurred in the Bulgarian National Radio. Colleagues, and in the current item that we are voting on, I am particularly addressing the previous colleagues on the left, it is quite another thing. It's about a compliance audit. The financial results and the reports that the Bulgarian National Radio has had, whether they have been checked or not checked, can be seen in the Court of Auditors' programme, which is an independent body to which we have access to its accounts, all Members of the National Assembly can get acquainted with them. Therefore, the politicisation of this topic, when we speak between the two different points, I think that the speeches that have been heard from this House may refer to the front point that we have adopted absolutely consensually, and there will be the establishment of such a committee. Colleagues, now the item to be voted on and the draft decision that we need to take is really for............................................................................................... Colleagues, please make that difference! Some of the negotiators said that they are not specialists in the field, but not to politicize this important topic, which is widely raised in society, so I hope we will get these answers. With this draft decision, let us see what financial management is and the audit of compliance with which the Court of Auditors will come up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, there is no way not to politicize the topic, given that the Prime Minister himself here stated a week ago that the parliamentary group of GERB will support the establishment of such a committee, but on one condition, if an audit of the Bulgarian National Radio is done. We're still looking for the connection. I guess you know her. I suppose that you have already been taught or instructed exactly what you should be looking for and why this audit is required, but when the Prime Minister here, from this tribune, says that this will be the condition, there is no way not to be politicized the topic and do not be angry that it is politicized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u91	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Is there another line? A hole, Mister... [[Relations from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] No, he wanted a statement, Mr. Chenchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Second line? Wait for Mr. Ivanov, please. You have the floor, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, the National Assembly is a political body in a parliamentary republic is the highest political body. Any topic in the National Assembly is political. It is good to stop with this: "Don't politicize! " - Well, if it's in the National Assembly, it's political and it's always politicized. Secondly, I do not know what will help the investigation of the financial issue by the Court of Auditors regarding the resolution of the case have there been political pressure on journalists and the Director of BNR? Even if there have been violations, well, let's find out, it's nice, there's also a prosecutor's check, but what's going to help, and is there a connection with the political pressure and the previous topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u93	There's no connection.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u94	That's your motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u95	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Hole, Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, replicating! Please do not question the integrity of the auditor's profession, because you concern a large part of this arrangement, which you are currently trying to make politicized. On the contrary, colleagues! Exactly, giving this project a solution, giving the auditors the opportunity to go do their job. I think they are the most independent, even though the House will support them in this venture. I think it is important that the answer that we should receive exactly for the funds spent, as the Bulgarian National Radio, which is on a budget voted every year by the Bulgarian Parliament, is important. I think they'll get to know all the MPs about this report, which is important. I'm not politicizing him. You're trying to politicize it, and I don't know why you're making a connection between one of the draft decisions that we've adopted at a previous point and the one that we're now accepting. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm gonna graduate. There is no dispute in what we all obviously want to achieve, because in the committees, colleagues from your parliamentary group also supported the award of this draft decision to the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u98	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is important for the Chamber to know that in 2015 there is an audit of compliance of the Bulgarian National Radio for the years 2013 - 2014, but a report has not been published to this day. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, we're asking why and we want to see a report like that. A few things have been said here. Agree, colleagues, I have little experience of the Bulgarian Prime Minister's statement from here that yes, we will support such an inquiry committee because the question is related and we all know it. Well, if we support such a committee, and you, in particular, how do you put your man in charge of it? It's a little out of the ordinary. That is what my colleague Kutev said about the Fund because this is also related to the Commission and the members of the Fund and your representatives think they will agree with this, and the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Television and the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Radio said that they need this fund very much, even lifesaving. So, as has been said here, for 20 years we are putting off the question. Well, let's not delay it anymore and solve this painful problem! In this regard, however, take it into account the whole room: 2015 the audit of compliance for 2013 and 2014, is probably done, for sure, and there is no published report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there lines? I don't see any lines. Here you are, you have the floor, dear Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, I agree with what is expressed here in this Chamber, the opinion that the National Assembly may each year entrust the Court of Auditors with five additional audits. And here we are now using this moment, as the National Assembly, and we are assigning the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the Bulgarian National Radio for a certain period. So far, so good. However, when the National Assembly is exceptionally entrusted to carry out an audit of an institution, it must have motives. I'm reading your motives. Are they the reasons for an audit of compliance? One motive is the unprecedented suspension of the broadcast of the Bulgarian National Radio, which is not a question of audit in relation to public opinion, but a political issue. Even more political and, I would say, a question of freedom of speech is the removal of a journalist from the air of the Bulgarian National Radio. That's your two motives. And the other is the resulting media interest. These are the three reasons why the Bulgarian Parliament wants an extraordinary audit of the Court of Auditors for compliance. Very interesting. The political motives, I refer here to the importers, are precisely written down in the motives they have pointed out. There is not a single motive here that is essential to such an audit, nor any doubts that have been expressed. All three motives are public policy. The growing media interest is very interesting. And here I agree with some who have spoken before in the stands that this is just for blurring out the problem. The problem here is: who influences the Radio, who restricts freedom of speech, who tries to dictate to fellow journalists to be obedient? I would like to say so.. whether this audit will open enough arguments for the right of the current director of the Bulgarian National Radio, after the scandal and the standing of journalists against it, to say that from next year he will fight for a 25% increase in their salaries? 20 years ago, I took part in such a spectacle between the authorities and journalists, which left a very good line. I hope this isn't repeated as a farce. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Are there any lines? The line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Nedyalkov! For me, the main motive is that the radio has accumulated four million deficits and this is a trend. It's a trend! National TV has a deficit of 40 million. My desire, as a member of the Media Commission, I am not among the importers of this proposal, but as a member of the Media Commission, is to subsequently help change the Law on Radio and Television, because the accumulation of deficits, and this is a structural problem, this is not even about the last management of the Radio or the last management of TV, there is such a structural problem. It is very difficult and leads to the dependence of these two institutions, because when you have a deficit of four million or a deficit of 40 million, where do you go to ask for money later to cover it? Where are you going? You come to parliament when the budget is voted, with the government, it doesn't matter who they are. And therefore, let us take advantage of this proposal, let us look at it from this position, from trying to solve this problem with the chronic deficit, which has been allowed for 30 years now, it is not now, to stop viewing BNR and BNT as some state enterprises from the 1990s, because this is the law that has been adopted 1999 and to move on, to grow, and to use this scandal at the moment for a positive change and guaranteeing the financial independence of Radio and Television. That's the big goal, because when you're financially dependent on chronic, severe deficits, you can't be free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a nutshell. I will use my right to a reply once again to explain that, indeed, what we have mentioned under the Court of Auditors' programme, the audit that we wish today, I say the National Assembly, is quite different from that which is in the programme and each year the Court of Auditors has an obligation to audit the financial audits of the Bulgarian National Radio, which are, in simple terms, whether accounting is properly conducted and the financial statements whether they contain the full and credible information. And we, colleagues, now, with the draft decision today, are to bet on a compliance audit, i.e. financial culture, internal audit, internal procedures and rules, whether they followed a budget management plan, so the two audits are different in their technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u105	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u106	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members replicating! First of all, to Mr. Bikov: Mr. Bikov, I cannot agree with your thesis that if a media such as the Bulgarian National Radio is in deficit, it depends on those who give the money, because in many of your speeches you stressed the good opposition of the Bulgarian National Radio, freedom of the press. So, freedom of the press in other media is dependent on who gives the money. Here we should note the really worthy work, Mr. Bikov, to agree with you, to many colleagues of journalists who are in the Bulgarian National Radio, in this radio, in which there is pluralism of opinions, and this is precisely because of them. It is not thanks to the National Assembly, which will now require audit, will look at the audit and will solve the problems of the Bulgarian National Radio for good. As far as improving the Law on Radio and Television is concerned, I can tell you that there may not be any need for this law at all, because it is not yet fully implemented. We should, perhaps, approach the media, which are public media and support themselves from the budget, for each of them there should be a separate law in which the rules should be laid down, and not directly be entrusted to one to elect the Director-General, but to another to give the funds. This is just one of my positions because it turns out that the SEM regulator does not always play its role as an independent regulator that is another matter. As far as this is concerned, Mr. Ivanov, that an audit is being requested, there are no reasons to require an audit, that is what I stressed. The motives are the suspension and, I'd say, the removal of a journalist from the air. These are not motives that are strong enough to request such an extraordinary audit. We have the right, as the National Assembly, to ask for extracurricular, extraordinary audits. Perhaps I would have agreed if you had recorded the deficit that is in the budget of the Bulgarian National Radio, but in your motives it is not, they are quickly written, thoughtlessly. Otherwise, if we combine our efforts, we can achieve many things in improving, so to speak, the environment that we, as Parliament, can provide to public media. This is something journalists require, and not just us, society and public opinion want it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u107	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. We continue with the speeches. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the draft decision presented to you in the Committee on Budget and Finance Report. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period from 20 to 26 September 2019. We have written answers to serve.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u108	Written answers from: - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Krasimir Yankov and Chavdar Velinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Danail Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Dimitar Tanchev; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. That's how we move on to oral questions and questions. Mrs. Mariana Nikolova will be the first to respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. Asked by MP Pavel Shopov about the Strategy for the Family and Child. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov, if you're in the courtroom. I understand it's coming, we can wait 15 seconds. I was informed that Mr. Shopov was coming. Here you are, Mr. Shopov, the National Assembly and the audience are waiting for us. Here you are to develop your inquiry to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, from a year ago in the public domain, among the media, in this Chamber, among non-governmental organizations, in general in the whole society, I would say the topic of the Famous Concept or Strategy for the Child. This all started with your predecessor, but not for a moment during this time the subject did not lose its edge. I believe that you are the most competent person in the government, at all in the country as deputy prime minister in charge of these issues, to finally shed light on the Bulgarian public from the highest and official place for this strategy, which, by the way, no one has seen yet a strategy that collects so much evil against which protests are being made, in connection with which the Holy Synod has also spoken, a topic on which we are all engaged. There are several questions for you: what is this strategy? Is that what it's called, or is it called a concept, or maybe it's some other name, but someone somewhere called it that? Where and by whom has the decision been made to develop such a strategy, is such a strategy or concept at all? Who's assigned, what's the team, are non-governmental organizations involved? What is funding, where does it come from, what are the grants allocated to participants in the discussion or the development of this concept? I believe that today, at last, all these questions must be answered to the parents who are protesting, an answer to all of us who are engaged in a possible adoption, what are the principles on which it is based, its main positions? All these questions I ask as a question, not as a question, because both as a time, and as an answer can be presented more than the circumstances, than the facts, in order to finally shed light on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Mrs. Nikolova, you have five minutes to answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the peoples! Dear Mr. Shopov, thank you for asking so that this matter can finally be clarified. At the beginning, I would like to make it clear explicitly that there is no Strategy for the Family and the Child, but there is a draft National Strategy for the Child 2019 - 2030, which is suspended and is not a fact in legal peace. The national strategy for the child shall be established in accordance with art. 1, para. 3 of the Child Protection Act. The strategy should in principle set the state policy for child protection in the long term. It is accepted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. On the basis of the strategic document, the Council of Ministers adopts a national program for child protection, which is proposed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Chairman of the State Agency for Child Protection. Following the expiry of the period of action of the National Strategy for the Child 2008? 2018 at the 39th meeting of the National Council for Child Protection, held on 9 May 2018, a decision was taken to establish an interinstitutional working group for the development of a new strategic document. According to the Child Protection Act, protection is carried out through the President of the State Agency for Child Protection, the.................................... through the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Health and the Mayors of Municipalities. By order of the President of the State Agency for Child Protection, an interdepartmental working group was established to draw up a new strategy for the child. The project "National Strategy for the Child 2019 " 2030" was prepared by this interdepartmental working group involving one representative of the state institutions listed above, representatives of the National Association of Municipalities, as well as representatives of non-governmental organizations with the object of the activity. A number of experts with professional experience in the field of children's rights, university lecturers, sociologists, political scientists and specialists from international organizations in the face of UNICEF and the World Bank were also attracted to the working group. During the various stages of the drafting of the document, members of the Advisory Council on Children's Affairs took part in which experts from different areas concerned with children's policies and engaged in strategic planning and policy-making were involved. A separate consultation meeting was also held with members of the National Council for Child Protection, representatives of state institutions at Deputy Ministers and Heads of State Authorities. The aim of the meeting is to synchronize the key steps and commitments of state institutions in the development of the strategic document. On 1 October 2018, the State Agency for Child Protection together with Plovdiv University organized a national consultation meeting in Plovdiv. At this meeting are discussed the policies for children in relation to the thematic areas of the draft new strategic document. More than 150 representatives of higher schools, trade unions, principals of schools and kindergartens, heads of state institutions and representatives of NGOs took part in it. Children have also been involved in the consultation process and have submitted their proposals before the start of the national consultation meeting. During the preparation of the document, the President of the State Agency for Child Protection held meetings with representatives of different professional areas related to children's policies and over 30 bilateral meetings, including MPs from the National Assembly committees. The aim was the National Strategy for the Child 2019 project to be consistent with the priorities of the government, as well as with the commitments of our country as a member of the European Union and other international organisations, with the global objectives for sustainable development of the UN, the European Pillar of Social Rights related to the care and support of children, the Strategy for the Rights of the Child 2016 - 2021 of the Council of Europe and the basic principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The draft National Strategy for the Child was presented and adopted by a decision of the National Council for Child Protection at a meeting held on 19 December 2018. The project was published for public discussion between 10 January and 8 February 2019. However, a significant number of negative opinions were received within that period. For this reason, the draft strategy has been suspended, absolutely no interdepartmental coordination procedure has been given, and has not been submitted to the Council of Ministers for consideration. Such a document, as I have already pointed out above, does not exist in legal peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Shopov, come in for two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From your reply, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you can see that such a document does exist, is working on it and has been working for a long time without the public understanding and understanding of a practice that is not new. Such documents are carried out, they are dealt with in a similar way, always in the dark, and at some point they are thrown into public peace to be quickly accepted and in the dark. It is evident from your response that thanks to the activity of Bulgarian citizens has come to a halt of the project. Your words were so well measured, they were just so fried, and your answer is just so that the real facts don't come out. The main question I asked you is: who funded it? You were talking about engios. Which engios? Sorosoids engiota, whose mother engio is the Foundation for Bulgaria?! You didn't say anything about basic situations against which citizens protest, against which the Holy Synod came up with an opinion, which is extremely in character. You have named this for the first time, this has not been clear so far, exactly the period 2019 - 2030. I remember a strategy like this about ten years ago, a concept of what is called Roma inclusion. It was the same approach there. My supplementary question in the procedure that I have for you is: which engios are involved specifically to list names, what have they received as grants, as money? You didn't say, and you didn't answer my question, who inspired, by what order, because that was my written question, who inspired the creation of this concept or this strategy that we are talking about today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u115	Thank you. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the state policy on child protection has not been left without legal grounds. It is based on the Child Protection Act and the Rules of its Application. For such funding, Mr. Shopov, which you point out, there will be no legal basis at all and any other grounds at all, as documents and regulations are drawn up by public sector representatives. I made it very clear and stressed that this happened by order of the President of the State Agency for Child Protection and the competent institutions and agencies involved in the development of the project, as well as representatives of the non-governmental sector who were invited to participate in the working group. So we can't talk about funding at all. I would like to emphasise that the state bodies for child protection, which I listed in my reply, have their own established mechanism of interaction and cooperation in accordance with their competences in the area of child protection and aim to ensure an effective system with regard to prevention and control of children's rights and support for family care. Quality services that are relevant for supporting families and children, for children with disabilities; police protection for children at risk is also being developed; control is also being carried out when passing children across the Bulgarian state border; pre-school and school education is provided; support is given to children with prominent gifts; special care is being taken for mother and child health. The mayors of municipalities ensure the implementation of the state policy for child protection in the municipalities and coordinate the activities of protection at local level. As I have already stressed, the document has been suspended, it has not gone through inter-agency coordination and has not been imported and accepted by the Council of Ministers. Once again, I stress that such a final document does not exist at present in legal peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Shopov, you have the opportunity to express your attitude within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u117	In fact, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, from your answer, the most important and most comforting thing is that the document is not accepted because it smells like terrible things here. It smells like a replacement of traditional values, for bringing children and parents, the whole society into a regime of neoliberal thinking and approach. There are many cases, we hear in the media, about what is being done in some Scandinavian countries, how to take a child from a mother, because that is actually the goal for us as well. Through communism art. 3 Of the Family Code had an obligation for children to be raised in a communist spirit. Obviously, the purpose of this document, which I see that you support and have nothing against it, is to educate children in a neoliberal spirit, a way that is unacceptable to our Christian morality and our traditional views. In this regard, we have also seen the document from the Holy Synod, which, for me, is an instance of fidelity, an instance of correctness, for which we from the Ataka will fight. The conclusion of your response is that the Bulgarians must watch. The fact that the document is suspended at this stage and has not become a legal fact and source, and the obligation to implement, is reassuring, but not the last word. It is obvious that the government and those like you are bound to carry out another criminal case against the Bulgarians, in this case the children... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u118	Time, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u119	...in one sense and in one direction, which are foreign to the Bulgarian tradition, to the Bulgarian faith. In this regard, this document does not contain, I am sure, the possibility to introduce faith in Bulgarian schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u120	Mr. Shopov, time's up. Please end it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u121	Yeah, one last thing, I'm graduating. If there were such predictions within this document, it would be one positive side of it. When I see from whom he is created and the guidelines in which he leads us, it is clear to me that this most important question is once again ignored by the locals, neglected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. This also exhausted parliamentary control of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy. Thank you for your participation, Mrs. Nikolova. We move on to the next representative of the executive power. "The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer first a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov about the state and repair of the road from the district of Knyazhevo to the road hub. Here you are, Mr. Vladimirov, to develop your question. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, once again I will address you with a question about the condition and repair of the I-1 road from Knyazhevo district to the road hub. This, according to traffic cams, is one of the busiest sections in Bulgaria, and for the past year the average 24-hour intensity of the car traffic has passed over 30 thousand cars. Despite the reverse movement introduced by signs, several days of the week the traffic jams and taps continue to be almost daily in the direction of Sofia or vice versa. Once again, I recall that at the end of 2017 and in 2018 the section of the road passing through the territory of Sofia Municipality was renovated. The rest, which passes through the territory of Pernik Municipality, has not been repaired, despite the assurances of your predecessor, as well as you that there will be a repair of the road. In 2017 and 2018, then the Minister, and now Deputy Minister Nikolay Nankov said that for the repair of this part of the road 6 million were allocated. lv. They will be enough to complete the renewal of the road. My question to you is: is road I-1 being repaired from the district of Knyazhevo to the road hub of Daskalovo, which flows through the municipality of Pernik, as well as the introduction of reversible traffic through traffic lights?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Come in for an answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vladimirov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency are taking into account the importance of road I-1 Sofia. The first-class road in the section from the district of Knyazhevo to the road hub of Daskalovo actually conducts large road traffic. Over the years, the Agency has considered a number of options for easing the intensity of traffic, including the implementation of major repairs by which to sew road lanes in the tri-band sections. However, such reconstruction would affect properties and some of the properties in urbanised territory and would inevitably require estrangement procedures. For this reason, the implementation has fallen away from the investment intentions of the Agency. In the meantime, with the construction of the highway, Lyulin, now part of Struma Motorway, a large number of road vehicles are being redirected to the motorway route. However, road I-1 in the section from the district of Knyazhevo to the road hub of Daskalovo is still a preferred route by the residents of Pernik district as it makes the most direct connection with the capital. Taking this into account, in recent years we have committed ourselves to improving the state of the road from Sofia to Pernik through the implementation of a complete repair of the section from Knyazhevo district to a road hub. As I have already informed you, in February, after a preliminary assessment of the route, it was found that its condition in the territory of the district of Sofia was significantly worse than in the region of Pernik. For this reason, as well as because of the large flow of vehicles that pile up at the entrance and exit of the capital, the repair activities of the road started first from the section in Sofia from Alexandrov Bridge to the border with Pernik district. Of course, we do not underestimate the state of the Pernik district and we are aware that this section is extremely important and needs to be fully repaired. I have made a commitment to you and discussed with the experts of the Agency on the road infrastructure and the opportunities for inclusion of the site in the Programme for Preventive Repair 2019. Unfortunately, in this year, the budget for the ongoing repair and maintenance of Republican roads is very limited, which hinders the realization not only of this road section of its repair, but also of many other important road sections that need it. The maintenance programme was restructuring and a large part of the planned sites dropped out for financial reasons. I stress that it is not the lack of desire but the lack of financial resources that is the main reason why the road repairs in Pernik district were not commissioned this year as well. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency will continue to look for opportunities to carry out repair activities on the road in Pernik District by including the site in a future investment programme of the Agency. The introduction of a reversible movement as part of the permanent organisation of movement in the tri-band section of the territory of Pernik district is not foreseen at this time by the Road Infrastructure Agency. From km 282+485 to km 285+600 the road is four-band. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for reminding me, Mr. Chairman, I'll finish up in my ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u126	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Here you are, Mr. Vladimirov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, without creating tension with your deputy, but Mr. Nankov was working a lot more effectively. When he gave answers from the parliamentary platform, he tried to make specific commitments with deadlines, especially on issues that concern a large number of people. The Pernik road is one of the most intense sections in the country, as you mentioned. It is approaching as traffic to the Trakiya highway and is much busier than the Lyulin highway. I think that your Ministry, prioritizing the road sections in the country, should be a priority and should be repaired as quickly as possible, because according to your colleague, Minister of Interior, in just recent years we have had very severe car accidents with about 10 deaths. I hope in your jacket you will make a specific commitment, not reply to me clerical, administrative, in the future unclear time when it will actually begin. The segment isn't that long, it's not worth hundreds of millions to repair. When will your Ministry do the procedure and assign the extremely busy section to repair and the introduction of a reversible movement? You said, "You're out of the way." When will the reverse movement take place, but with traffic lights? What is carried out as a reversible movement on one part of the days of the week is extremely hard-working and not so effective. The plugs, congestion and harassment on all travelers continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u128	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. You have the floor for the duvet, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, I understand your preferences to Minister Nankov in his capacity as such when he answered your questions 2017 - 2018 and made specific promises and made specific commitments. You won't hear this from me unless I'm 100% sure of what I'm taking on as a commitment. I have infinite respect for this tribune to make commitments that I cannot fulfill. So, 2019, once the repair programme is prepared, the Agency's investment programme will be made available, I will personally inform you of the commitment I can take to repair this road. Regarding the reversible movement, the distance from Dragichevo to Daskalovo is 1 km. In this part are provided two lanes for movement in the direction of Sofia, which is why it is not necessary to introduce a reversible movement as part of the permanent organization of the movement. This is the opinion of road experts, experts from the Agency, so at the moment what is being implemented is a temporary reversal movement, you know, on certain days of the week and certain hours. The order for this temporary organization is until 1 January 2020. During the rest of the week we have a permanent organization of the movement in Pernik region, which provides two lanes in the direction of Sofia and one tape in the direction of Pernik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MP Nadia Klisurska about the status of the bridge of the Maritsa River, Pazardzhik, part of Republican road II-37. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, on 18 October last year I asked you a question about the status of the Maritsa bridge, Pazardzhik, part of Republican road II-37. In the answer you point out that the condition of the bridge is poor with cracks and tracks, and the sections of the joints are highly compromised, allowing water to enter along the lower section. This, in turn, leads to a high degree of concrete damage and the activation of corrosion processes on the armies. You also point out that on 23 October 2018, an expert opinion was prepared on the findings of defects and that there are prescriptions for their removal in order to restore the normal operational state of the facility. For factology, I would like to clarify that the maintenance of the bridge is carried out by Pazardzhik Municipality according to a signed agreement protocol with the Agency. The bridge facility over the Maritsa River is located in a section where the routes of Republican road I-8 Sofia The facility was built in 1964 and since then no major repairs have been carried out on it. Unfortunately, a year later nothing was taken. In this regard, my question is: when will specific measures be taken relating to the urgent repair of the facility?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. You have the floor to answer, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, yes, as I informed you in the previous response on October 23rd, specialists of the Institute of Roads and Bridges at the Road Infrastructure Agency did a survey of the Maritsa River Bridge in Pazardzhik. In the examination have been established, as you have already quoted from my previous response, a number of shortcomings and damage to a bridge structure that worsens its condition. One part of the problems originated from inaccuracies in the Project, on which the bridge was built in 1964, as the design documentation was drawn up on the basis of the design, calculation and technological capabilities in force at that time. Another part of the problems are the result of the long-standing operation of the facility, combined with the impact of intensive traffic and the environment. The generally identified problems of the facility can be divided into damage on the road, on the top structure and on the bottom construction. The opinion of the experts is that the facility is indeed in poor operational condition and it is necessary to carry out repair and reconstruction works on a preliminary draft. According to the opinion of the specialists in March this year, the Regional Road Management Pazardzhik tasked the road support company in the area to prepare a project for the repair of the facility, taking into account the recommendations of the specialists from the Institute of Roads and Bridges. Given the severe condition of the gerber beams on the bridge and in order to identify the most rational solution for their recovery, which will be laid down in the repair project, the company conducted several inspections of the facility with specialists constructors. As a result, two options were proposed to restore the gerber beams, each considering a different approach to repair. These options are to be examined by experts of the Institute on Roads and Bridges for assessment and final decision on which of them to implement the restoration of beams. The road support company will develop a project to repair the facility, including the selected repair option, as well as any other necessary rehabilitation activities on the bridge. In view of the above, by the end of this year we will have clarity on what types of construction works will be needed, how much the construction of the bridge will come out. In accordance with the necessary funds, the Agency will seek in 2020 an option to include this facility in the repair programme. As I have informed you in the previous reply, as you have said, the current maintenance is indeed under the Controversial Protocol for 2019 between Pazardzhik Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, as well as winter maintenance in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u134	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska, for a reply within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I would like to tell you that I am not satisfied with the answer you are giving us because the delay in this urgent repair that you are commenting on will lead to a very serious emergency situation. You say that by the end of the year all options will be considered, and the budgetary procedure is due in exactly a month and a half. Please take the necessary action earlier to make the decision and must include an amount for next year for the repair of this bridge facility. I am convinced that this facility will continue to be compromised until the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works takes concrete action on the construction of the Western ring road. You know that there was a project designed in 2014. The matching of two Republican routes across the central part of the city makes traffic difficult. All this traffic is oriented through this bridge facility, and there's an alternative one built five years ago. I hope that in the next year in the budget procedure, in addition to the repairs of this bridge facility, funds will be planned for the construction of this western ring road, which is extremely necessary for the city, because large traffic not only leads to certain situations related to traffic safety, but leads to large pollution, dusting and high noise. I hope you'll answer me in the backyard that you'll be planning next year and possible means to build this so-called Western ring road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u136	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Now we'll find out from Mrs Avramova. Here's a line for you, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I understand your concern about the technical condition of the bridge facility. I want to assure you that experts of the Road Infrastructure Agency, as well as the Regional Road Management, are monitoring the status of the bridge, so you can be calm. At the moment it is not an emergency, so after the preparation of the project the repair of this bridge facility will be commissioned. When we discuss and prepare the Agency's 2020 programme, we will try to prioritize, within the established budget of the Agency, these road sections in the country, which are in the most difficult condition and need the most repair. My wish is also to have funds for all needs and every Friday when you ask me questions about urgent repairs in Bulgaria on the Republican road network, I have the opportunity to respond to all of you that we will start immediately repairing. Of course, the reality is quite different, we have a limited budget and we have to comply with it, so we will prioritize with colleagues what is most urgent and should be started as repairs 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u138	This concludes the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova, for participating in the parliamentary control. Two questions are to be asked to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first one is from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova on the changes related to ensuring better social protection of the most vulnerable groups during the heating season 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, following the entry into force of the amendments and additions to Ordinance No 5 of 2008 on the conditions and procedures for granting targeted heating aid published in the Official Journal of 28 June 2019 and the numerous statements made that the changes are related to ensuring better social protection for the most vulnerable groups by extending the scope of the aided persons and families, is it possible to take into account a positive effect on the same period of the previous year? We are aware that the period of submission of applications for targeted heating aid has not yet expired, as the deadline is until 31 October 2019, but is there an increase in indicators for aided persons and families from risk groups at present? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Petkov. Colleagues, to ask, a little louder is the noise from the auditorium than is acceptable. Here you go, Mr. Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u141	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, the main priority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is to provide social protection to the most vulnerable risk groups, which is why this year continued to ensure the social protection of the lowest income and risk groups of the population by providing targeted heating aid. In this regard, action was taken to amend the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for granting targeted heating aid, which extended the scope of supported persons and families, increased significantly the amount of aid, optimized the mechanism of granting the aid, refined the differentiation of beneficiaries, created a mechanism for stimulating children's participation in the educational process. I would like to mention here that these changes were possible as a result of the significantly larger budget resource provided for this programme in the Ministry's budget for 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, According to information from the Agency for Social Assistance on 24 September 2019 applications for targeted heating aid have submitted 247 552 persons and families and have issued 189 361 orders for the granting of target heating aid. The funds paid as of 31 August 2019 for the heating season are 40 million. 626 thousand. £65. 92 171 persons and families. For comparison, they submitted for the same period of 2018 applications-declarations for receiving targeted aid for heating 203 401 persons and families and issued 154 982 orders for granting targeted aid for heating. As of 31 August last year for the 2018 heating season, the funds paid were 23 million. 668 thousand. £378. 43,646 faces and families. When comparing the data on the allocated heating aid between 1 July 2019 and 24 September 2019 and the same period of last year, an increase in the aid granted to the target groups has been extended, namely those with disabilities, the elderly, and especially those who live alone, which is in a range of 1000 to 5000 persons for each of these target groups. The data reported show a positive effect of the actions taken to extend the scope of the energy support target groups, which is demonstrated by the increased number of persons and families entitled to receive the aid. In connection with the government's policy aimed at stimulating the return and detention of children in the education system, three new target groups were introduced. These groups include children who do not go to school; children who do not go to school but are registered at the Department of Labour and Parents who raise children who do not go to school. In order to achieve an incentive effect for the return and detention of children at school, it is envisaged to limit access to the aid and to set restrictive access limits for them. As you mentioned, the submission of applications for this aid is due until 31 October, so the data submitted are not definitive, but they clearly outline the positive trend mentioned. In view of the above, I believe that, with the adoption of the amendments and additions to the legal framework of the Ordinance, the support processes for persons and families entitled to targeted heating aid have been optimised and improved. This ensures the ability of more and more Bulgarian citizens to have the right to receive the necessary social support according to the financial capabilities of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Petkov. You have an opportunity for a line, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer from which it became clear: firstly, that there is an increase in the target heating aid during the 2019 heating season for persons and families from the lowest income and vulnerable social groups. These are mostly lonely living adults and disabled people. Secondly, the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy have a positive effect on the social protection of persons and families from risk groups according to the financial capabilities of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u144	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Do you have a wish for a duplicate, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Angelova, I take the right of the duplicate only to add that our expectations, which I think are realistic based on the data I read before you, are that this year more than 250,000 persons and families will receive support, targeted heating aid for the upcoming heating season, which is significantly increased in size. I will say that for the five months for which this assistance is granted.. it is granted at once, in full, this year the families and persons receive BGN 455. 50s, which is 22% more the size of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u146	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Claudia Grigorova on opportunities to preserve the employment commitment of the people in retirement age. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u147	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Positive trends in the labour market in recent years have been linked to employment growth and job creation. This creates favorable conditions for older people to stay on the labour market for longer. Elderly people can complement their income by working. Working pensioners with skills are a valuable resource for employers. Sometimes they can apply these skills under specific conditions and under improved working conditions. Employers tend to improve working conditions, and we know that many programs also exist for this. In the context of demographic problems and the related reduction of the active labour force, are they looking for and what opportunities to maintain the employment commitment of pensioners? What are the government's policies in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grigorova. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Petkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, the positive trends in the labour market in recent years related to employment growth and job creation create favorable conditions for older people to stay at work longer. According to data from the labour force monitoring in the second quarter of this year, employees aged 65 years and older are 97 700. The employment rate for this group is 6.6%, and the growth compared to the second quarter of 2018 is 1.3% less. In comparison, the employment rate of persons aged 65 years and over average for the European Union is around 6%. Older people can complement their income from retirement by working. In the context of demographic trends related to ageing and population reduction combined with an increase in life expectancy, it is important that measures which help older people to remain more active on the labour market. A positive effect on the employment of the persons in this group has, firstly, investments in safe and healthy working conditions due to the greater likelihood of diseases. Secondly, opportunities for participation in training due to rapid digitalisation changes. Thirdly, effective intermediary employment services. The Employment Promotion Act regulates intermediary services that help pensioners find jobs. Persons who have acquired the right to a pension may register at the employment offices and use the following services: information on announced vacancies, mediation on information and employment and psychological assistance. The observations of the experts at the Employment Agency show that more and more often crucial to the choice of employers are the proven skills of the applicants, both professional and personal. Engagement, responsibility, discipline, working habits are appreciated positively by employers. More and more employers accept their presented profiles of people at retirement age. The employment agency's efforts to activate and register at the employment offices of people at retirement age have been mobilised in the context of a shortage of staff. For the period January "August this year', a total of 1486 registered persons who acquired pension rights have been employed with the assistance of the labour intermediaries. Working pensioners with skills are a valuable resource for employers. However, many of the skills that are crucial to business and workers today are getting old in a short period of time and will be replaced by the demand for new ones. In this context, it is important for older people to have a wide range of skills to stay at work longer. Improving access and development of job training opportunities that allow them to combine work and training create indisputable conditions for high levels of participation in the labour market. To conclude, I would like to emphasise that an important role in extending work life has also been played by actions to promote the experience and good practices of employers to exploit the potential of older workers, including to pass on the experience gained to younger workers. The measures are also important to create positive public attitudes and raise awareness of the benefits of long work life in older people. In this process, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to be an active partner for business and for people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. I'll fix it right away. You don't want a line. Okay. This exhausted parliamentary control of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you, dear Mr. Petkov, for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to the last for today Minister Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, who will answer three questions. The first is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev on the payment of the benefits to the private holdings in the country because of African swine fever. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u151	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! One of the measures to limit African swine fever was also the voluntary use of pigs on personal holdings for me. Compensation with 300 leva to disinfect those who made the commitments created a prerequisite to limit the disease in the country, but at the same time also created a lot of problems that I want with my question to clarify do they really exist and how will they be overcome in the future? After lists have been drawn up to compensate these holdings, many reports show that those lists prepared by mayors include people who do not have animals or who do not have animals are not on the lists, which means that the feeling was a problem in identifying the number of farms in the backyard in each populated area. Apart from that, those who received the compensation and committed to destroying their animals, it turns out that they may not have done so in the way it is required, because a few days ago, the Regional Food Safety Directorate, Dobrich, began to make repeated inquiries about whether the animals were really destroyed. My questions to you are related to this first before we proceed to the implementation of the measure which we welcome and which was necessary, has objective information been gathered about the situation in each of the settlements on the number of farms, as well as the number of animals in them? You, Madam Minister, in an interview of your own, state that personal holdings were left out of control and your commitment, your desire to change this in the coming years, including with a change in the regulations, focusing on the topic of Biosecurity and Safety, as an important part in solving the problems with the complex epizootic situation in the country, including African swine fever. Which institution will exercise control over personal holdings and monitor the implementation of their commitments in the next period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the answer, Mrs. Taneva, within three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, to start from the beginning of your question they were several within the scope. On the issue of African swine fever, I think we've said enough about her and I'll limit myself only to the fact that she's really a highly contagious viral disease. Many measures have been taken. I thank all the people who have implemented the recommendations of the Food Safety Agency, the Regional Epizootic Headquarters and have taken measures that have affected personal holdings in order to reduce the epizootic risk and limit the damage of the disease. Without their understanding and the implementation of these measures, the damage would surely have been greater. This is the opinion of the specialists in this area and of the scientific collaborators. When and before we proceed with this measure, all these measures have been taken with appropriate consultations, with experts from the Commission, the scientific community, the Risk Assessment Centre. Undoubtedly there was such preliminary information, the number of holdings that were submitted on a list at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry was 34,821. The applications submitted in the Regional Food Safety Directorates are 29 500; the financial support is at the time of 8 million. 850,000. BGN paid in 1691 settlements in 179 municipalities. This information was collected through regional epizootic committees by the mayor of the settlement and the official veterinarian. Yes, in interviews I have said that I can't say otherwise, these personal holdings didn't have a registration in the Food Agency's system. The reasons for this are many, including the fact that they did not meet the requirements for a personal holding, namely at the time under Regulation No 44 "growing only pigs for fattening up to 5 pieces. For this reason, of course, and others, they were not registered and the inventory or census for the needs of limiting the epizootic risk was done the summer when the decision was taken and the implementation of this measure. Checks are being carried out now. All signals, since the drawing up of these lists were made by the mayors of settlements and veterinarians, were public and all those who had signals that there were wrongfully included people were checked, where there were doubts, payment was suspended. We have such cases of denied applications, I can even list them by municipalities. Yes, there are checks at the moment, not just in Dobrich. This is about received signals. We have to be objective. This measure is applied on the eve of the local elections and I cannot deny that in some settlements there have been established attempts to use this measure in one sense or another and in view of the upcoming elections. We are also doing checks at the moment on the principle of risk analysis in other areas to determine whether everything submitted, confirmed and signed by the mayors and the veterinarian corresponds to the data submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u155	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, there is a problem, as long as you realize it. I suppose that from now on, the system of control and enforcement of the laws in the country will be in the area of extreme attention from you, because the fact that there is no inventory of the animals before the start of the measure has created precisely these difficulties in identifying the personal holdings which should accordingly implement the prevention measures of African swine fever. However, in the Animal Treatment Act, for example, it is the mayors' duty at the beginning of each year to provide information to the Food Agency regarding the number of animals by species and to be a basis for knowing in the state, however, what is happening. Secondly, many of the private holdings shared that they were willing to be registered, but this did not happen because private veterinarians refused in any form the conclusion of contracts from now on that is a prerequisite that they should not be registered as establishments. And perhaps a third is rather an issue that is important. You are saying that it is necessary to increase the safety. It is clear that small farms can hardly allocate such funds. Do they seek opportunities and ways to help them so that they can realise in the long term this safety that will protect these farms from the possibility of suffering such losses as they currently need to, and this epidemic has caused problems with them in order to be able to meet the requirements for the realization of their intentions? And the fact that animals are kept in private farms is a tradition that has long existed, and we shouldn't lightly forget it, we're clearing it out just because there's a problem with one disease or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! Only for the previous answer to add that during the period 9 September 2019 inspectors from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency carried out 2210 inspections at the premises of the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, the appropriate measures have been taken and we continue with these checks. That should be clear. The disease of African swine fever has entered, it has caused damage. We are all fully aware, and we have no desire, neither see nor want anyone to change their traditions or lifestyle, but we need to know what conditions we can continue under. Our efforts from now on will be focused on explaining to the personal owners how and under what conditions to continue raising domestic pigs for personal needs. In this regard, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has made quite understandable language requirements, described even with exemplary drawings, they are simple and with personal efforts can be done these things because it is more about discipline, compliance with hygiene standards than investment in private agriculture. They are simple, namely: pigs for fattening to be kept only on personal holdings in Regulation No 4, where we cook changes, we will propose that they are only up to three pieces, must be enclosed, cannot be released freely, not to be kept together with other animals, those pigs for fattening not to leave the personal holding, to be consumed only for personal use, not to leave the private yard, there must be a place for storage of feed not to be given in fresh condition, and there must be a bathtub for hygiene and for changing the clothes they eat. In other words, more than the biosecurity conditions in personal holdings subject to hygiene and cultivation rules. We need to be aware that if we want to, and I think that we all want to continue our traditions to raise domestic pigs for private purposes, we need to do so with these conditions and enforce these basic hygiene habits and rules of cultivation. Currently, 12 countries from all over Europe have African swine fever and there is not a single country that has been declared a clean zone since the entry of this virus. There is no open vaccine, and we need to know that in order to continue our life in the old way with regard to pig farming, it must be done accordingly in order for the episootic risk to be low and not to be injured.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. I have given a little more time so that you can clarify these important questions for people. There is a question again from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev regarding the approval of projects of the local initiative groups from the Rural Development Programme, 2014 - 2020. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u159	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, there are many signals from the country that are disturbing, and they are related to the activities of local initiative groups. The reason for the delay may also be objective, but at present, at most, local initiative groups have expressed concern that they do not have approval of projects, financing and advance payments. This creates a certain tension and risk from the point of view of the absorption of funds precisely for these local initiative groups, which are an extremely important part of the entire Rural Development Programme, given that they are aimed at the respective settlement to address the issues of small farms and have already gained experience and traditions in their realization. You remember in the first programming period there was almost no interest in creating local initiative groups, but in this period, in the current programming period there was even a competitive choice and many of the strategies were not approved because of the lack of a budget. At present, the initiative groups are 64, in two receptions, but also those approved in the first reception two or three years ago, and those approved a year ago are experiencing difficulties that make us uncomfortable that they cannot implement the strategies they have written down in their documents. Our question to you is related to this: what is the current situation with regard to the negotiation and financing of local initiative groups? Is there a risk of loss of funds, given that, according to European Union rules, if project financing is below 50% of the available resource by 30 June 2019, the funds can be reduced accordingly to 25% compared to the initially pledged funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u161	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova! According to a reference from ISU, the project proposals approved by the local initiative groups are 724, and those on the Reserve List are 155. The total amount of the subsidy applied for for financing for all submitted project proposals amounts to 468 million. 82,000. lv. In the Directorate-General for Rural Development, there are no applications for payment for contracts concluded with the Fund for Rural Development and beneficiaries in relation to the submitted projects, which is why there is no payment made. With regard to the measures taken to overcome the accumulated delay in processing the procedures of local initiative groups, I inform you that 38 staff from the Regional Directorates of the Fund of Agriculture who will carry out tasks for the central management of the Paying Agency under Sub-measure 19.2 by the end of 2019. However, their full inclusion in the operational work on the Sub-measure is taking place gradually, albeit at the fastest possible pace. The entire administrative capacity of the Fund is fully entrusted to avoid increasing the risk of loss of funds. I take this opportunity to point out that the delay in the approval of the procedures of the local initiative groups is due to the fact that until now, in total, the ISU has completed 17 adoptions under different sub-measures from the Rural Programme 2014 With regard to this possible reduction of 25% of the budget under the Approach, the Community-led local development will take place if less than 50% of the funds are agreed by 30 June, I would like to make the following clarification. The order of Art. 40, para. 2 of Decree No 161 of the Council of Ministers of 2016 laying down the rules for coordination between the managing authorities of the programmes and local initiative groups and the local initiative fishing groups for implementing the VOMR approach provides that, depending on the agreed financial resources within the approved strategies, the management bodies of the programmes may transfer funds from approved strategies to other measures under the relevant programme not earlier than 30 June 2019. A similar transfer of funds may take place under the following conditions: upon amendment or termination of an agreement for the implementation of a VOM strategy, upon amendment or addition of the financial terms of the contract for the projects to the measures of the Strategy as a result of changes in legislation, upon termination of the contract for a project to the measures of strategies and request of the beneficiary, upon unilateral termination by the managing authority of the programme concerned, in the event of contracts for projects to the measures of the Strategy in accordance with Article 2. 40, para. 2 of the same decree, when, after the conclusion of the negotiations on announced measures, non-negotiable funds remained on them, with less than 20 per cent implementation of each of the common indicators laid down under the VMP Strategy within the time limit laid down in art. 40, para. 2 of the same decree. Transfer of funds is an option for the programme concerned and does not automatically occur in the presence of any of the following hypotheses. Such an opportunity has been discussed at meetings between representatives of the managing authorities of the programmes financing the Approach and local initiative groups held at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. The deadline quoted has expired and no programme managing body has stated that it will take this opportunity. In view of this, at present there is no risk of loss of funds under the Approach.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, what I understand is that there are no payments made or they are minimal, but the reason is that there is no contracting, there are no approved public contracts, especially for projects that concern municipalities and from now on the process stops. The administrative capacity with this is a problem in each programme with its late onset and accumulation of measures. This is not the first time that measures have been accumulated in practice in a year, year and a half, their reception. However, in this programming period there are also local initiative groups implementing projects and other operational programmes. What can be understood from the talks with representatives of local initiative groups is that the organization for the implementation of other operational programmes is much better. For example, there is a representative of the Ministry who participates in the committees in the Operational Programme, respectively automatically with the participation in the committee of the representatives of the Ministry or the Programme themselves, making advances that can lead to the launch of the measures. The point is, once all the efforts have been put together, not only the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, but also the other ministries and the best practices they have in their implementation, to make sure that local initiative groups work fully, fulfil their commitments and not compromise the Programme. Moreover, what is important is that it expands its activity in the next programming period, to cover municipalities that at this time.. 50% of them or less, I think, are not included in the Programme, but there is interest in it to be satisfied. So from now on, there must be even more difficult and more difficult work to do in this direction, but if we think it is a priority for local initiative groups to develop, it seems to me that there should also be concrete measures to stop behind in this programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u164	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Bachvarova! I am confident that the measures taken, especially with the additional administrative capacity involved, will give its results and there will be an acceleration of procedures. The fact is that they are delayed, and not only by this measure. With considerable time, there are also other measures that are also very slow. Under no circumstances will loss of funds be allowed in this overinterest, even in the Programme. The interest in the Approach is really higher. In other Member States, this approach is significantly more spent in the Rural Development Programme and, in this sense, the approach can suffer an even better development given its interest. There is a accumulated practice and experience of its implementation and all this as an improvement in the governance mechanisms can be applied for the next programming period, for the policy of which the debate began. There are such proposals from MPs in this direction, and I think that the municipalities themselves would be more pleased in this direction to develop the Approach.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. And we come to the last question in today's parliamentary control. He is from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev on the approval of the sub-programme for the development of small farms and sub-programme for the development of small farms and sub-programme 8.6 in forestry technologies and in the processing, mobilization and trade of forestry products and by the Rural Development Programme, 2014. Long title, but the time for the development of the issue is again 2 minutes. Mr. Danchev, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I'll try to fit in with the time I've been given. Dear Minister! Mr. Chairman, first of all, to congratulate you on the way in which today's parliamentary control is arranged with the questions to Minister Taneva because they are really thematically related. Therefore, I will only take one line to the question which Mrs. Bachvarova asked before and which answer we heard from Mrs. Taneva. Madam Minister, in fact, my comment is that practically for all announced adoptions of project proposals in the Central Management of the State Fund................................................................................ In this regard, I specifically ask that you inform me on what specific reasons the project proposals are delayed under the Sub-Supreme 4.2................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Please indicate at what stage of the evaluation the projects under the relevant sub-measures are at present. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. President, I appeal to you to appeal to colleagues who are present today so numerously to observe the order of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u168	Yes, it impresses the presence of the parliamentary group of GERB today, but is impressed that the interest in control is not very great because of the talks in pairs, but I hope on the last issue there will be a little more silence in the Chamber. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva. You have three minutes. I'm sure my colleagues will listen very carefully to what you have to say to Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Danchev, and in the previous reply I said that not only local initiative groups are in fun, but they are all and I explained the reasons why I should not repeat them and waste time on specific answers. We have made a timetable to catch up with the delay and ultimately the order of consideration of the submitted project proposals, and this is what state we are in at the moment. In examining the draft proposals under Sub-measure 4.2 of the Rural Development Programme with an evaluation report, the signing of financial assistance contracts is yet to take place, and in the remaining sub-measures of the Rural Programme for which financial aid needs to be complied with with with the State aid granted, an assessment of administrative compliance and eligibility is to be made. The second adoption under Sub-measure 4.2 started on 9 February 2018 and ended on 16 May 2018. Within one month, the Fund of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development carried out a preliminary verification of 593 project proposals by publishing a list of the evaluation of its e-page. Within the 14-day deadline, objections have been received from the candidates for the preliminary assessment carried out and the Managing Authority shall rule on them on 27 August 2018. A list of the final assessment has been published on 10 September 2018. On 18 March the administrative evaluation of the draft proposals shall be completed, publishing a list of proposals which have not been submitted to the stage of technical and financial assessment. Entertainment with more than three months is linked to the interim accreditation procedure carried out to examine projects at the administrative conformity and eligibility assessment stage. Within seven days after that, with the project proposals not submitted to the stage of technical and financial evaluation, complaints shall be received from the applicants who have been examined by a committee appointed by the Executive Director of the Fund. In the meantime, a case relating to the conduct of checks and the signature of control procedures with regard to the application of Regulation 702/2014 on the existence of State aid is established. The case is allowed after May 2019 and the Fund only then receives full accreditation of its control procedures, and the final approval report for the project proposals was issued on 20 September 2019. In this respect, the signing of contracts with 153 project proposals approved for financing, estimated at 75 points, amounting to a total of 95 million. Euros. At present, the Fund shall prepare and send notifications to beneficiaries with information on approved and unapproved expenditure and shall require them to submit documents necessary for the conclusion of a contract. With the submission of the required documents the contract will be concluded, but a decision which will be included already. In addition, the Managing Authority carried out an analysis of the residual unused resources under Sub-measure 4.2 and of the submitted project proposals under the second sub-measure procedure for which there is insufficient funding budget. On the basis of the analysis carried out, the Managing Authority proposed to the Monitoring Committee that the budget under this procedure be increased, with the proposal adopted unanimously by the Committee on 20 June. By order of the Head of the Managing Authority, the budget was increased by 38 million. 320 thousand. EUR, which, in turn, will allow action by the Fund to be taken for the conclusion of contracts under another 83 project proposals by sector, as follows: milk, dairy products, 18; meat and meat products, 21; fruit and vegetables, 37; plant and animal oils, one project; technical and medical crops Part of the project proposals relate to more than one sector. Under the Sub-measure 4.1.2........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 182 thousand. lv. The procedure is not in the case of a limited budget and the project proposals will not be carried out prior assessment according to art. 9c of the Agricultural Support Act. The deadline for carrying out those checks on the project proposals after obtaining accreditation from the competent authorities shall be three months, which shall expire at the end of the year. Under Sub-measure 8.6, an evaluation committee will be appointed to carry out the next stage of assessment of administrative compliance and eligibility and technical and financial assessment for the projects falling within the list of project proposals under art. 9c, para. 6, p. 1 of the Agricultural Aid Act, namely the project proposals for the financing of which a budget is required, which does not exceed by more than 30 percent the budget set out in the application conditions for the relevant procedure, including the draft proposals received the same number of points, which are 97 applications with a total subsidy value of 41 million. Three hundred and eighty thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Since it's the last question, I've decided not to limit you in time for almost six minutes. Here's a line for you, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, indeed, for several days under Sub-measure 4.2 there has been a list of approved projects, but this, as it is said, does not mean that there is no significant delay. Perhaps the delay will also increase because, as you have noted, the beneficiaries have not yet received letters of approval, and not to mention having a signed contract with any of them. However, it is indisputable that there is a significant delay in processing the project and under Sub-measure 4.1.2 and Measure 8.6, which you also mentioned. The strange thing is that projects are slowing down because of the obvious, at least for me, lack of expertise regarding the reporting, processing and accumulation of State aid for the period concerned. Suddenly, after a similar adoption under Measure 4.2 took place two years ago, without raising any question about State aid, it appears that there is doubt on these measures by certain experts about unlawful State aid and certain checks are being carried out. Here it may also be appropriate to share the limited administrative capacity of the Directorate of the Ministry of Education and Education, which is the subject of another question that I have put in writing and whose response I expect to be served. However, it is important to clarify that the 4.1.2 reception has been announced without accredited control and verification procedures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. It is appropriate to recognise that the Ministry, by its actions, violates the Law on the Management of Funds from the ESI Funds. The latter, I believe, cannot be denied, as I have specific examples of how control sheets are accredited by the Ministry post-factum, after the conditions of admission have been published long ago, and the projects have been accepted for approval. In addition to the announced control sheets, there are other control sheets which are subsequently developed by the State Fund of Agriculture and are accredited by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Moreover, experts fill them out, as you yourself mentioned, not only in ISAN, but also in the ISAC system. By the way, more than two years ago from this platform, I personally warned that this thing could happen and that the ISU system was not prepared to meet the needs of the State Fund of Agriculture and the Rural Development Programme. Obviously, there was no one to listen to me and the problems with the approval of the projects are now present. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman, thank you for your patience. By the way, there is also a serious delay in processing the sub-measure 7.2 projects, for which I have also asked you a separate current question. Unfortunately, Mrs. Minister, you have not answered how many projects have been stopped from processing in connection with reports of irregularities received, and you are not specifically responsible for only the number of suspensions for payments. It is clear that it is not pleasant to recognise that there are delayed projects and that their number is significant, but I ask you for a precise and concrete answer, and therefore I return the answer to the work, for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. You mentioned the written questions.. Here are the answers. Here you are, Mrs. Taneva, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Danchev, you yourself mentioned the genesis of the reasons for delays and change in the way of application, which is voted by the National Assembly. Undoubtedly in administrative capacity it is very difficult to find attractive conditions to offer to people who have the appropriate capacity. We have taken all measures within the scope of the possibilities that the system has to make up for the delay, and we will make every effort to do so. There are contracts signed on 7.2. Due to signals, we will complement the issue in the specific number, but we need to know the other side of this topic, especially in election times, there are numerous signals against the opponent, and they may not have any reason. In such a case, there are rules for the suspension of the examination under a Regulation which has been repealed and a new regulation is in place in its place. In this direction, we will propose a legislative initiative so that this right is not abused, knowing that when you send a signal, you will prevent the opponent. We are waiting for the events to pass after Dimitrovden and in a calm and objective environment for debate we will propose the relevant changes. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-09-27.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva, for participating in the parliamentary control. I also thank the colleagues who stayed until the end of the meeting. The next session is on October 2, Wednesday, 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
