ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Hello, Minister. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Before we move on to the agenda, I will introduce you to two messages: Yesterday, on 12 June 2019, received and sent to the MPs a General Draft of the Bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents adopted on the first vote on 6 June 2019. The project was prepared by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Allied and Foreign Armed Forces by its order has authorised the passage through the airspace and the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the non-military nature of aircraft of the Air-space Forces of the Russian Federation in order to supply personnel and military equipment for participation in a joint exercise "Slavyansky Brotherhood 2019" in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 13 to 30 June 2019. In the implementation of the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been informed. The notification was received on 12 June 2019. No 903-09-31 and granted to the Defence Committee. Mr. Nunev, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a procedure on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the time limit for written proposals under the draft general bill of the laws adopted in the first vote for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents to be extended by 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 165 MPs: 163 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're moving to point one for today: HEARING THE MINISTER OF MOVEMENT AND SCIENCE OF BENEFICIARY. 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON NATIONAL Importers: Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. Mrs. Damyanova, would you like to introduce us to the subject of the hearing and make your presentation within five minutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Bulgarian education is a national priority and for the first time we regulated this in the Preschool and School Education Act here in this hall. The reason for today's hearing is the national programs that you, Minister, and your team are implementing in the education sector. Each of us in this House knows that through national programmes, which are a serious financial instrument, different policies are being implemented in the field of education, policies are being formed, models are being set and the environment is changing as requirements for new generations. In other words, kindergartens and schools are given opportunities to provide additional activities to their alumni, starting from the full - time organization of the school day, additional activities on different subjects, accessible environments and so on. This year, the national programme budget is 70 million. lv. One of the new programmes is called "Innovations in action." The others are: "Together in the care of the student and "We succeed together" who build on the program "With the care of each student." We also have new modules in the programs "Providing a modern educational environment" and "Modernization in the system of vocational education." We will hear from Minister Valchev what is the vision of the Ministry for the purposes and tasks of these programmes in 2020. Here I will open a clamp and say, Mr. Minister, that on a proposal from the parents of the children with autism I appeal, and I think that last week we have reached agreement on this issue in the Committee on Education and Science, on a new national programme or on a module to an existing one to finance innovative projects or programs for working with children with special educational needs, to be able to apply to all kindergartens and schools, regardless of their ownership. This is important because we are all indebted to children with special educational needs, we are indebted to their parents, and we are also indebted to the teachers we want to work with them. This is important because according to philosophy and the Preschool and School Education Act, every child has talent and the education system is the one who needs to find it and develop it. This programme is also important because inclusive education may be the most basic part of education reform. The first of the programmes that I mentioned is extremely important. Here I would remind you that the possibility of developing innovative schools has been resolved again here in the hall with the new law. Please do not imagine that when we talk about innovation, it is about free internet in schools, tablets or lack of blackboards. This is about the possibility of enterprising directors and teaching teams to create and develop such a place in a school where they can apply modern teaching methods where students can receive key competences in models for and from the future, develop interdisciplinary relationships that far exceed the limits of individual subjects. Why is innovation important? According to the Index Innovations Report of the European Commission for 2018 Bulgaria is located in the group of modest innovators together with Romania. For example, according to the indicator "Intellectual assets" Bulgaria works at a level close to the average for the European Union, compared to 2010 we have a 40% increase in implementation. The same percentage for Estonia is 43.5%. We show strong indicators above the average level for the European Union, with strong innovators being Austria, Slovenia, Belgium and France. Compared to Croatia and Hungary, Bulgaria is doing much better. We are ahead of Greece, Croatia and Cyprus on an indicator of providing an innovative environment and we are ahead of Romania and Malta in terms of financing and support. Let me remind you that this is compared to 2010 in the European Commission Report for 2018. I am saying this to highlight the importance of the educational environment for the formation of our country's economic performance. The fact is that 33% of children experience stress during the transition between IV and V grade. You'll say that there is one for kindergarten, preschool groups and high school, and that we've probably been through all of us who've been to school. However, this explanation is definitely not enough because the school cannot be stressful. The school cannot reproduce stress and at the same time want it to be attractive. This is why the programs are important together in caring for the student and succeeding together, working and working as of this year. To conclude, the programmes in education are extremely many and diverse. The analyses and reports of these programs are important to see what has been done, what works and what to change. The aim of the programmes is a highly educated young people's education to be in line with their personal development. Therefore, Minister, it is really important for us as MPs to hear not only a report on national programmes, but also an analysis on the basis of which you are planning the next steps for development in the system of preschool and school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Colleagues, I give the Minister of Education the floor to inform us of the issues concerning the hearing. Here you go. Colleagues, I'm gonna have to ask you to take your seats in this room and be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the subject of the hearing. The funds under the national programmes for the development of pre-school and school education are a relatively small proportion of the total amount of funds for the system lv. for this year, which is slightly more than 2% of the total amount. At the same time, we implement a much larger percentage of the policies that are in the sector. This is because these national programmes can be a much more flexible and targeted tool. The remaining funds are provided institutionally, are generally planned on the budgets of municipalities or on the budgets of ministries which finance educational institutions and are provided to the educational institutions themselves. The national programmes shall administer those funds for which it cannot be determined in advance which school, which kindergarten the project will be implemented and it is necessary to do so during the implementation of the school year. National programmes implement activities that would not be carried out with the same volume and for the same purpose if planned on the budgets of educational institutions. Last year, although the planned funds were less, the Ministry of Education financed and ultimately 80 million. lv. were spent on national programmes. This year, these funds will probably also be complemented, but in this case, the focus of today's hearing should be on policies. What is important to say is that national programmes as an instrument are complemented by all the other instruments that we have on politics. If we look at one national programme, we will not always understand the whole policy. It can be part of a policy, complement other instruments, and we are implementing policies with institutional funding, which, as you know, is in three pillars. On the one hand, the means to support the process of preparation and training, on the other hand, the means of personal support, by a third party, the means of assistance and the development of schools where the resources of material base, the means of teachers. We have funds under the Operational Programs, mostly under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" where a large part of the measures are implemented. With national programmes, if we look back in retrospect, we will see that many policies and activities in the system have been piloted. Some of the activities currently financed institutionally have started to be financed by national programmes. And here I will give an example of differentiated pay, with career development, providing snacks to students, financing Sunday schools, all things that we currently do not finance through national programmes, but we have transferred them to budget funding. Mrs. Damyanova started with the National Program "Innovations in Action." It is one of the new programs that is embedded in this year's package. We expect nearly 580 schools and over 4,000 students to join this programme. The aim is to promote dissemination, mutual provocation of the culture of innovation. The aim is for each school to recognize this policy of promoting innovation, promoting creative teacher. If we look at the design of the Programme, it is close to what we have as a design under the Programme. The basis of this design is the understanding that the system should to a much greater extent develop from the energy that schools and kindergartens have from the bottom up. The energy that can spread as politics and as culture if they promote each other. That's the point of this program. Since I was also asked to express a vision for development, in any case this programme and similar design of the programmes should be expanded in the future. This program should be expanded by including more schools. Yes, we have innovative schools under the Preschool and School Education Act, but the aim of politics is to make every school innovative, to have an interest in educational innovation. Educational innovation as an approach, such as searching for specific methods for improving educational results, organization of work, looking for an approach to each child in each classroom. The other program is Motivated teachers, it has a budget of nearly 1 million. $700,000. lv. It is aimed at the need to secure the system with pedagogical specialists. There are three modules on the program. One is about creating a kind of corps of teachers who are best selected and prepared for work in the most difficult schools. The second is for the acquisition of pedagogical qualifications by specialists who have higher education but do not have such pedagogical qualifications. And the third module is about acquiring additional pedagogical qualifications from people who have one. A new program is the IT business teaches. We are trying to interact between educational institutions and IT business. A lot of IT business specialists tend to enter school and this will be implemented under the Programme. In this way, the educational environment of the students will be extended. Respectfully, teachers will be able to go to training at IT companies. Again, as a policy here, the main thing is to expand the opportunities for interaction, to expand the educational environment, something that needs to happen to all other sectors as well. Today's schools, future schools should be more open and more active both with business and with all other institutions and stakeholders. The National Programme is not new. It was there in the previous years. This year to a greater extent, a focus can be seen on creativity, innovation, innovation, leadership in schools, as well as digital technologies. The National Program together in the care of the student was also mentioned in the exhibition by Mrs. Damyanova. It is aimed at ensuring a smooth transition between kindergarten and first grade, and between primary and secondary stages. The Programme will support the team work on planning and conducting joint lessons between primary and secondary teachers, as well as preparation of materials supporting a smoother transition from fourth to fifth grade. Work meetings and visits of primary teachers in kindergarten will also be supported to familiarize themselves with the individual characteristics of the children who are about to take part in the first grade and visiting the teachers from kindergartens in the classes at the beginning of the school year. The National Program is also new. She's got a budget of $1 million. lv. and aims to help implement municipal desegregation policies. Desegregation can't be done on a school level. A school itself can't make desegregation. It can't be done at national level. Each municipality, which has more schools and schools threatened by secondary segregation, must take timely action to conduct a desegregation policy. This is a conversation we're having with the municipalities. These municipalities, which in general have more than three schools, especially in large municipalities, where, unfortunately, and in recent years we can see processes of secondary segregation, when the number of Roma children in one school is increased, we get a very fast withdrawal of the other children. And that is why it is necessary to react promptly. The municipality must therefore be active, however, to take action, together with the relevant regional governance, to provide transport opportunities to other schools, to distribute these students in order to avoid unwanted concentration and secondary segregation. The other program is a development of the preschool education system. It also existed during the previous years, but will have entirely new measures aimed at supporting the smooth transition of the child from a family environment when entering kindergarten, improving the interaction of teachers with representatives of the family community in kindergarten. In the previous years additional training in Bulgarian language was financed. This training will now be funded under a project from the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." The budget of the National Program is increased. The National Program is funded by the Student Olympics and Competitions and is funded by these Olympiads and Competitions. A new financial math competition will be funded. Two of the programmes will provide support for the development or adaptation of training aids for vocational training. The scope of the National Program is broadened to ensure modern educational environment. It finances experimental work on natural sciences and profiled preparation, with the additional module for profiled preparation. The budget of the Cultural Institutions as an educational environment is also increased, which allows for the expansion of the educational environment of the students. Last year only museums were included, this year all cultural institutions, including art galleries, theaters. We extend the Agreement between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture to include school libraries. One million and 600,000. lv. are set for the purchase of specialized appliances, didactic means for therapeutic rehabilitation activities of children in special educational support centres. The centers are a total of 42 in the country - 34 state and 8 municipalities. Such equipment is necessary for their effective operation and for the provision of such support. Under the module "Support of full-time training" the conditions are created for them not to spend the whole day in the traditional classroom, but in a more attractive, renovated and cozy environment in which interest activities are carried out, providing them with modern materials, books, games stimulating their personal development. It gives the opportunity to deploy the potential creative talents of the students with the hours of interest activities. The Programme "Together for each child" provides funds for projects related to exchange of good practices in working with parents on the mechanism for the scope of children and students. The National Programme "Optimization of the internal structure of staff" has the largest budget. It finances relief benefits, especially in the retirement of pedagogical specialists. Last year 49 million were paid for this purpose. lv. $1 million. lv. The budget of the National Programme is increased. It will continue to provide state-of-the-art information communication tools. It will be applied for the purchase of interactive multimedia equipment and innovative hardware for institutions from the preschool and school education system, for the implementation of electronic education resources, electronic platforms. For the first time this year, we will finance all the schools that we want to buy electronic journals. There will be means to ensure the connectivity of all schools and to develop support for the support network. Last year we financed the construction of Wi-Fi networks in all schools. What we can say is that we already have Wi-Fi networks built in all schools. In a small part of schools, these networks do not meet the requirements set out do not have the necessary firewalls. This year, with a small amount of funds, we will finance the upgrade of these Wi-Fi networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u7	Thank you, dear Minister. We begin with the questions of the MPs. The first question will be asked by the people's representative Mrs. Stoyanova from the parliamentary group of GERB. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in your presentation you mentioned that to our familiar national programs that you have implemented so far, modules are expanded and aimed at financing and new activities. Can you tell us what they are?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u10	Thank you. Indeed, in the exhibition I was not able to detail all new programs and modules, all modules that have been expanded.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u11	Now you have time, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u12	Twelve of the 17 programmes continue to operate, some of which implement new modules, and some activities build up and expand. The changes are in the following programs and modules. The National Program "Student Olympiads and Competitions" which I mentioned in the module "Safeing training for talented students for participation in the student Olympiads" are engaged external lecturers to prepare students for participation in all Olympics at the discretion of the principals of the beneficient schools, not only for the Olympics of astronomy and mathematical linguistics, as it is in 2018. The expansion of the activities aims at better preparation and competitiveness in the students' appearances. After providing student lockers for all students from first to fourth grade, the National Program "Provide a modern educational environment" dropped out this module and in its place it is possible to apply for state and municipal schools for special education support with projects to provide funds for the purchase of specialized equipment, equipment, equipment, devices, tools and software products. The module of the museums as an educational environment has been changed module "Cultural institutions as an educational environment." I have already mentioned that what is new with him is that the institutions that are partners are expanding. There is a new activity in the module "Modernization of the system for vocational education" which is developed because of the increased interest of the business in supporting the learning process with modern learning materials. The fact is that we have a problem with providing textbooks and teaching aids for vocational education disciplines and this module is aimed at solving this problem. In the module, the conditions for experimental work on natural sciences, as I said, are implemented two activities, with greater emphasis on schools that will provide profiled training for this. These are primarily nature-mathematical high schools, but also those who choose as the third and fourth profiling subject of natural sciences. These can be other profiled high schools. The "Support of the full-time training of students" as a beneficiary include the centers for special educational support. The National Programme "Training for an IT career" which I neglected to mention is aimed at increasing the number of students qualified in the field of information and programming. It financed the acquisition of professional qualification "Applied programmer" by students who are from other professional directions and aims to expand the base of software specialists. There are two activities in it an opportunity to participate in the training of teachers from the entire field of computer sciences and to organize and carry out validation and verification of professional knowledge, skills and competences for the acquisition of both professional qualification in the profession. In the National Program, the new directions for training of directors and teachers are related to the competence approach and educational results, communication and interaction in education, education and values, creativity, innovation, innovation, motivation of pedagogical specialists, leadership in education, education and digital technologies, educational research and forums, international cooperation in the field of qualification of pedagogical specialists in human and natural sciences. The National Program "Creating an accessible architectural environment and security at school" includes a new activity "Secretary Security" at the school "Secure control" systems for access. The National Program "No free time" expands the scope of the Programme. The program will replace teachers who are on leave for the current year and not only when taking leave for previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u13	Thank you, dear Minister. From the group of BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u14	Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! National programmes were presented before us as an instrument for implementing policies in the field of education. I will not spare my commendable attitude to your care for education. Today it is expressed in filling the parliamentary time in the National Assembly's Programme because, whatever programs are presented, we should not save the truth, but it is: Bulgaria falls from 4th to 22nd in the International Study of Reading Skills of fourth graders in the period 2001 to 2011 and is only among the four countries showing a net decline in results in the decade. Although the results of the Bulgarian students improved in the last survey in 2016, when the country climbed to 14th place, the achievements of the beginning of the century still cannot be achieved. In the programmes, a large part of the accepted and validated curricula for each subject are practically not new. It's not about knowledge and skills anymore, it's about competences. The content is not linked between the different degrees of secondary education. I class programs repeat the content from kindergartens without building on it. Frapirating is the fact that for the V grade they were prepared without being available for the II, III and IV class. There is a lack of inter-frontal links, i.e. a link between the educational content of the subjects to an educational degree. One of the pedagogical requirements was to include educational content in the new curriculum, in line with the age and psychological characteristics of children. That didn't happen. We have witnessed a frank replacement of Bulgarian history by vague members of study programs, neglecting and even ignoring undisputed historical facts at the expense of others, including content in textbooks, imposing foreign values for our nation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. I mark the fact that funds are being allocated for the organisation and conduct of evaluation and approval procedures for projects for cognitive books, textbooks and study kits. The total budget of the Programme is 7 million only for the National Program. Three hundred and eighty thousand. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: how do you evaluate the results of the implementation of funds through national programmes as an instrument for implementing policies in the field of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u15	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u16	In the system of pre-school and school education there is a very long, very large list of measures, activities, policies, programmes that are carried out simultaneously, policy instruments that act simultaneously. It is very difficult to separate the added value of just one tool. As I have told you, national programmes are a relatively small percentage of the total financial resource - slightly above 2%, but at the same time they allow much more targeted policies to be made, much more flexible to provoke school policies and encourage the initiative of schools in one area or another. One part of the measures in the system that are being made do not require financial resources. For example, part of the policies that were launched with the adoption of the Preschool and School Education Act, including the new curricula. Of course, I don't agree with much of what you said. Yes, in terms of results we know very well what the results are, we know very well what their dynamics are, but we also know that they are the product of some previous years. What is the main factor in the education system, what is the main resource and respectively what is the largest cost? These are the teachers. Master has been, well, and will remain the main factor in the education system. Nearly 2 billion are being provided to teachers - 76 million are the funds under national programmes, of which half are for benefits, i.e. teachers again. For the first time this year for nearly 20 years, the average salary of teachers is above the national average. This political and budgetary choice from previous decades to be spared by teachers today is one of the main reasons for low educational results. The only year of the last seven, in which there was no planned funds for a salary increase and there was no salary increase, is 2014. If we want to have a good education, of course, it depends on the curriculum, of course it depends on the teaching methods, the teaching methods also depend on the teachers, depending on the study materials, depending on the textbooks as well, but the textbook will be less and less the only resource, so we are talking about additional resources, we are talking about provoking teachers to be more innovative, we are talking about a competence approach. I can hardly tell you what the overall effect of the programs is. What I can say is that they effectively complement this mix of activities, policies and tools that we have in the system and about each program can be spoken differently. There's a lot of need in the system. The fact is that in recent years, every year we add to the list of activities new. We have restored the funding of the full-time organization -- that is only 170 million a year -- all things that in the 1990s and the first decade of this century were minimized as budgetary expenditure. This year we recovered the funding of interest activities by 25 million from the budget. These are the bigger things that I'm mentioning, but I'm still saying that this whole thing, provided that a very large amount of money is planned to increase the fees of teachers. This is 1 billion 380 million, which will be provided in more than 2021, compared to 2017. You can imagine what the alternative price of 1 billion 380 million is. How many other policies and activities can be implemented with these funds, but what we have said is that teachers are the most important and to the greatest extent we can count on them to improve educational results. The systems with the best educational results are those which have bet on teachers and in which the average salaries of teachers are higher than the national average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u17	Thank you, dear Minister. From the group of the United Patriarchs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, my question is related to the National Program "Protecting modern educational environment" and under the specific module "Protecting the conditions for experimental work on natural sciences." This module is aimed at both general education and profiled preparation. What do you think will affect the work on this module of the Ministry's policy to increase interest, respectively the number of profiled classes in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, it is a fact that today the educational system is more difficult to provoke the interest in teaching children and students. It seems that this feels most strongly in the field of mathematics and natural sciences. There we can see the most tangible decline in educational results. On the other hand, studies show that the material base and the modern teaching methods it provides are the most important. That is, it is in the offices of natural sciences and mathematics to the greatest priority that should be invested in order to improve the conditions, but also provoke interest in learning children, change in teaching methods. We encourage training in interests in the field of mathematics and natural sciences in several ways, not only with this national programme, but with the provisions that were written down for the allocation of funds and the organisation of interest activities. The requirement was set for a minimum of 40% of the funds to be in the field of mathematics, technology and natural sciences, what we abridgedly call STEM. At the stage of implementation is what we saw - 60% of the activities in this area. In the policy of adoption we also formulated a policy for adoption after the 7th grade, a policy for restructuring the acceptance of profiles and professions unrelated to mathematics and natural sciences to those related to mathematics and natural sciences. This is not because the others are not important and are not necessary, but precisely to compensate for the lag and this inability to provide specialists for technical professional directions in vocational education and in engineering-technical, in environmental-mathematics, in the system of higher education, in general all profiles and professions that require a deeper study of mathematics and natural sciences. The national program is not new. It has been active for several years now. I have already had the opportunity to say about it, and also contributes to increasing the classes in STEM directions. What we observe is that more and more profiled high schools choose classes in the field of STEM directions, in particular natural sciences, physics and astronomy, chemistry and environmental protection, biology and health education, thereby creating prerequisites for providing candidate students with professional directions that require a deeper study of mathematics and natural sciences, and especially medical and engineering and technical professional directions. Practical activities in the field of natural sciences and personal development support centres will be financed from this year. Increasing the share of the experiment in compulsory classes will motivate students in choosing these study subjects as profiling in the second high school stage. The second module aims to motivate students who have chosen to study biology and health education, physics and astronomy, chemistry and environmental protection as profiling subjects in the second high school phase, with their own resources and resources under this programme. We are also thinking about the next year, of course, under a favourable budgetary framework, to extend this programme, whether with a module in another programme, financing equipment, and not only equipment, but also an increase in interest activities in these areas in the centers for support for personal development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u21	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mehmed, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Of course, today we will take advantage of this hearing on the subject, but I can say in advance that we can offer other topics that are a problem for education. As a first proposal you can write down, Mr. Minister, politicizing the Bulgarian education; a second topic of the quality of the educational process; a third topic of funding education as a whole, and so on. To the national programmes, I will raise a topic that we have discussed is important enough, taking education as a priority. It's about the program together for each child and the developed mechanism for the scope of the students. You provoked me to rephrase my question and redirect it a little bit to funding. The information we have, which I have already expressed in a Commission meeting, that the teams on the ground are not working. This is also evidenced by the funds allocated under this national programme, they are only 300,000. lv. on both modules. Why so little money, Mr. Minister, and why the first module to support the activities of the teams is only 100,000. lv. For the whole country? In order not to be naked, but to introduce a little specific, my question is: why hasn't any money been paid in Kardzhali District to any teacher in the last two years? Have any requests been submitted by the Head of Regional Affairs? Are there any employees of the Ministry of the Interior involved in these teams? Let's continue in this sense about the lack of funds, given that overall responsibility is not only under Constitution, but also of the whole society, that every child should be covered in the Bulgarian school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmet. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mehmed, since the beginning of 2018 the additional funding for schools and kindergartens with concentration of children from vulnerable groups has entered into force. 26 million will be provided this year. The mechanism is financed mainly by these 26 million "The Programme' rather aims to finance activities related to working with parents, not that all work with parents goes under the Programme, as well as part of the travel expenses. In order for the mechanism to be sustainable, it must not be financed by the programme of permanent, permanent policies must be financed institutionally. Programme funding is Adhok funding, it does not always guarantee sustainability of results. Once again, national programmes are an instrument to finance activities that cannot be planned in advance on the budgets of municipalities. With these 26 million basically three things are financed, additional remuneration of team members, additional specialists employed, mostly mediators, over 200 mediators are employed in the country, and additional remuneration of teachers who can work on the inclusion of children outside the work of the teams. The mechanism in its original form was designed to identify and record those children who are in the educational system. It's a one-time act. Much more difficult activity is the provision of daily attendance. This now requires day-to-day work of the teams. We are at the moment changing the act of the Council of Ministers suppose No 100 from last year, on the basis of which the mechanism operates, and we will do this refocusing of the activity on daily attendance. Not all schools need permanent active teams, not every day where there is a need for permanent active teams, can the entire team, including the Regional Government employee, the police officer, the social worker and the municipal employee, be on the ground. But you have to have a team every day. That is, what we will perceive as a concept is the basis for these teams to be teachers, schools and kindergartens to have an area of scope, in this sense and territorial responsibility, to have a responsibility to the students who act, and to react every day when a student does not go to school. There are schedules regarding the inclusion of employees from other structures. They are not included every day, but for example twice a week according to these schedules are included. We have the political commitment of the management of these institutions, we have a clear signal to the regional structures of each institution. Yes, we are talking about 1,100 teams with 11,000 people - perhaps somewhere somewhere a team has not gathered in the whole group, but when we have received a signal, we have always reacted and this has happened with a reaction through the respective minister or political leadership of the Ministry to the regional structure. I can say that we have good interaction and good commitment of the other institutions, although there are probably gaps in place. The sustainable mechanism, I repeat, suggests every day in problematic schools where we have low attendance, unfortunately, we have many schools where the average attendance is 50% even, the team to work. A very small part of the expenditure is financed under the National Programme. We are considering making them institutional at some point, but here rather the Programme aims to provoke them to interact more intensively with parents. Once again I say to you, many activities that have been financed under national programmes have become institutional. The snacks, the differentiated pay, the career development, is not the right word we are piloting, but rather we are tracking the policy with the national programmes and then we are transferring to institutional funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u25	Thank you, dear Minister. From the parliamentary group of the party, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u26	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, you mentioned the national programs, one of them is the newest "Motivated teachers" with a budget of 1 million. $700,000. lv. Could you give us a little more insight into what this program is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Netsov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u28	Thank you. In the system of preschool and school education, we have very accurate information on how pedagogical specialists are to enter retirement age in each of the following years, respectively what are the needs of the system of providing with pedagogical specialists. The most important task is to secure, especially in the next 10 to 15 years, the system of teachers. The age structure not only of the teaching profession, but also of our workforce is such that in the coming years, much less young people will, at best, enter the labour market by 65% of those who will retire. Not only do we have to have enough teachers, we have to have good and motivated teachers, we have to have good and motivated teachers in all schools and kindergartens, including the smallest, the remotest and the most difficult to do. We must have specialists to ensure support, even in the smallest and remotest settlements. This is what the program is aimed at. It, as I said, contains three activities: one is about creating this kind of body of the best motivated and best trained teachers, with proven professional experience of working in the most problematic schools, those with low educational results, where under equal conditions the most efforts must be made. These are usually the schools in the separate neighborhoods. Today we can say that there is the most difficult, the system is the most difficult to deal with in the separate neighborhoods. We have a large number of schools classified as such with students from vulnerable groups in the villages. The villages in general are doing better. This is where this special task force should be included in the separate neighborhoods. An additional payment of 300 BGN is envisaged. monthly to those teachers who join this module. Our initial data shows that these funds are not enough and we will certainly think about increasing them, although in general these schools are also in good financial condition Obviously, you need an even better motivation. They'll take the rent money, too, of course. Secondly, motivated specialists without pedagogical qualifications to enter the teaching profession. We have disciplines in which we have the greatest expected shortage, a rift between the places we expect to be released, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the number of students who study in the relevant professional fields with the acquisition of pedagogical qualifications. These are objects of mathematics, physics, astronomy, informatics and information technology, foreign languages, we traditionally have such a shortage, but the most disturbing is as if in mathematics and physics. Thousands of mathematics teachers, hundreds of physics teachers who will retire in the coming years, while students who are learning are very few. What we see from the faculty is that there is a much higher tendency to acquire pedagogical qualifications and involve in the teaching profession in these disciplines than people who have graduated from higher education, with a thorough study of mathematics or physics, most often engineering such education, but of course it could be a statistician or something else such people wishing to be financed under this module to acquire pedagogical qualifications. This opportunity has always existed for participation in the teaching profession by acquiring a pedagogical qualification. That's not new. What's new is that it will be funded by the Program. And the third module is for the training of active teachers in a different from their own specialty, to acquire additional professional qualification of mathematics teacher, teacher of physics and astronomy, teacher of information technology, foreign language, teacher of religion, biology and health education, chemistry, environmental protection and resource teacher. These are disciplines from which there is a shortage on the one hand; on the other hand, small schools cannot always make a norm and they must be combined with qualifications. And when we talk about the resource teacher with a view to providing support, there is no school where support is not provided, but in small schools it is most often provided by the regional centre. The resource teacher from the regional center goes for half or one day, and the child needs daily, hourly support and then it is very important to have a trained teacher. At the moment we have a large number of resource teachers who are assigned to schools, but still can't for every child in every school have a resource teacher. Very often in small schools they are one, two or three children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u29	Thank you, dear Minister! Moving on to the second round of questions. From the group of GERB "Welcome, Mrs. Peeva."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u30	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The programs together are national programs where the work with children and students is laid in the transition from family environment to school, to kindergarten, from kindergarten to school and from starting to high school. What are the specific objectives you set with these new programmes, and how do we plan to develop the process of working with children and students to feel satisfied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u31	Thank you, dear Mrs. Peeva. Dear Minister, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u32	Thank you. The aim of the proposed activities under the National Program "Success together" is to ensure the overall development of children through the implementation of effective measures for the smooth transition of the child from family environment to kindergarten and by mastering and improving the interaction of teachers with representatives of the family community in kindergarten. The activities under the Programme are applicable only to children who enter kindergarten for the first time and to their parents. The Programme allows the implementation of the following activities: building a supportive safe multicultural and interactive environment; creating conditions for working with the family community within the kindergarten; developing and implementing effective measures to ensure the smooth transition of the child from family environment to kindergarten; organizing and collecting the sharing of experience within the kindergarten, including with the family community. Pre-school age is one of the most intensive development periods and is related to the conversion of the content of the accumulated initial own experience and impression into differentiated and elementary basic knowledge and skills. The creation of a smooth transition mechanism from family environment to kindergarten means that activity will be demonstrated by the stakeholders and representatives of the kindergarten and representatives of the family community, rather than leaving the child to the influence of time as the only factor that can lead to reduction and overcoming the intensity of negative experiences when entering the kindergarten. From a psychological and pedagogical point of view, it is possible that entering the kindergarten could give rise to an initial internal conflict in the child, namely: trauma from the separation with the mother or the adult. The strength of this conflict has the nature of emotional shock and children with unstable and unstable temperament react to this collapse again through anxiety and aggressive manifestations. Therefore, the key to the development of kindergarten is to implement an effective model of successful adaptation and smooth transition of the child from family environment to kindergarten. The program enables kindergartens to develop or agree with families the most suitable models for successful adaptation. It is important that parents are active in the specific activity during this transition period since the child's first entry into kindergarten, which will also contribute to increasing trust in kindergarten and teachers. The National Program "Together in the care of the student" is designed to provide conditions for tracking the student's personal progress in the educational process and to overcome the problems in his development during crisis periods during the transition from one educational stage to another. The program has two modules: providing conditions for systematic tracking of students' personal achievements and creating an individual portfolio. The first module is aimed at ensuring the possibility of systematic tracking of the students' personal achievements from the class through the creation of such a portfolio containing information about the student's success in all study subjects. It contributes to the implementation of the individual approach to training based on systematic follow-up of students' achievements and taking into account their progress in the preparatory group until the completion of primary education. While most of the budget of the module is intended to buy the necessary materials to create the portfolio, its effect exceeds the objectives set, because in the process of working with the portfolio the student is an active participant who offers and discusses the evaluation criteria. The other module provides conditions for teamwork of teachers in the initial stage for children's teachers and teachers in the secondary school classes. The aim is to facilitate teamwork between teachers, related to the support of students in the transition from kindergarten to school and from the initial stage to the secondary stage of primary education. The differences in the requirements of teachers, although effectively conditioned by the differences in the complex nature of the training in the initial stage and subject-oriented training in the secondary stage, have a negative impact on their development. This is why the Programme stimulates the joint work of teachers aimed at optimized psychological-pedagogical interactions in the classroom through the application of an individual and differentiated learning approach. The effects of the program are sought in personal oriented training, which puts the student's needs at the heart of the successful model for detention of students in the school through adequate psychological support and increased motivation for successful transition in the next educational stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u33	Thank you, Minister Valchev. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Professor Klisarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u34	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! What we have heard so far shows that we all unanimously want quality education, with equal access to education, which is wonderful. We agree that the teacher is the key to this quality education and that is why I want to return to the National Programme of Qualification, which you were talking about. Unfortunately, the National Programme, which is not new, is not yet effective and does not play its role. And why would I say that? The problems in the registry of the programmes under which the qualification is carried out are unclear, there is no precise regulation of how and who performs this qualification of our teacher. The mechanisms for organising these qualification courses, as well as their implementation, allow for corruption practices. And I'll give you one example: 16,000 teachers have been trained in one year. That's 400 days a year, I put it like this, it's 40 days a day. Good thing we can do this! I hope it was effective enough. Many times the teachers themselves say that, see: trainers know less of us and have less pedagogical experience than ourselves. Very often these courses are completed I will say the modern word "teambuilding," in our own words, with a banquet to which we hand out diplomas per kilogram. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is my question in this regard: how will the qualification of teachers, the courses that take place be effective, do not create the opportunity for corrupt practices and lead to the expected results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u35	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. Minister Valchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u36	Thank you. The permanent qualification of teachers is necessary. Teachers, pedagogical specialists are 90 thousand people. We have new moments, new policies, there is a need for such a permanent qualification even if there are no new moments and no new policies. What is funded through the National Program is a very small part of the qualifications provided in the system. You mentioned 16 thousand pedagogical specialists - this is the number of pedagogical specialists trained last year under the Project, funded by the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" and those financed by the National Program are just over 3,000 pedagogical specialists. If we recalculate them over the number of days, we may still say that there are many, but not all of them are trained at the same time in the same place. The aim of the Programme is to cover these topics, which in the context of the decentralised qualification... What I have neglected to mention is that most of the qualification activities are financed at the expense of the budgets of schools and kindergartens. One percent of this year, with the collective employment contract -- 1.2% -- but even if it is 1% -- of nearly 2 billion staff salaries in the system -- that's 20 million. Twenty million a year. The program itself is 700.800,000 in the last years you can make an account. It is 30 times different, that is, the Programme is only thirty of what is financed by school budgets, but with this one thirty the funds are directed precisely to these most important policies and activities. Otherwise, we have a relatively broad market for qualification services, an open market for qualification services. The inclusion of a program in the Register, although it is a form of pre-control, it cannot be effective if a program, a rating service provider meets the conditions, it is included in the Register, we have no right to refuse it. The most effective control we have spoken about in the Commission too, we cannot make a comprehensive, total control of all training activities, there are many. What we can do, however, is consumer control. So maybe from the beginning of the next school year, hopefully earlier, we have made an information system that everyone who participates in qualification services will receive an inquiry form, which is as easy as possible to complete. It can be filled in in the order of 20 seconds: is it satisfied with the training, the trainer, the program, three questions with four or five-step satisfaction scale. This way we'll have a consumer evaluation. You're right a lot of the trainers are probably not interesting enough, the content of the training materials is not enough, good, adequate, not useful. However, this can best be appreciated by the learners themselves. With the National Program, as I said, we are trying to focus on new policies. During the previous years and during this period it has been focused on the new curricula. We are trying to give greater emphasis on innovation, the competence approach, all things that need to change the system. In this regard, what we are having as a conversation, and what we are going to increase as a number of programmes with similar designs in the coming years, is that there will be greater incentives and mutual training between schools, similar to the programme. Something like internal programs............... what I told you, because teachers can learn the most from each other and not from some trainers who are from a company. In this sense, we will stimulate such qualifications, stimulate exchange of practices. This aims not only to learn, but also to provoke each other, to inspire themselves, to expand school policies. We are having this conversation with the social partners, including with regard to the means of qualification that are laid down in school budgets, to stimulate such qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u37	Thank you, Minister Valchev. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u38	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! My question is more in the field of higher education, where we also have personal biases. I think it is also clear to the public that problems in higher education are an extremely large subject for which perhaps a separate, special debate on a high professional level is needed. Some of these problems, I think they find a good solution in the Project for amendments to the Higher Education Act, which you have prepared by your Ministry and which is at the stage of public discussion. I don't want to use the word'reforms', but I still think a lot of changes are required in this positive system. In view of the topic of today's debate, at today's hearing, I would like to ask you the question: are there any new national programmes in the field of higher education you are preparing, or are you planning to prepare and present for realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u39	Thank you. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u40	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mihov! In the Law on pre-school and school education we have reason to provide funds based on national programmes for development of pre-school and school education, however, in the Law on higher education we do not have such reason. Yes, it is also true in this regard with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education, which we have currently proposed for public discussion, and we have also offered this opportunity to finance national programmes for the development of higher education. The fact is that at the moment we cannot stimulate the higher schools to make policies in one area or another, we have limited tools, perhaps only under the Operational Programme. The funding is mainly institutional and it is by formula. This formula, however many elements there are, is not a flexible enough tool. On the other hand, we see that such a need is present. Higher schools have some very good policies, very good initiatives, others we can say that there is no initiative, there is no orientation towards long-term development, and I am talking mainly about state universities. Private universities have a private owner who is responsible for the management of policies aimed at the long-term development of the university. In the case of the state university owner, conditionally speaking, is the society, but this society under the current Law on Higher Education is represented only by the elected academic leadership. Yes, but this academic leadership is not obliged to think about development. Very often we can see examples that policies for the development of higher schools are hostages to the status quo in its various forms and options. The financial instrument is one of the ways we provoke them to implement certain policies, and this is the reason why we offer such an additional point as an opportunity. 91 in the Law on Higher Education. What should these national programmes be? They should be different from those in the school education system not only, of course, as activities, but also as design. Rather, they should encourage state universities to develop their own policies and not so much finance activities in them. We need state higher schools to be more connected. They will be better and more evolving, more recognizable on a national, international, European educational market after 20 years if they make more efforts today to be more connected in European university networks. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, including expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. In the same way, they need to enhance the scientific activity in this regard, I neglected to say that we have established national scientific programmes, they need to invest more in young lecturers. What I have had the opportunity to say is that our observations on payment systems are such that they are generally aimed at validating models based on age, on post, on Peerhood, but not at encouraging young teachers, but given the age structure that we mentioned not only in the education system, but also in all sectors, this will be crucial for their development. In 20 years, higher schools will have strong professional directions where they invest in young teachers today, but we do not see this as sufficient initiative on their part. Similarly, higher schools need to degitate not only administrative processes, they need to degitate training, but more important than degitalizing training is to be innovative in teaching methods, to provoke interest in teaching students. What we see today is generally a low average attendance of seminar classes in higher schools. There are different types of innovations: in the organization of work, but the main one is in teaching methods. They need to be more innovative, that is, what we do in the school education system, to promote educational innovation, must also happen in the higher education system. It's not that it doesn't happen, but it has to happen even more, and our obligation is if we can provoke them with such national programmes, they have to happen even more. We're not gonna do their innovations. What we can do is get them to develop and stimulate such internal policies, but not formally, because if we look at them formally, they have a lot of documents. They have strategies, plans, internal quality management systems, but they don't always lead to effective policies. If the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Higher Education at this point is adopted, our difficult task is to develop effective programs in the system of higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u41	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you are, Mr. Mehmet. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In your original exhibition you emphasized the new National Program "Innovations in Action" and thus won the second question on behalf of the DPS. Don't you think we need a better regulation and a slightly higher requirement when declaring schools innovative? And again, so that I am not naked because you said that there is a common desire for schools to be innovative, but that a teacher, who is a good specialist, has developed innovative methods, has a good creative approach to working with children, does that mean that the whole school should be declared innovative? Just because a school has organized a trip with parents, does that mean this school is innovative? Or, because it sounds good and it is really modern, for once we are up to date, depending on what political affiliation the principal has to make this school innovative? As a matter of fact, I think that if we raise the requirements, it will affect the quality of education. In this sense, my question is: will there be better requirements, will they be increased when declaring schools innovative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Dear Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u44	Thank you. Indeed, the approval of an innovation project leads to the acquisition of an innovative school status. This is under the Preschool and School Education Act, but this innovation can cover two, five or 50% of the school's activities. That doesn't mean the whole school is innovative. However, this regulation is an opportunity for us to stimulate innovation, this regulation is also an opportunity to make exceptions to the general norms that are in the regulatory framework, and this regulation is necessary - whether we are going to call it an innovative school, or a school with an approved innovation project. Yeah, the fact is, some schools must have been motivated by putting on their sign. Some were motivated by the fact that in 2016 informally someone had signaled that there would be additional funding. Yes, but policy is not to encourage self-innovation, policy is to promote the culture of innovation in all schools, all teachers, every hour. Innovation means: every teacher, every hour is innovative when looking for a specific method to one or two children, even to one or two children. The aim of the Programme is not to finance innovation projects, but to encourage the dissemination of this culture, to promote the exchange of practices. However, it will not be the only instrument. We must do it with other instruments, we must do it regional governments with their methodical support when they go to schools and when they provide support to teachers; they must constantly signal that it is important for the whole system, especially for directors to support innovative teachers who are looking for a way to provoke children's interest in learning, to achieve better results. The requirements for innovation projects are not so low. I dare not say that I am familiar with everyone, but with those with whom I am familiar I have seen that we have quite ambitious projects, there are indicators to ensure that this project leads to improvement of results. However, this can not always be an accurate measure, because, as I told you, the results in the educational system are a product of the impact of many factors at the same time. However, there are developed projects, and the group that approves them and which monitors them is only a third or a quarter of only employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who are not in contact with the Minister or the Ministry, so we cannot talk about politicisation. There is no logic in talking about politicisation, moreover, that this instrument, as I told you, does not even carry additional funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. Here you go, Mrs. Axieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u46	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! You are planning a new activity in the module "Modernization in the system of vocational education" which is related to the development and adaptation of educational aids for vocational schools. What are the expected results of this activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u48	Thank you. As I told you, we have a problem providing enough textbooks and teaching aids for all disciplines in the vocational education system. This is, on the one hand, because students who train in every direction, every specialty, are relatively small, making publishing such textbooks ineffective. On the other hand, learning content and learning programs are dynamic. In the last year and a half alone, we've changed nearly five thousand programs. Professional education itself implies such dynamics. As we discussed, the textbook will be less and less the only source of information. We are starting, we have submitted an evaluation Project proposal under the Operational Programme "Science," an education for smart growth, which will finance the creation of a platform with shared educational resources, which in its main part will be developed by teachers, and the Ministry of Education will pay for this. However, given the problem we have with the shortage of current learning aids, this module was launched in modernizing the system in vocational education, which is worth 100 thousand. BGN, and the maximum funding of a project is 20 thousand. lv. The aim is in the Project for the development of such aids to participate teams of higher schools, professional high schools, business representatives in the relevant sector. It will certainly be expanded and may be shaped as a self-program next year. We'll also build a platform to facilitate the formation of such teams. The hardest thing is to form a team of people to prepare the relevant educational tool. Also, where appropriate, translation will also be financed, of course, should not be translated mechanically, but there are some cases where translated teaching aids can be used effectively, thus hoping to overcome this deficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We proceed to the next part of the hearing procedure. We will start with the parliamentary group of GERB "Please, Mrs. Zaharieva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u50	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! For many years the talk continued on the topic of Change in the Bulgarian education system. The new educational structure was discussed in 2002. Later in 2006 here in the National Assembly was adopted the National Program for the Development of School and Preschool Education. Today, however, not only is there talk. Today education is a real national priority of the government, after a real reform with the new law on secondary education and with financial support for all the measures set in it aimed at improving the quality of education of every Bulgarian child, because ultimately providing the right to quality education is a guarantee that every child and every student will have a chance for successful professional realization and quality life. One of the successful financial instruments for the realization of this basic principle in the educational system, as today very often said by this tribune, are actually the national programs of the Ministry of Education and Science. They should continue to develop as complementary measures in implementing policies for equal access to quality education. Each year to implement different or to complement existing ones depending on the current needs and challenges of the system. Today's hearing has shown the current commitment of you, Mr. Minister, and your team to overcome the current challenges, to the strong support of colleagues and parents in fulfilling our most important goal as a society, an educated and competitive future generation. To sum up: 17 national programmes support the process of modernization of Bulgarian education this year, with nearly 76 million being earmarked for their implementation. lv. from the state budget. Four entirely new: "Together in the care of the student, "Motivated teachers " over 1 million. $700,000. BGN, aimed at personnel insurance with pedagogical specialists, the business teaches. lv. to build a connection with IT business in the sector, Six hundred thousand. lv. for the exchange of innovative practices. In other programmes modules are expanded and aimed at financing and new activities. A new programme will help municipalities to implement educational desegregation activities. More funds are provided for student Olympics and competitions. The budget of the National Programme on Information and Communication Technologies has been increased. The scope and budget of the module is increased. The Cultural Institutions as an educational environment. For the special educational support centres 1 million are provided. Six hundred thousand. lv. for the purchase of specialized appliances and means. Children's gardens will also have the opportunity to apply under the Program. The program "Together" provides funds for projects related to exchange of good practices and working with parents on the mechanism for the scope of children and students. The funding continues with the other national programmes from previous years: the National Standardized External Assessment System, the Birth language and culture abroad. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! National programmes reflect the state's additional concern for the important challenges in the system today. And today again confirms responsibility in the commitment of the government and the Ministry of Education and Science, poet in front of the entire educational system, before business, before the whole society, for prioritizing education. Along with the increased teachers' salaries, the increased funds for basic and additional support for each child and student, this year is a fact and the increase of the opportunity for the Bulgarian educational institutions to attract more funds and support for their ideas through national programs. And if for colleagues on the left is wasting parliamentary time talking about education [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , even less shared than this tribune by a Bulgarian teacher, you actually, colleagues, could not participate as you have done in the last three months. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. This is followed by an attitude on behalf of the BSP parliamentary group. Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u52	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! 11 strategies have been adopted in the field of education for the last 10 years. Programmes, plans, standards, initiatives have been developed, as we have heard, 17 national programmes and whatnot. On paper, a great deal of hard work. After all this comes the logical question: what is the result? What is the result of the invested funds, which, if we go back 12 years when the programs started, will probably exceed a billion leva? What is the result of the invested, clearly serious, efforts by the Ministry's expert staff in the development of this impressive number of documents? Because we can speak or listen to very beautiful and even intuitive words and concepts, but still what that expression was like: "By their fruits you will know them. " In fact, national programmes, other than a means of implementing policies, are also a means of allocating a large financial resource. However, I think that the emphasis should not be on telling how many national programmes start and how much money, but on what we achieve with this in the end. Otherwise, some large sums will simply be reassigned, spent some money without result, which is quite familiar not only in the field of education. We have heard your position, Minister, and we have also heard the answers to the questions asked regarding the subject of today's hearing. In order to focus precisely on the results and not to accuse me of politics, I will quote assessments of the results of the implemented policies in education according to the Analysis of the Socio-Economic Development of Bulgaria 2007 - 2017, approved by Council of Ministers Decision No 196 of 11 April this year: Every tenth child is not covered in otherwise compulsory primary education. Even lower is the range in secondary and secondary. The dynamics of the value of the indicator show low efficiency of the measures implemented. There are still alarming signals about the quality of education at all levels. In recent years, attempts have been made to enter modern technology into the learning process, but the experience is too controversial. The electronic textbooks themselves represent scanned copies of paper ones and are free, but the readable versions of the textbooks, where there are interactive games, remain paid and so on. There's a lot of conclusions. Of course, I quote a small part because of the time that is limited, but conclusions that also relate to national programmes. In terms of results that I expected to talk about, I would also like to draw attention to the problem of inclusive education. I see no better conclusion than the one who makes a resource teacher. I quote, says the following: "Unfortunately, in many educational institutions there are no conditions for working with children, whether it be general or additional support. In one of the schools where I work, the room is 1.50 per 2 meters. There's a little table in it, a few chairs, and a crumbling section. The child I work with there is with a troubled motorbike, which automatically implies motor exercises, sitting on the ground and so on, but that can't happen because the floor is terracotta. In other schools, I work in the teacher's room or the library. It's not about didactic materials or equipment. Everything we bring, resource teachers, traveling with our bags. Minister, I believe that the Ministry of Education and Science is still far from analyzing the results of the implementation of national programmes and, accordingly, increasing the effectiveness of the funds, as well as quality control over how these funds are spent. The public reports on the implementation of the programmes with each following year are becoming shorter, fragmented and very correct since 2016 even the result column has been renamed simply as a report. I say: right, because there is no hint of real results. Not how many courses have been conducted, for example, but what follows from the fact that they have been carried out? Not how much money has been used, but how did their absorption contribute to improving the quality of education? Here the explanation that these are problems that have been put together for years does not work. Can you imagine that the one after you could answer us like that? And you, colleagues, can you imagine that asking the questions: what does a national program mean, and asking the minister here to explain to us, we look very light?! You can handle the material, as they say, if it comes to storytelling in a picture and through the website of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u53	The weather, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u54	And since time is up, I'd like to end up like this: how long are we going to keep doing this, Minister? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Attitude from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs. Docent Mihov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u56	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I'm going to start just like the previous one, only not the last 10 years, but the last two years. The last two years in the field of education have been done many things that have not been done in the last 20 years. Today we are debating the issue of national programmes. We must say that they are an aid instrument for policy making. The policy is implemented in the field of education through the laws, through the regulations, through funding. By saying this, we should say at least a few words about these last two years, in which the Ministry of Education and Science was led by this minister and by this government of the United Patriarchs and GERB. For the first time, the minister said it, the average salary in education exceeds the average salary in the country in the last 20 years. This restored the authority of the Bulgarian teacher where he belongs. Secondly, education goes back to its roots, traditions and tasks. For the first time this Ministry offers a program for the educational role of education. Something that liberal ideologists are totally rejecting that education should only pour into knowledge and form competences. Something that didactics, pedagogy, educational sciences have long rejected that there is no educational process without a educational process. For these two years patriotism goes back to the Bulgarian school. Yeah, there's a lot of problems. Yes, there are many things in Bulgarian textbooks, in Bulgarian programs, in Bulgarian schools that need to be changed. That's why I'm gonna end up like I did before, so it's gonna go on for at least the next few years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u57	Thank you. An attitude from the DPS parliamentary group. Mr. Mehmet, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! It is rare to speak in the Chamber of Education. Today we have this opportunity, and I wish the hall was full, and we could all have a more serious attitude, no matter what the subject matter is. When we declare education a priority, it is our responsibility not to be just in words. However, when we mark and only boast about raising teachers' salaries, this is not the answer to all problems and is not the solution. The increase in teachers' salaries does not guarantee quality, Mr. Minister. Our recommendation to you will be to strengthen control. When you increase teachers' salaries, we should also increase their requirement. We should really all try to reach that level of education comparable to the European scale. Are we good for now? I don't think so yet. When we talk about national programs, it's nice to follow up on their implementation. They are really well written as goals and as expected results. There's a lot to consider and appreciate as a state thought put into them. Each national program has its own managers, but my recommendation is.. Control the process, demand to give you reliable information, because they most often report about the work done, but never report to you about the unfinished work, and this process should also require feedback from below to Sofia. Another thing is that education has many specifics and many problems have different branches. We do not have to focus only on funding and constantly boasting about this funding when our primary goal is knowledge that meets the requirements of time. This concludes me and I hope that the topic of education in the Chamber will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Attitude on behalf of the parliamentary group There won't be. That concludes the hearing procedure according to art. 113. Let me thank Minister Valchev for his participation in today's parliamentary control in practice and hearing. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ELECTRICITY OF THE BLACK MORNING. Mr. Vesselinoff, we're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Report for the second vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u61	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u62	According to § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in para. The fifth sentence is amended as follows: The terms of the invitation to tender on a sea beach shall be published no later than 15 days before the deadline for submission of the applications. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 5 in the sentence third, a comma is finally placed and added to as long as this law does not provide otherwise and a fourth sentence is created: "The terms of the auction for renting on the beach shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism and in the cases under para. 6 on the website of the regional administration concerned, at least 30 days before the deadline for submission of requests for participation. 2. In para. 9 a sentence 2 is created: the second sentence shall not be awarded to a concession or rented out and sea beaches bordering protected areas in the first sentence and shall not be granted free access by way of public access, as well as sea beaches, regardless of their location, for which there is no possibility of providing energy supply and supply, as well as for the disposal or storage of waste water.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u63	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u64	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to make an editorial amendment in § 1, item 1. 2, that is:..................................................................................... A second sentence may not be awarded to a concession or rented out and sea beaches bordering protected areas in the first sentence, they shall not be made available free access by means of an open road for public use and for which there is no possibility of providing electricity and water, as well as for removal or storage, or treatment of waste water.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Please leave the text if you have it shaped. [[The National Representative shall submit the text to the President.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u66	Dear Madam President, I ask that we vote separately on this. 1 et c. 2 according to the text of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u67	Thank you. A procedural proposal has been made. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Simeonov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! I'd like to interpret the meaning of al. 5, t. 2, first I will make a small comment on the speech of my colleague Nenkov and his proposal. When a single text is introduced, there is an opportunity to build a road and therefore infrastructure. This text means absolutely nothing. It doesn't mean anything! After 20 years, after completing another concession on the corresponding beach, there may still be this possibility that will not be realized. And the point of the proposal is as follows: to any beach that borders on a protected area there must be a way to access vehicles to the beach in order to secure the normal, safe and life-saving lives of people on this beach. The meaning of this proposal is very serious. We step on the practice of giving beaches to which there is no road, and there is only pedestrian access through some path. In 2017, the case of the beach "Delfin" came to an end, to which the beach had no road built, but was dedicated to a concession with the sole purpose of collecting some money, and perhaps commission I do not know. After this beach was dedicated to a concession, since there was no road, the concession holder cut down a few hundred meters from the asphalted road to Tsarevo to the beach, so that he could secure the appropriate construction of a moving object from which to win so that he could drive his metal umbrella stands so that he could drive the corresponding rescue hoops and so on, things that could hardly be carried by hand. He cut this time, then became a scandal, respectively ecologists and so on, sanctions were imposed, but the need for such a way no one can deny it. In this case, the concession holder applied self-government to be able to exercise the concession on the beach. When we step away from this case, why does every beach have to have road access? It could be a dirt road, it could be gravel, it could be anything, but in case we don't have a secure road connection, in case of an accident, an accident, a drowning, a heart attack, a heart attack, an ambulance can't get to the beach. This is absolutely necessary! If there's some kind of fire at the restaurant that provides food, services, drinks on the beach, the fire department can't go. If we have, God forbid, a case of some public unrest, meaning a fight between two groups of police can't go there either. Sometimes the minutes solve the issue of people's lives or deaths, so there has to be a way to every beach. Not to mention that the most elementary haulage also needs access to the beach, otherwise the beaches are buried with tons of junk, as was the case with different nudist beaches. Another reason, also minor, is that these beaches are taken on concession in order to be able to place some moving facilities and objects from which to earn and hence the profit of the concessionaire is much greater than from the umbrellas. These establishments necessarily generate some waste, these waste is stored in cesspools. I ask: how and how will the trash be exported, will the waste from this activity be exported to the respective feeding site? No way! In other words, when there is no way to the beach, it is doomed to unservice and to buried with junk and at risk of death and damage to human life and so on. These are the arguments to make this proposal. We actually bothered to investigate how many of these beaches are bordering on protected areas and there's no way to get to them? There are ten of them and they are all south of Tsarevo, Mr. Kanev there are these beaches. To the north on the plains of the Dobrudzhan coast, adjacent to the Black Sea, there is access, as there are no problems for the construction of such roads, there are ground roads, but there are no roads in the south. It's about a dozen out of 200 beaches. By the way, statistics show that the unguarded beaches at the moment are somewhere around 85. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We're talking about 10 of them. So I suggest that you support this proposal and impose a mandatory presence of a road that must be built by the State or the municipality, respectively, with the relevant alienation procedures if the State wants to benefit from this concession. That's not in the power of the concessionaire. That's the argument. I urge you to support our proposal. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u69	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Boychev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! I would like to take account of our proposal, which we have made in § 1, item 1. 1 and which concerns the terms and conditions of the invitation to tender on sea beaches to be published no later than 15 days before the deadline for submission of applications. This is in relation to the paragraph adopted at first reading which regulated the terms of the auction for renting on a sea beach to be published within 30 days, which, in our view, gave little subjectivity when publishing the conditions. Our colleagues from the United Patriarchs have an identical proposal, which has an increased deadline and it is at least 30 days before the application is submitted, so we will withdraw our proposal and support the proposal of the United Patriarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u71	You withdraw your proposal, which is not supported by the Commission? Okay, thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Boychev's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. The proposal on the Commission Report has just been withdrawn, which is not supported by the Commission, so I will not put it to the vote... [[Noise and lines.]] First, I will put to the vote Mr. Bojankov's proposal for a separate vote on the two points of § 1. 140 MPs voted: 62, against 4, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Nenkov's proposal, which was read by him. They voted 135 MPs: 82, against 18, abstention 35. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text in the version of the Commission for § 1 with Mr. Nenkov's voting editorial proposal. They voted 139 MPs: 88, against 7, abstention 44. The proposal and paragraph have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u72	Proposal by the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev for the creation of a new § 1a. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1. The Commission does not support the proposal in the rest of it. I'll read the unsupported: "2." In para. 4 t. 2 point (b) is replaced by the following: cocktail bar or coffee bar. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The areas of the active beach area under para. 4 t. 1 for the free deployment of beach accessories by visitors are equivalent as an area and as access to the rear of the beach and to the sea with areas located by the concessionaire or tenant beach accessories, which it provides for the visitors of the sea beach. The zones referred to in the first sentence shall be in an equivalent order and shall be marked on the sea beach and on the signposts placed by the keeper or tenant of the sea beach concerned. 4. In para. 7 the words "the active beach area' shall be added after up to 2 per cent and the word "the area' shall be deleted. 5. In para. 8 words are replaced by the fast-food establishments and after up to 2 percent of the accommodations are added the words the active beach area and the word the area is deleted. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2, p. 3 the word "Passier" is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u73	Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. Let's move on to the vote. We will vote separately in so far as they are of different readings from the Commission, some of them are supported, others are not. We vote the unsupported part of the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The proposal is not supported by the Commission, except for this. One that's backed up. They voted 131 MPs: 33, against 3, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission proposed in the report. They voted 136 MPs: 21, Against 6, abstention 109. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u74	A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. Article 10a is amended as follows: Art. 10a (1) Outside the territory of sea beaches, sand dunes and categorized campsites in land estates or parts thereof owned by the State, municipalities, private natural or legal persons falling into forest areas or in agricultural lands, as well as undeveloped properties included in urbanised territories, without changing their purpose, may designate places for temporary deployment of tents, campers or caravans. (2) The places under para. 1 are not categorized as campsites within the meaning of the Tourism Act. They only allow the placing of objects under art. 153, para. 1, t. 5 of the Forests Act. Architectural elements for the service of recreation and tourism without commercial use, such as: places for recreation, gazebos, shelters, benches, tables, information boards, fountains, wooden fences, grills and others, which do not constitute construction within the meaning of the Forests Act and the Law on construction of the territory. (3) The conditions and procedures for determining the places under para. 1, the rules and regulations for their establishment and use, as well as for their stay shall be laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Minister of Environment and Water and Minister of Tourism. (4) The places under para. 1 shall not fall within the boundaries of protected areas of the categories under art. 5, t. 1, 3, 4 and 6 of the Protected Areas Act. If I may, Mr President, in view of the unambiguous interpretation of the text, I propose a small editorial change before the beginning of the text which approved the Commission and in para. 1 to add: in the zone "A" and in the zone "B" and from then on the text runs the way I read it:... outside the areas of sea beaches..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u75	To the text you read, the beginning of the sentence of para. 1 starts with: Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the clarification that many of our colleague Veselinov's proposals are adequate and in the direction of nature protection, we will support some of them, but we find this proposal a little extreme. Yeah, there should be order, but we can't match campers, caravans, and the same thing with tents. This basically means not limiting, but banning free camping a trend that is going backwards in Europe. A very good example in this direction is Sweden, where free camping, naturally, with appropriate regulations and guarantees for environmental protection is a trend that brings great profit to the state and makes it a very preferred destination. We do the opposite, with which we will push back a stream of tourists perhaps to Greece and other destinations. It seems to me that it is really extreme here and we are not going to support this proposal with our fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u78	Dear Mr. Bojankov, dear colleagues! Before we make this proposal, we have explored European experience. The regime for tents is no different from the regime for other camping options with caravans. More than that. The minimum fines in the European Union for setting up a tent or respectively for parking campers and thus start at EUR 500 and reach EUR 1500. I specify it, of course, you have the right to form any will you wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u79	Thank you. Any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Bojankov, will you use the right to the back? No. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u80	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In relation to the speech of colleague Bozhankov, I am making an editorial amendment: in § 3, art. 10a the word "palettes" to fall out of the sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u81	Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, undoubtedly in recent days the topic has sparked interest in both the National Assembly and beyond. Here I see even representatives of various NGOs and yesterday at a Commission meeting we had the opportunity to listen to their concerns. Undoubtedly, the topic of free camping is important and the task of the Commission of the National Assembly was to find the necessary balance between what people and how they want to spend their free time, whether in a conventional way with traditional hotels and so on, or in a slightly less traditional way, although it is gaining momentum so-called free camping, where people can go and freely set up their tents, campers, caravans and so on. Only we don't have to run away from another problem. The more this type of tourism breeds, the more, of course, it creates problems both for the environment and for the municipalities in terms of what remains after the season after those people who have been in places where they have placed their tents, campers and caravans and the resource that each municipality is talking about the Black Sea, to separate to be able to clean and protect the environment. In this regard, we want to do and I do not want to mislead the society..... even the previous colleague Bozhankov has been a little misled in this direction, almost wanting to ban free camping. No, I want to make it clear here that we don't want to do it. What we have taken as an approach, we have even given a longer term "even our colleague Veselinov" following yesterday's talks will offer a longer period of time for these sanctions, for those who have their tents, campers and caravans in their designated places. We want to determine places where at least there are basic hygiene requirements, if you will, to know who is responsible after the season, who cleans up and, of course, if someone has not fulfilled their commitments, what will be their sanction. And for that, of course, a specific deadline is also provided. I think we should not run away from this debate, even yesterday at a committee I expressed it most strongly to the NGOs themselves to explore and to give their proposals so that certain places can be made in the future, as is in many other countries. Sweden is the least appropriate example given the fact that I personally cannot know and rather I do not know what tourism it is for beaches and free camping. I'll give you an example of Greece, where you can't go anywhere, indefinitely, to put your tent, camper or anything else without carrying that penalty. I think we should address such countries where they really have such a developed business, especially the direction of free camping. So our task and goal in the coming months and the ministries that we will engage in this, including non-governmental organisations, is thus to find the elementary requirements to meet each one. We can't look at tourists separately. Everyone still has not only rights but must also have their duties. I think we shouldn't let people down, that we almost want to ban free camping. On the contrary, I have many friends and acquaintances who spend their time in this way and with a clear mind and with a clear conscience I believe that this is the right approach. A responsibility must be borne and everyone must comply with some of the smallest elementary rules. There are many cases where such free camping parties without being offended, of course, leave behind, and I do not know how to express myself, but certainly does not look much greener and not much greener and much cleaner than before going to the appropriate places. I hope you will support our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u84	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Nenkov, I agree with you that there should be rules on which to act in this case. Just agree that here is a matter of culture above all and of upbringing, not whether you have a tent, a tent, or no tent at all, to leave garbage behind. At the same time, in many developed democracies, like America, let's say you know that in downtown Washington, a person can pitch his tent anywhere and even camp there. We're not talking about campers and caravans here. They definitely destroy nature and shouldn't. But that's not the problem with setting up tents. Whoever chooses to leave trash will always leave it behind again, whether it has a tent or no tent. But to deprive the Bulgarian citizens of the opportunity to go into nature, which is the wealth of Bulgaria. This is a matter of personal culture and hygiene to preserve this wealth, and to build a tent, it seems really not serious. So, please, support my proposal. I think it's reasonable. Again, I am not talking about campers, caravans or other things that really destroy Bulgarian nature after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u85	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Member, I am not a campinger, and we are not actually leading anyone astray, but the camping and non-governmental organizations themselves have sought us to express this concern that, in fact, after these changes, we are not talking about free camping, but about heavily regulated camping. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u87	Thank you. Is there a third line to the statement? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will start from the back, Mr. Bojankov, not only have the NGOs contacted you. I understand their concern, but I most strongly state: no one wants to ban the free time and camping of people who thus spend their weekends. What Mr. Philip Popov also mentioned is only where we forbid such tents to be placed on the dunes. Isn't that what this was all about? Even if you read the Bill in all its form and not just the specific paragraph that we are now discussing for example, you will see that in fact the motive for writing the Bill is precisely the greater protection of these dunes, all types of dunes. What we have assumed can happen on these dunes. Of course, one can go with its beach belongings and place them on the corresponding dunes, but from tent to tent there is a very big difference. After all, someone will still have to be responsible for what happens next. So I don't think, and I can strongly say that no one wants to make people fall into a heavily regulated environment, and the opposite, you have to create some regime, define places where people can in the same way spend their rest, but just have clarity about who is responsible, is there a penalty, if, for example, you then leave your trash. In this way, for example, to help municipalities, because here I read an interview yesterday that between 150 and 200 thousand. lv. The only reason Shabla Municipality spends a year apart is because after what they call free camping, people leave, leave behind some junk and the municipality has to clean it up. At the same time, these people do not pay local taxes and taxes, do not pay a garbage charge, therefore the municipality did not foresee this money in its budgets in its plan-account. So we can't accept the pattern in which everyone can do whatever they want without having any responsibility. Don't scare people! On the contrary, it is no coincidence that I said just now that we are not in a hurry to accept it and that we should start imposing sanctions tomorrow. As long as necessary, the deadline must be extended and such elementary rules must be drawn up with the help of the non-governmental sector. No one is talking about any heavy procedures that need to be followed. But simple rules that, from a purely hygienic point of view, must be followed by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u89	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The text of art. 10a is all positive. In fact, colleagues who have spoken to NGOs have not understood that they also support this text. This creates an opportunity and no penalty is imposed. In fact, by creating these areas, respectively tents, for campers, for caravans, we open up the possibility of legal camping organized. I suppose their design is different and I urge them to withdraw this editorial proposal and to do so in art. 24c, where the sanctum regulations are. Otherwise, the very text of art. 10a is supported by everyone. Including yesterday, there was a rather serious presence of non-governmental organizations that solidarityd with it, saying it created the necessary opportunities and actually opened the door to legal free camping according to nature. So my appeal is, if my colleagues decide to withdraw their offer and do it a little later.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u91	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no requests for other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the editorial proposal of Mr. Iskren Veselinov to add the words of the "A" zone and the "B" zone in art. 10a, para. 1 sentence first, before the first word Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 90 against 6, abstention 33. The motion is accepted. The next amendment proposal is from Mr. Philip Popov in a sentence last in art. 10a, para. 1 word to fall. Please, voting mode. Vote 128 MPs: 37 against 33, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3, which becomes § 2, since § 2 has been dropped, and all the paragraphs will be renumbered in the editorial correction text proposed by Mr. Veselinov, which we have adopted. Please, voting mode. They voted 131 MPs: for 93, against 8, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. In view of the advanced time, the holiday. The sitting will continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u92	We continue with the following texts. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u93	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov: "Paragraph 2 to fall." The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev: In § 2, the text which is proposed by the importer shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be "1." In Art. 13 para. 3 is amended as follows: The placing of moving objects and facilities on the territory of the sea beaches, including the used additional commercial area under art. 10, para. 8 and on the territory of the national resorts is authorised by the main architect of the municipality on the basis of a scheme. The scheme defines the moving objects and facilities, the additional commercial area and the areas under art. 10, para. 6. The scheme shall be drawn up by the municipal administration at the expense of the municipality concerned at the request of the Minister of Tourism, which shall indicate the rented or concession sea beach to which it relates. The design of the scheme shall comply with the requirements of art. Article 5b (b) 57a of the Law on Construction in the Area and of the Ordinance of the Municipal Council under art. 56, para. 2 of the same law, as well as the predictions of the spatial plans for the construction of the objects of the technical infrastructure. The approval of the scheme, as well as its amendments, is carried out by order of the main architect of the municipality. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13, para. The second sentence is created: the approval of the scheme and its amendment are carried out by the Minister of Tourism on the basis of a reasoned opinion by the Chief Architect of the municipality. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The main architect of the municipality concerned shall authorise or refuse to grant the authorisation under para. 3 within 30 days of receipt of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u94	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Simeonov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The point of our proposal is for the chief architect to participate in the process of determining the location of the moving sites on the beach, as at present it is completely isolated. He was granted the right and obligation to sign the permit for placing the site, however, he has virtually no way of interfering with the location of the individual sites on the beach territory, which has already been confirmed by the Minister. This creates factual prerequisites for the service of the interests and needs only of the concessionaire, but not of the public, as the practice so far is as follows: the concessionaire prepares the scheme for the location of the movable objects. He's sending her to the Ministry of Tourism. It approves it and, with the minister's signature, this scheme goes to the chief architect, who must authorise the placing of each individual object. It is more than clear that the Ministry of Tourism does not have the capacity to determine the location of the relevant moving sites so that they are tailored to the infrastructure adjacent to the beach. Very often food sites, for example, for trading are located right at the entrance of the only access, on the only road to the beach, and it is quite natural. It is in the interest of the concessionaire, as the whole airport is thus passing by the relevant dining establishment or commercial establishment. On the other hand, this creates difficulty in possible service of some kind of access, e.g. a firehouse, an ambulance or a group of people, simply making it difficult to move. There are also cases where the deployment of relevant moving sites, especially in major resorts, has been made so that to some extent makes no sense of the existence of the adjoining restaurants, restaurants, restaurants and anything else. All this is within the powers and capacity of only the chief architect, who can determine the locations of the moving objects so that they are not in any conflict with the common infrastructure. Sometimes it is also about the location of some objects near or further according to a treatment plant, to a pumping station for sewerage and so on. These things are only the chief architect who can accommodate them. From this point of view, we are making the proposal: the pre-position of the moving objects, first, to be determined by the Chief Architect, then agreed by the Minister and, accordingly, on the basis of the already approved final scheme, to grant permissions for the placing of the moving objects. In this way, we give the opportunity to the person who has the capacity to assume the responsibility, he accordingly to determine the places of these sites, as their determination must be in line with, in addition to manufacturing infrastructures, and the most elementary even with, the geography itself or the topography of the beach somewhere, there are example ravines, rain sewerage and so on and so forth. This is the work of the chief architect for this he studied, has a diploma and can assume that responsibility. While I do not see what are the specialists from the Ministry of Tourism who can determine the location so as to be of service to the public rather than to the specific concessionaire. These are the motives of our proposal, which is why I urge you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u96	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other comments on the text discussed? No requests. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs to include a new item. 1 to art. 13, para. 3. They voted 106 MPs: 19 against, 87 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov, made in accordance with art. 83, not supported by the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: 16 against 1, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's version of proposals in the Report of § 2, which becomes § 4. They voted 119 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. I pay attention and ask the Commission to introduce an adjustment to numbering. We'll follow the numbering of the report so that there won't be any confusion. I ask for this care after the report is completed.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u97	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a The following 1. A new para is being created. 2: It shall be prohibited to place tents and tents, as well as the passage, parking and stay of vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers on mobile (white) dunes, stationary dunes with grass vegetation (gray dunes) and lightened dunes falling within the limits of the zone OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. The creation of para. 3: The prohibition on the passage, parking and stay of vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers under para. 2 does not apply to cases of emergency rescue activity on the seaside territory. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u98	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal by importer in the version of the Commission for the text of § 3, which becomes § 5. Vote 115 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 22f is amended as Art. 22f (1) Who, in violation of the law, restricts the right of citizens to free and free access to sea beaches or determines fees for this, shall be punished with a fine from 2000 to 4000 BGN. or with a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 leva. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 3000 to 6000 BGN. or a penalty from 6000 to 12 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u100	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal by importer for the version of § 4, which becomes § 6, proposed by the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: for 6, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u101	According to § 5 there is a proposal made by the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 23 is amended as follows: Art. 23. (1) Who, in violation of the law, shall place enclosures limiting free access to the sites under art. 6, para. 4 and 5 is punished with a fine from 3000 to 5000 BGN. or with a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 leva. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 4000 to 8000 BGN. or a penalty from 6000 to 12 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u102	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We are going to vote on the proposal by importer for the version of § 5, which becomes § 7, proposed by the Commission. Vote 115 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 6, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u104	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the importer for paragraphs 6 and 7, which shall become paragraphs 8 and 9, respectively, in the version of the Commission. They voted 110 MPs: 90, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u105	According to § 8 there is a proposal made by the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u106	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal § 8 to be rejected. They voted 111 MPs: for 89, against 2, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u107	A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 24c: Art. 24c. (1) Whoever places a tent, a tent, or parks a camper or a caravan in a foreign property outside the places designated according to the order of art. 10a is punished with a fine from 500 to 1000 BGN if it is not subject to more severe punishment. When the infringement has been repeated, the penalty is a fine from BGN 1500 to BGN 3000. (2) Who shall arrange places for the deployment of tents, campers or caravans in violation of the provisions of art. 10a is punished with a fine from 2000 to 5000 BGN. or with a penalty of 10 000 to 20 000 BGN, if it is not subject to more severe punishment. When the infringement has been repeated, the penalty is a fine from 6000 to 10 000 BGN. or a penalty of 12 000 to 60 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u108	Are there any speeches? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me to make an editorial proposal in para. 1 of the new Article. 24: After the words of a foreign person, we should add a non-resident land property and after the "mot" in an area of the "A" or in an area of the "B" zone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u110	Are there any other speeches or suggestions? I won't. First, we are voting on the proposal for an editorial amendment made by Mr. Veselinov in para. 1 of art. 24c after the word "infrared" to be added to the "non-regulated land" property in the "A" zone or "B" zone. They voted 116 MPs: for 93, against 3, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with the Commission's proposed text and the newly adopted editorial amendment. They voted 111 MPs: 90, against 3, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u112	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the proposal by importer for § 9, which becomes § 11. They voted 111 MPs: for 86, against 2, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u113	According to § 10 there is a proposal made by the National Representative Dimitar Boychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 26 sssssssssssssssssssss: Art. 26. (1) Whoever places a moving object or facility on the territory of an unguarded sea beach, on a sea beach for environmentally friendly tourism or their aquarium, without having the right to do so, shall be punished with a fine from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. or with a penalty of 10 000 to 50 000 leva. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 6000 to 12 000 BGN. or a penalty of 12 000 to 60 000 BGN. Art. 27. (1) Who, in violation of Art. 1. 10, para. 6 does not comply with the requirement to ensure equal access to the sea with regard to the area of the active beach area under art. 10, para. 4 t. 1 for free placement of beach accessories by visitors is punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. or with a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 leva. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 2000 to 6000 BGN. or a financial penalty from 6000 to 12 000 BGN. Art. 28. Who, in violation of art. 10, para. 6 do not indicate the area of the active beach area under art. 10, para. 4 t. 1 for free placement of beach accessories with a sign, is punished with a fine of 500 BGN. up to 1000 leva. or with a penalty of 700 to 1400 BGN. Art. 29. (1) Whoever violates the provision of art. 10, para. 7 or 8 is punished with a fine from 1000 to 5000 BGN. or with a penalty of 2000 to 20 000 leva. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 2000 to 6000 BGN. or a penalty of 4,000 to 40,000 BGN. Art. 30. (1) Who, in violation of the law, places moving objects and facilities on mobile (white) dunes, stationary dunes with grass vegetation (gray dunes) and lightened dunes falling within the zone..A....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... or with a penalty of 3,000 to 10 000 leva. (2) Who, in violation of the law, places a tent, a tent, a shed, a shelter or other type of facility on mobile (white) dunes, stationary dunes with grass vegetation (gray dunes) and lightened dunes falling within the area of the area.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. or with a financial penalty from 1000 to 3000 BGN. (3) Who, in violation of the law, passes or stops a vehicle for a stay or parking on mobile (white) dunes, stationary dunes with grass vegetation (gray dunes) and lightened dunes falling within the zone "A", zone "B" or in urbanised areas of settlements after the boundaries of zone "A", if by other law no more severe punishment is prescribed, shall be punished with a fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN. or with a penalty of 3000 to 5000 BGN. (4) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 3000 to 6000 BGN. or a financial penalty from 5000 to 20 000 BGN. (5) When the infringement under para. 2 and 3 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN. or a financial penalty from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. Art. 31. (1) Who, without having the right to do so, shall have beach accessories which shall give the visitors of the sea beach and/or bind them to the visitors of the sea beach as an addition to the sold goods or service free of charge or against an apparent price of another good or service shall be punished with a fine from 2000 to 6000 BGN. or with a penalty of 4,000 to 20 000 leva. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the penalty is a fine from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. or a penalty of 10 000 to 40,000 BGN. Art. 32. (1) The acts for the identification of infringements under art. 22f, 24, 24a, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, art. 30, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 31 shall be composed of officials appointed by the Minister of Tourism. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 7, para. 6 acts for the identification of infringements under art. 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, art. 30, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 31 shall be composed of officials appointed by the regional governors. (3) The acts for the detection of infringements of art. 10, para. 2, p. 2, para. 3, p. Art. 1 and 2, Art. Art. 12 and Art. 17a, para. 1 out of the cases referred to in art. 30 shall be composed of officials appointed in accordance with Chapter Twenty-third of the Law on the Construction of the Area. (4) The acts for the identification of infringements under art. 23, 23a and 24c are composed of officials from the respective municipal administrations appointed by the mayor of the municipality. (5) In case the Minister of Tourism is called for infringement under art. 23 and 24c and administrative and criminal proceedings have not been initiated in accordance with para. 4 The infringement acts shall be drawn up by officials appointed by the Minister of Tourism or by the regional governors. (6) The acts for the detection of infringements of art. 10, para. 2, p. 4 shall be composed of officials appointed in accordance with Chapter 6 of the Law on Underground Treasures. (7) Acts for the detection of infringements of art. 10, para. 2, p. Art. 5 and art. 11, para. 2, p. 2 shall be composed of officials appointed in accordance with Chapter 12 of the Water Act. (8) Acts for the detection of infringements of art. 10, para. 2, p. Art. 6 and art. 11, para. 2, p. 1 shall be drawn up by officials designated in accordance with Section II of Chapter 6 of the Waste Management Act. (9) The acts for the detection of infringements of art. 10, para. 2, p. Article 7 11, para. 2, p. 3 shall be composed of officials appointed in accordance with Chapter Eight of the Plant Protection Act. (10) The acts for the detection of infringements under art. 31 carried out on an unguarded sea beach and on a sea beach for environmentally friendly tourism shall also be composed of officials appointed by the regional governors. (11) Acts for the identification of infringements under art. 30, para. 3 shall be composed of officials appointed by the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. Art. 33. Criminal decrees shall be issued: 1. by the Minister of Tourism or the officials appointed by him for the violations established in accordance with art. 32, para. 1 and 5; 2. by the regional governors or officials appointed by them for the violations established under art. 32, para. 2, 5 and 10; 3. by the competent authorities designated in accordance with the order of Chapter Twenty-third of the Law on the Construction of the Area.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 32, para. 3; 4. by the mayor of the municipality or the officials appointed by him for the violations established under art. 32, para. 4; 5. by the competent authorities designated in accordance with Chapter 6 of the Underground Capitals Act...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 32, para. 6; 6. by the competent authorities designated in accordance with Chapter 12a of the Water Act for infringements established under art. 32, para. 7); 7. by the competent authorities designated in accordance with Section I of Chapter 6 of the Waste Management Act for infringements established under art. 32, para. 8; 8. by the competent authorities designated in accordance with Chapter Eight of the Plant Protection Act for infringements established under art. 32, para. 9; 9. of the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior or appointed by them officials for the violations established under art. 32, para. 11. Art. 34. For the prevention and cessation of administrative infringements under this law, as well as for the prevention and elimination of harmful effects thereof, the competent authority or officials authorised by it shall apply compulsory administrative measures. Art. 35. (1) For the cessation of administrative infringements established pursuant to art. 32, para. 1 and 5 as well as to prevent and eliminate the harmful effects thereof, the Minister of Tourism or an official authorised by him: 1. issue mandatory prescriptions for the removal of the infringement at the expense of the intruder; 2. issue mandatory prescriptions to the intruder for removal of the beach accessories whose area is violated the percentage ratio under art. 10, para. 4 t. 1; the intruder shall comply with the mandatory prescription referred to in the first sentence on his own account; 3. issue mandatory prescriptions to the intruder for removing the moving objects under art. 10, para. 4 t. 2, whose area exceeds the eligible area of the moving objects and/or the additional commercial area of the area of the sea beach; the intruder fulfils the mandatory prescription by sentence first on his own account; 4. stop the activity of the moving objects located by the intruder under art. 10, para. 4 t. 2, as well as access to them, including by sealing and sealing, to remedy the infringement; 5. remedy the infringement at the expense of the concessionaire or tenant. (2) For the cessation of administrative infringements established pursuant to art. 32, para. 4 as well as to prevent and eliminate the harmful effects of them, the mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him shall issue mandatory prescriptions for the removal of the infringement at the expense of the intruder. (3) The enforcement of the forced administrative measures shall be carried out by a motivated order of the Minister of Tourism, respectively of the mayor of the municipality, or of officials appointed by them. (4) The order for enforcement of forced administrative measures shall be subject to immediate enforcement. (5) The order under para. 3 may be appealed by the persons concerned under the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The appeal of the order under para. 3 does not stop its execution. Art. 36. (1) For the prevention and cessation of administrative infringements established pursuant to art. 32, para. 3 shall apply compulsory administrative measures by type, competent authorities implementing them, and a way of implementing them, as defined by the Law on the Construction of the Area. (2) For the prevention and cessation of administrative infringements established pursuant to art. 32, para. 7 shall apply compulsory administrative measures by type, competent authorities implementing them and a way of implementing them as defined by the Water Act. (3) For the prevention and cessation of administrative infringements established pursuant to art. 32, para. 8, forced administrative measures shall be applied by type, competent authorities implementing them and a way of implementing them as defined by the Waste Management Act. Art. 37. The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any statements on the proposal of the importer and the edit proposed by the importer for § 10 which becomes § 12? I don't see any requests for a statement. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for § 10, which becomes § 12, in the version of the Commission Report. They voted 124 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 34. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u115	According to § 11 there is a proposal from the MPs Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev and Georgi Kolev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u116	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission for § 11, which becomes § 13. They voted 114 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 27. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u117	'Concluding provision'. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the division:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u118	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the subdivision. Voted 118 MPs: 116, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u119	There is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Orders under art. 10a, para. 3 and under art. 21, para. 1, t. 7 shall be issued within 6 months of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u120	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 14 by a text proposed in the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: 100, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u121	There is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Gergana Stefanova, Plamen Hristov and Boryana Georgieva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Annex 3 to § 1, point 12 of the additional provisions after the text 1.1. Waste containing a substance classified as ozone depleting by hazard warning code H420 in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (OB, L 353/1 of 31 December 2008).) hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 and the concentration of this substance is equal to or greater than the peak concentration of 0,1%. [with(H420)>0,1%]. 1.2. Waste containing one or more substances classified as an acute aquatic hazard with a hazard warning code H400 in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 and the concentration of these substances is equal to or higher than the concentration limit of 25%. A limit of 0,1% shall apply to such substances. S (H400) > 25 per cent]. 1.3. Waste containing one or more substances classified as a chronic aquatic hazard of categories 1, 2 or 3 with a hazard code H410, H411 or H412 in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008, the sum of all concentrations of all substances classified as a chronic hazard to the aquatic environment of category 1 (H410) multiplied by 100 and added to the sum of concentrations of all substances classified as a chronic hazard to the aquatic environment of category 2 (H411) multiplied by 10 and added to the sum of concentrations of all substances representing a chronic hazard to the aquatic environment of category 3 (H412) is equal to or higher than the limit concentration of 25%. For substances classified as H410, a limit of 0,1% shall apply and for substances classified as H411 or H412 the limit of 1% shall apply. [100 x ES (H410) + 10 x ES (H411) + ES (H412) > 25 per cent] 1.4. Waste containing one or more substances classified as a chronic aquatic hazard of categories 1, 2, 3 or 4 with a hazard warning code H410, H411, H412 or H413 in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1272/2008 and the sum of concentrations of all substances classified as a chronic hazard to the aquatic environment is equal to or higher than the limit concentration of 25%. For substances classified as H410, a limit of 0,1% shall apply and for substances classified as H411, H412 or H413, the limit of 1% shall apply. [F with H410 + F with H411 + F with H412 + F with H413 >25%] where: E = sum and c = concentrations of substances. 2. The designation HP 14 as a dangerous property shall be based on the criteria set out in Annex VI to Council Directive 67/548/EC of 27 June 1967 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u122	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any statements to the proposed text for § 15? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 15 with a text included in the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 106, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u123	Paragraph 12 "A proposal from the MPs Simeonov, Mitev and Kolev: In § 12, the last entry is added is § 2, point (b) and (c) of the first paragraph. 1 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 10 concerning art. 24c, which shall enter into force within one year of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u124	Thank you. Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u125	Mr. Chairman, allow me to make an editorial proposal relating to the dialogue with the NGOs held in our committee yesterday... instead of the words of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal................................................................................... 10a, para. 3..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u126	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MPs Simeonov, Mitev and Kolev. They voted 108 MPs: 43, against 1, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposed editorial amendment by Mr. Veselinov in proposals in the Commission Report text from the day of the promulgation to read after the entry into force of the Ordinance under art. 10a, para. 3.................................................................................. Did I reproduce it correctly, Mr. Vesselinoff?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u128	We vote on the editorial proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 90, none, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal on the text of the importer in the version proposed in the report, with the newly included editorial amendment. They voted 113 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. The word asked for Minister Angelkova. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for your support and constructive dialogue in connection with the adoption of the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, which is extremely important for the management and management of sea beaches. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. Importers: MP Maria Belova and group of MPs, adopted at the first vote on 5 June 2019. Here you are, dear Mrs. Belova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for persons: Mrs. Lozana Vasileva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Mrs. Mariana Stoycheva, Legal Consult at the State Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u132	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 103 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Please continue, dear Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u133	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Assistance Act No 954-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 31 May 2019, adopted on the first vote on 5 June 2019, draft for a second vote. "Improvement and Supplement to the Agricultural Support Act. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u134	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u135	Proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: A new paragraph shall be set up before § 1: ....................................... ... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9c the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: Within 60 days of their entry, the Head of the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 shall examine the objections under para. 4 and confirm or amend the valuation under para. 3. The order to confirm or amend the assessment shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. 2. In para. 6 in the introductory sentence, the words "On the basis of the preliminary assessment carried out, respectively, of the notification under para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u136	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we are making is about the possibility of appealing the preliminary assessment of the ranking of the projects adopted under the Rural Development Programme. A very serious debate was held in the Commission yesterday, for which I thank you, and I will therefore withdraw this proposal. But I would very much like to have coordination between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests and the State Fund for Agriculture, because the State Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development claims that the ex ante assessment will slow down the whole process of processing the projects and will make it difficult for the applicants. At the same time, the official opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry stresses that an appeal to this act is still possible, but is not recommended. When there are two such radically different opinions in writing and the debates give sufficient arguments in favour of the proposal, it seems right to withdraw the proposal. However, if there is a continuing opposition between the two institutions, I think that no one will benefit from this confrontation, at least those we define by the laws what should happen and how the Rural Development Programme should be managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u138	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. You withdraw the offer, yes, thank you. We're moving on to the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u139	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), The relationship between the Fund and the recipients of loans, State aid, grants, guarantees and subsidies shall be governed by administrative contracts or administrative acts. According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20a the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: the Executive Director: 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Executive Director may delegate by order part of the powers conferred on him by the Management Board to issue administrative contracts and/or to conclude administrative acts under art. 12, para. 7 of the Deputy Executive Directors and of the Directors of the Regional Directorates of the Fund. 3. In para. 4 after the word "legislation" shall be added as well as those delegated on the basis of art. 2d, para. 2 " and the words "in accordance with their territorial competence" shall be deleted. 4. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The Executive Director shall issue acts establishing public government claims under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code and decisions imposing financial corrections under Chapter 5a, Section III of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act. 5. The creation of para. 6: The Executive Director may delegate by order his powers under para. 5 of the Deputy Executive Directors and of the Directors of the Regional Directorates of the Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u140	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the draft version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1 and the second text of the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. Please continue, dear Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for technical editing: "2." Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Executive Director may delegate by order part of the powers conferred on him by the Management Board for the conclusion of administrative contracts and/or the conclusion of administrative acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u142	Okay, read it clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u143	The Executive Director may delegate by order part of the powers conferred on him by the Management Board to conclude administrative contracts and/or to issue administrative acts under art. 12, para. 7 of the Deputy Executive Directors and of the Directors of the Regional Directorates of the Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u144	Colleagues, I will put to the vote the proposal for the editorial amendment to the already voted text, then we will vote on the text again. [[Noise and lines.]] The editorial amendment was just presented to you. I'll put the motion to the vote. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. Editorial amendment accepted. I am re-voting the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 2, with the editorial amendment already voted. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u145	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: In § 3, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments shall be made: 1. The created para. Eight o'clock is out. 2. The created para. 9 becomes para. 8, and in it the words the Executive Director of the State Fund........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 7a of the Law on Regulatory Acts is replaced by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the words of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Irena Dimova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 after the word "Funds', the number "of the State budget' is added and the number "of the State budget' is replaced by "of 250'. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The claims arising on the basis of an administrative contract or administrative act shall be public government claims and shall be collected in accordance with the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. 3. They're creating an al. 6... The obligation to recover grants due to infringement by the aid users and beneficiaries of the measures and sub-measures of rural development programmes, which constitutes a basis for imposing a financial correction under art. 70, para. 1, t. 9 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act is established by issuing a decision imposing a financial correction under art. 73 of the same law. (7) The obligation of beneficiaries and beneficiaries of the measures and sub-measures of rural development programmes other than those referred to in paragraph 7 to be recovered due to non-compliance with eligibility criteria, commitment or other obligation by the aid users and beneficiaries of the measures and sub-measures of the rural development programmes. 6 shall be established by issuing an act establishing a public government claim under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. (8) The appeal of the acts of establishment of public public public claims issued by the Executive Director of the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (9) The Executive Director of the Paying Agency shall approve by order rules for determining the amount of the refundable grant under para. 6 and 7, taking into account the extent, severity, duration and systemicity of the alleged infringement of the applicable law of the European Union, the Bulgarian legislation and the concluded administrative contract. The order and the rules shall be promulgated in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u146	Statements? Professor Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that the version of § 3 is substantially different from that of the importer. My opinion is that the lyrics sound much better and are much clearer than the original version. However, we leave the view that the methodology before and now the rules on the basis of which subsidies for which there are financial corrections will be required or paid should be agreed with the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry states very clearly that the Executive Director of the State Fund is the one who imposes the sanctions and implements the entire procedure for taking them. But it's not about what imposes sanctions. Here we are talking about some rules before the methodology, now rules, to be agreed between the two institutions. This seems to me to be more reasonable given the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests and the State Fund of Agriculture are like docked vessels and should work in unison and be aware of what is happening to us is the proposal and not the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to be the leading institution in terms of sanctions. That is why we believe that the Minister of Agriculture, respectively the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, should also have its participation in coordination with regard to the implementation of financial corrections. To conclude, I would like to share that the debates on the offer of the Law remain within me the impression that there are quite serious differences between the Agricultural Aid Act and the European Fund Management Act. Still the lack of cooperation between the two laws creates problems not only from the point of view of law enforcement, but also of the implementing authorities. The efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests are indeed to remove these cases, because otherwise we will continue for any case that has been received as a result of a beneficiary contesting one or another act of the State Fund of Agriculture, we will have to amend the Law. This is a principled set-up which, in my opinion, is important to deal with it thoroughly and at a serious legal level so that the problems that currently exist can be resolved. However, you know that nearly 100,000 farmers apply for direct payments for each of the measures under the Rural Development Programme, which are between six and seven and eight thousand. They're also applying! They can challenge, have their rights, and if there is no clarity in the Law, it is precisely such a requirement that we change the Law because of one or another case arising in justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u148	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the MP Professor Bachvarova and a group of MPs. They voted 107 MPs: 21, against 43, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 3 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u149	Proposal by the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u150	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 4 with a text according to the Commission's proposal. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u151	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u152	Are there any speeches? No. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u153	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. The provisions of § 2, t. 4 and 5 concerning Art. 20a, para. 5 and para. 6 shall also apply to decisions imposing financial corrections and acts establishing public government claims issued until the entry into force of this law. According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-13.u154	Statements? I can't see. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 4, which becomes § 5, and the second is the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 6. Vote 101 MPs: 94 against 4, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted. Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 14 June 2019: 1. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer two questions from the MPs Anton Kutev and Stoyan Mirchev; and Mikhail Hristov. 2. Justice Minister Danail Kirilov will answer a question from MP Krum Zarkov. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Tanya Petrova; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Stoyan Mirchev and Anton Kutev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question written by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question by the National Representative Diana Savateva; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to fourteen questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov [[two questions]] ; Georgi Gyokov [[Eleven questions]] ; and Stefan Burgeev [[one question]] . Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the MP Stefan Burgeev to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov is postponed. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva and the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova; the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the lack of the country. Next regular plenary session "14 June 2019, 9:00 a.m., according to the adopted work programme. We're adjourned.
