ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we continue with the first item for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. With the Energy Commission report, who's gonna introduce us? Mr. Nikolov, please come in for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 954-01-43, submitted by Valentin Aleksiev Nikolov and a group of MPs on 19 June 2019. At its regular meeting held on 21 June 2019, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the bill referred to above. The meeting was attended by Mr. Klaus Dieter Borhardt from the Ministry of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission Mr. Ivanov from the Bulgarian Energy Holding Mr. Petyo Ivanov from the Executive Director from Mr. Vladimir Malinov Executive Director from Mr. Bulgargaz EAD from Mr. Nikolay Pavlov Executive Director as well as representatives of NGOs and associations involved in the changes made in the Law. On the part of the importers, the reasons were presented by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. The proposed changes ensure the fulfilment of the obligations under Commission Regulation (EU) 312/2014 of 26 March 2014 establishing the network code for balancing transmission networks. The amendments and additions aim at creating conditions for effective liberalisation of the natural gas market and establishing a liquid market, including through a specific package of measures to address low current liquidity. In this way, a competitive environment will be created for mining enterprises, traders and consumers of natural gas by concluding transactions on an organised trading venue with clear and uniform rules and appropriate sustainable price signals to achieve a fair market price based on demand and supply. The amendments and additions create new opportunities for traders to realise additional quantities in their capacity as market makers and liquidity providers as a result of ongoing projects for the supply of natural gas from new sources. The also referred to as the "Gas release' programme by which the public supplier releases certain amounts of gas corresponding to a certain percentage of consumption for each year in question in order to achieve a more competitive natural gas market. The proposed norms allow smooth and gradual transition from market at regulated prices to an organised market for natural gas at freely negotiated prices. In the course of the discussion statements in support of the bill spoke Minister Temenuzhka Petkova, as well as the executive directors of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Conceptual changes also welcomed representatives of employers' organisations, as well as private companies in the gas sector, which stressed the need to further refine the texts. National Representative Valentin Nikolov assured the participants in the meeting that the Energy Commission will organise a broad public discussion, as well as working groups to participate in, with a view to establishing a good mechanism for the operation of the organised natural gas stock market. A guest of the discussion was Deputy Director General of the Directorate-General of the European Commission Klaus Dieter Borhardt. According to him, our country's development as a gas distribution centre is of national and regional importance. The European Commission is giving its full support to the proposed bill, as this is one of the initial steps for the realization of a gas distribution centre in Bulgaria and the diversification of natural gas sources. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 12 votes for abstentions, 3 votes abstentions and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a draft amendment and supplement to the Energy Act, No 954-01-43, submitted by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs on 19 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Is there gonna be motivations? You're welcome to argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, you remember that through a Report from the Council of Ministers the report has been prepared by Minister Petkova, we have been given opportunities to change Bulgaria's Energy Strategy by 2020, in order precisely to change the new circumstances that are being imposed geopolitically, geostrategicly and, of course, nationally, so that we can be adequate to the relevant political situation, the relevant gas trade and that Bulgaria can become one of the unsurpassed factors in the region so that we do not become from a transiting country alone. It is with these amendments in the Strategy that we have laid down several principles and several important things. One of them is the construction of a pipe that connects from the Bulgarian-Turkish border as a point to the Bulgarian-Serb border as a point so that we can provide capacities for the so-called Turkish stream, which on our part we already call it the Balkan Stream. Another part of what we bet as a strategy was to participate by up to 20% in the LNG terminal in Alexandroupolis and thus "Liquefied gas," to be able to diversify the sources and to have sufficient liquidity for the future gas hub "Balkan." The third point is to be able to implement a gas hub, that is, to have the platform that we can freely negotiate with different products in the form of gas trade and be able to regulate them. After carrying out the relevant auctions, you know that all assets from the South Stream were also purchased by Bulgartransgaz and respectively we realized through tenders and the signing of a contract is about to be signed so that this pipe can be built along the route of South Stream. The second thing is, of course, the negotiations continue in connection with the LNG terminal in Alexandroupolis and we expect to be able to participate there through the realization of property in the LNG terminal in Alexandroupolis. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Greece's Prime Minister Tsipras have made a first hole in the.I.C.G.B. All of this: the interconnector connection that is with Romania, the one that is coming with Serbia, the reverse connection with Greece in the existing electricity pipeline and this tube in question, which we are talking about with Turkey, has also given us the opportunity to think about the implementation of this platform, on which there are free amounts of gas. The auction, which took place in Bulgargas for the implementation of additional and missing quantities of gas that were needed by the country, showed that we can now have diversification of the sources - the first physical flows that flowed through the tube with Greece This inevitably creates the necessary need, enshrined in the Strategy, to make the legal framework and the relevant regulations on which to trade gas in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is one of the few countries that does not have such legislation and organised gas market. That's why we don't have enough experience. We have used the experience, of course, of Bulgartransgaz, who interacts with Transgaz's analogue in Austria, with the organized market - one of the largest hubs in Europe - Baumgarten - we have experience with the Electric Exchange in Bulgaria - steps we have taken over the years. Of course, we learned from them in connection with the drafting of this bill. I thank my colleagues from Bulgartransgaz, who respectively gave the framework on which we worked and recognised as a bill with my fellow MPs who signed under the bill. I believe that this bill is important and strategic for Bulgaria as a country and country so that we can develop this free trade of gas. We know that 80% of the infrastructure in the Balkans is concentrated in Bulgaria together with the compressor stations that have resumed. In fact, we want to do so that Bulgaria is an important factor in the region in the transport and transit of gas from South to Northern Europe, from the southern part of the world to North and Central Europe, of course, and from Northern Europe to the south. With this bill we license a company that we expect to be 100% daughter of Bulgartransgaz and with the licensing it to make the rules on which to trade the different products and suppliers, mining companies, traders, market makers on this platform. There will also be the balancing of the market. This platform will also correspond with Bulgartransgaz's capacity-giving platform so that it is mobile and logistical enough to be able to purchase specific amounts of gas at a virtual point in Bulgaria to any other point to purchase capacities from Bulgartransgaz. With this bill, we are implementing a program by which the public supplier with certain quantities in the years can provide liquidity on this exchange. We also owe the mining companies. God forbid, in Bulgaria, in offshore areas that are given a concession by the Ministry of Energy, to have reason and joy to have such quantities that are economically worthwhile to obtain and some of these quantities to be realised on this exchange, i.e. to provide even greater liquidity, and this does not interfere with their programmes and their investment intentions for return on investments that have been made. We've been more or less in the original bill with the remarks that these companies have made. Many of the traders' organisations have made their objections to the licensing of the participants on this exchange. We know that all countries that are bordering Bulgaria are indeed licensed, but we ultimately, provided that we have not implemented such a gas exchange and it is not yet a fact, to put them in a heavy licensing regime, it is really not a good proposal, so in the original version we are focused on them being on... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u6	They should be on notification, registration. This is generally said in the Bill that we have proposed. You can see that this is one of the bills that is supported at such a level by the Deputy Director General of the Department of the European Commission Mr Borhardt. A representative of the European Commission was sent to the round table again. Statements were made by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, together with European Commission President Juncker, which shows that the European Commission is empathetic with the policies that we have accordingly introduced. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u7	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u8	With this bill they expect Bulgaria to play an important factor in the region and implement the free market platform so that we can be with the focus of the European Commission as future gas markets and gas routes that will pass through Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u10	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! In recent weeks and months, we have witnessed a moving protest in the country by healthcare professionals known as nurses. Today the nurses are protesting at the hospital in Troyan. The reason for our declaration is a statement by the Minister of Health yesterday. In order to solve the problem with healthcare professionals who have two main demands, and this is an increase in the pay and removal of the commercial status of hospitals, the Minister of Health has meetings in the country, where he is familiar with the state of each region of Bulgaria. It's a little surprising because he's been a minister for a long time now. Yesterday the meeting was about Northwestern Bulgaria "Vidin region, Montana, Vratsa and St. Anna is in Sofia. At this meeting, the minister made a proposal for a brilliant solution to the problem of nurses' pay. He says hospitals can't fulfill their duties as a volume of medical care. They couldn't reach the limits they were set and then said that those wards that couldn't get enough financial pay and the nurses would get their salaries that they wanted would be closed. This concerns the closure of hospital wards in district hospitals, I repeat, in Vidin, Montana, Vratsa. With this proposal for a solution, the minister violates at least two things: firstly, the constitutional right of every Bulgarian citizen to receive timely medical care, because if the neurological ward in Vadin is not with good financial results and close it, the patients from Bregovo should receive medical care in Vratsa, in the neurological ward in Vratsa district hospital. That's over 150 kilometers in plain sight of the state of the roads. Secondly, district hospitals in Bulgaria are the backbone of Bulgarian healthcare. They're a system. They're multi-profile. Well, you can't close down one ward because you're disrupting the normal rhythm of medical care, counseling in the other wards. As a result of this statement by the Minister of yesterday, we are bombarded with numerous calls from troubled citizens from the regions mainly of Vidin and Vratsa, which is why, Madam President, we propose to invite the Minister of Health and he will present to us what he had in mind with this proposal for a decision and how he will provide medical assistance to the Bulgarian citizens from Northwestern Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u11	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. I'll contact the Minister of Health and let you know. We continue with the debates on the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u12	Good afternoon! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this bill, we are essentially fulfilling some of our commitments to the relevant European legislation and importers propose to switch to demonopolising the gas market in Bulgaria. The objective is to gradually switch from a regulated market to a market, to trade in natural gas with freely determined prices. This necessary liberalisation of the gas market will give this signal, which our country must send to the European Commission, to the European institutions for appropriate support for the implementation of the major energy projects in the country. All this is well, however, we have certain concerns that arose during the discussion of the proposed changes to the Energy Act and it seems to me that the debate today will not be complete if they are not said by this tribune. Our concerns are in several main directions. Firstly, let us not repeat this negative experience in the realization of the market and the creation of the electricity market. Secondly, very carefully and clearly specify the role and place of the public supplier "Bulgargaz" from the point of view, on the one hand, of storing his public commitment as a supplier and, on the other hand, the role envisaged in the law from here on and as a liquidity provider. It will also be very important for us to clarify clearly the role of Bulgargaz, while continuing the long-term gas supply contracts, which he is importing from the Bulgarian side. A very serious role and place of the energy regulator is envisaged, and this should be accompanied by the relevant actions to expand the regulator's capacity. Here again we can refer to the functions it is performing at the moment for the energy exchange and see that we have a number of problems of this nature. All this opens an even bigger question, and this is the big question about our country's place and role in the transmission and distribution map in Europe, in particular in the region. The good intentions in this bill, Madam Minister, will not be realised if we do not improve if we do not mobilize the entire resource of both the government and all the institutions, if you want, and the country, for the implementation of all infrastructure connectivity projects. I'm talking about gas connectivity right now, as well as diversification of supply sources. I dare say that the government is not currently implementing these projects at the right pace. You have also received support from us in this Chamber in the adoption of the changes in the Energy Strategy for Development of Bulgaria precisely in the part about the big gas infrastructure projects, but to date I think there is some delay in their implementation. Without the timely and rapid realization of these interconnections with all our neighbours, the interconnector with Greece, it is true that we already have gas from there, but the interconnector, you know, is very important for the realization of the Azeri gas. We essentially have a connection with Romania, but it can't really be used. And so it is with the reverse ties with both Turkey and Serbia. In the next year, very important things are to happen in this sector. We need to start the big project for modernization and expansion of the gas infrastructure of Bulgaria. This will all happen literally in the coming months. We have to give the real start to this and we have no right to any mistake at the moment here! We need to expand the capacities and modernise the country's gas storage facilities if we really want to be this real gas distributor for the region. For all of this, you will receive support, but this means full mobilisation of efforts so that Bulgaria can preserve, maintain its role as a gas distribution centre in the region and in Europe and in the conditions of increasing and growing competition of all neighbours. At the moment we will abstain from support at first reading, we will make the relevant proposals for changes between first and second readings in the working group, but I would like to tell you that we will follow very closely each of these actions, not a small part of which have been assigned to you by a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament and which will determine both the perspective and the role of Bulgaria on the gas map of Europe. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u14	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! I liked the speech of my colleague Nikolov. Definitely from vision, vision, and horizon need Bulgarian energy, only when we adopt laws, colleagues, we must evaluate them as good or bad in the context of what situation the particular social, economic, market, social situation is in and whether this instrument is working. As said by colleague Boychev, we will strongly support all measures, both as a vision and as concrete actions, so that Bulgaria can be with really one of its competitive advantages the transit, delivery, storage and distribution of natural gas. However, I would like to share with you precisely this objective criterion in what situation we are currently in and how we assess this situation. Note that, unfortunately, Bulgaria is back in line. We are probably the last country, I can be corrected, which, with regard to the Third Energy Package and with regard to gas, applies this liberalisation. In addition, you know that Bulgaria also suffered from the failure to implement these measures. I say this with contempt not to my colleague Nikolov, of course, but to all the rulers from the moment this package is a fact. Keep in mind that a very long time ago, maybe ten to fifteen years ago, I was surprised that less than 3% was the spread of gas infrastructure among the household and the population. How astonishing it was when I found out that this percentage, fellow Members, hadn't moved! Director Burhardt of the European Commission said: "People, believe that the release of this market and the supply of gas and the consumption of gas can generate for your industry and economy many positive effects! " We have not yet believed in this possibility, and that is why we have 2.5.. 2.7% access of domestic consumers to gas infrastructure, which means that no priority will be given to the government to expand not only transit, but also to increase consumption among the population and the economy. Keep in mind that there is a serious danger, and I will refer to why I see it in the Law at first reading. There is a serious danger that the wonderful idea of the gas hub will remain only one alibi so that we can transit gas freely and seamlessly under European rules, but not in order to truly develop this competitive opportunity, so we must not afford such action. I'm moving on to the specifics because it's a very long conversation, and I'm a bit deviant from the point of view, but these are very important questions. We had a good chance. According to my assessment, about 80% of what has been made as a valid proposal is the word of the English language, which is translated by the model of the Law in the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange. However, with all due respect, you know the shortest wording about who is the stupidest person who does things the same way every time and expects a different result. We are at the very beginning of a long road to liberalisation in the gas sector through legislation, as the legislation applied in the Electricity Exchange has already produced results that make us change the situation. There are traders' bankruptcys, there are doubts about manipulated prices in the sector. There are market absurdities that this model in the Electricity Exchange allows. We cannot let this go and we cannot fail to improve the trading system. Last but not least, I have to say, of course, these are comments both from part of the Bulgarian Gas Association and other branch structures, that no questions about clearing and the secondary gas market are solved, which, colleagues, as my colleague Boychev said, when we release and liberalise the market, yet we liberalise a service of high public value. There is no safeguard mechanism whereby, in the specific gas and gas trade, if someone suffers financial corrections, penalties or losses, it does not affect domestic and industrial consumers. With one sentence, I can tell you the following: if we do not make the correct changes and do not unite, colleagues, there is a really working mechanism around this, because besides liberalization, there must also be an element of regulation for each public service, these two components must create a free market scheme that is fair to citizens, we can wake up in 24 hours, not long after that, with ridiculous gas prices for both industry and domestic consumers. This is our great responsibility, and this is not about any political issues, but about very smart, sensible and wise decisions. Last but not least, actually at the last, because one more thing I want to tell you is the fact that I do not know why and by what logic does the State Committee on Stock Exchanges and Trades, which is the official body for such types of markets, is not the regulatory authority in relation to the Independent Gas Exchange, but is the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory? With regard to how Bulgargas and its function supposed 15.. 20. 25. 30% to release its capacities for free market, perhaps the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission should rule, but to make the KEWRC license stock, stock trade, this I think we should consider once again. These are the main reasons why we at first reading will most likely abstain from supporting this legislation for nothing else, but to raise the flag, or rather, to give you a hand on all the sensible things that we can do at second reading.. to do them, but not to stand again on one side and on the other side of the question. Now, a small step has been taken with the right foot, because we are talking, of course, about liberalisation, let us also take a small step with the other leg, so that we can move a little more sustainablely. I am making this statement with the following message: if we, and in the opinion of Mr Borhardt of the European Commission, do not believe or rationally appreciate the opportunities that would give the liberalisation of the gas market, we will still do nothing with you, and we will remain with a sad glory in history. I'm giving you an example, and that's where I end up. Since May 2018, the European Commission said this also at the meeting with Mrs Petkova, in the case of antitrust issues there are solutions regarding Gazprom, which Bulgaria also falls into. It obliges Gazprom to provide, at the request of the State, a reduction in the prices of its supplies to a level of market European prices, but if the State so requests. Excuse me very much, but we have been studying these issues since May 2018. Bulgaria has not referred to this decision by the European Commission. My guess is that Bulgargas continues to conclude partial supply contracts, for example, on NG. That's a question we won't be dealing with right now. I give this example for the following reason: if we do not believe that we want to make a real market and a free market, it will be very difficult. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Colleagues, you have the floor for a line. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! Undoubtedly, the subject is extremely important and essential. From the words of the previous colleagues in the opposition, excluding the moment that, after all, Parliament requires that there be ruling and opposition, what you said in your speeches is almost 100% overlapped with what we have also spoken in informal talks. Naturally, you are saying that you will not support the bill in the first vote, but I rather attach it to the fact that the label still requires that there be both government and opposition. We can't all be one-sided at a time like this. Important topics have been addressed, and I think we should pay very serious attention to some things. First of all, I don't think the bill's that late. He's well-written enough. It is not as brave perhaps as it was in connection with the introduction of the free electricity market for a number of reasons. At least because there were many sources of electricity and very few sources at this stage of gas. It was logical, of course, when we were preparing and thinking about the Bill and the Gas release, the programme that was already mentioned by Mr. Nikolov, was at a very small pace in the years ahead, so that we did not actually get a shock on the gas market. This does not mean that we should not go in this direction. The fact that the Electric Energy Exchange has its shortcomings and curvatures that must stand up, which is undoubtedly, and it is no coincidence that even with you, colleagues, in the bills and changes that we have made in the Energy Act, and in other laws, we have always sought balance. We are trying to make sure that in this electricity exchange there is no doubt, first of all, about manipulated prices and, secondly, to be as liquid as possible. With the latest changes we've made, we've released more power to sell on this market. Naturally, most likely in the future there will be such questions that will come out. You can see that we are constantly in contact with employers' organizations, with large consumers of electricity. In my opinion, here the gas exchange and the creation of this market will most likely have their difficulties in the future. So I say again, quite carefully approach what will happen eventually on this gas exchange. The situation requires that we don't waste any more time. Most likely, the problems that would arise, our task is to seek their solution. But because it was also said about the delayed projects, if we go back ten years ago in time, you will see that if Bulgaria was then entirely dependent on one supplier, then from the point of view of the security of the gas delivered Bulgaria is currently at a very different level. Firstly, because there is a possibility of a reverse connection with Greece, on the existing pipeline we can supply gas. For the first time, Bulgaria delivered gas from the NG terminal in Greece. We also have opportunities to make deliveries from Romania. Bulgaria has launched with great effort the possibility of exploration of mining in the aquatory of the Black Sea, so it has come an awkward path for these ten years. Yeah, maybe more. Yes, I wish, too, that everyone should have much more opportunity to supply gas, but ultimately it is not always up to us alone. It also depends on the geopolitical situation in which the world, the region, is located, and we cannot escape it. We are now at a very important stage where Bulgaria has a signed contract for another billion through the Southern Gas Corridor, which can deliver through the Bulgarian-Greek connection, which was launched for its construction. I believe that Bulgaria in the next few years will indeed be extremely independent in terms of security of supply, and in this regard we are obliged to take the step towards creating an opportunity for gas trading. It doesn't matter what it will be called: Balkan gas pipeline, whether it will be a hub, whether it will be a gas distribution centre, will it be, after all, the idea is that in the coming years we will have much more opportunities to supply gas, which will enable this trade on a market principle to give the fairest and best price for consumers and for large consumers. And the last topic that I would like to mention, we have even talked about this at the Energy Committee meeting. Once we have passed through this important moment the legalization of the establishment of the gas exchange, we, as MPs in the Energy Commission, must ask the question and see why all the licence holders so far who have taken licenses to develop the gas distribution network in the country have not fulfilled their commitments? What was their problem if there was one? I believe that 3.4%, as gasified as the population is literally, are extremely few. I believe that the more supply opportunities from different sources we will have and will be able to trade on our gas distribution market, the more it will make sense for these gas distribution companies that would develop and invest in the creation of a new network would also come out of their account to do so. This is a second topic that needs to be addressed to see how to expand the scope and to increase those 3 times 4% using gas in the coming years. I hope we can find the best way to do this together. If legislation or legislation needs to be amended further, it should be started in this regard as soon as possible. I hope you'll support the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. Docent Yordanov, just to let you know. I contacted Minister Ananiev, but he has a commitment at the moment, and then he travels to the province, so maybe you can renew your request next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u18	Thank you, Madam President. But before I continue on the subject, our request for Minister Ananiev is extremely important and it is key for someone from the Ministry to come and explain how the problems of nurses are solved by closing entire wards? Indeed the request is because the tension escalates and is quite serious, especially in Northwestern Bulgaria, let there be a representative of the Ministry and explain exactly what the minister said if he is so busy and cannot come and explain what is happening. Because the protests continue and it is not true that they have increased so much, whether nurses' salaries have even increased, because it seems to be a manipulation. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] About the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u19	I'll answer it myself. I don't think it's right for anyone else to comment on the Minister's words. When there is a chance, he will come, but today there is no such opportunity, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u20	Thank you, Madam President. To get back to the point. But at the end of the day, I was obliged to support my colleague because it really is a matter of high social importance. About the subject we're debating right now. I thank Minister Petkova for being here. It is quite rare for ministers to come to plenary. It really should be encouraged. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Excuse me? For example, when there is an important topic, Minister Ananiev flees the hall...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u21	Don't come in here and talk to the gym, Mr. Stoinev. Let's get to the point...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u22	But at the end of the day, for this bill, which we will be watching the Energy Act, there were such expectations that it was not adopted at first reading in the Commission, but we praised it and announced how good it is for the country. Of course, colleagues, it is an important similar bill that Bulgaria needs such a bill. We of the opposition said, the speaker, that we would really abstain because we have certain doubts. This does not mean that we do not support the efforts in this area indeed for a smooth transition from a regulated price market to a market at freely negotiated prices, it is staged, it is good, it is European, it is right and it must be so. Colleagues, all the more so, we have supported the latest changes, you remember, in the energy strategy here in plenary, we have all been all about and I believe that when it comes to such important cases, we should be united because in the end this is good for the Bulgarian country. But we can't help but be worried that we still don't have an energy strategy. We seem to be working on a piece, from month to month or from year to year, emerging projects, coming into the room, we understand government policy, but at the same time it is important to have a long-term horizon. Moreover, I open a clamp for tensions in the Marishka Basin. The future of the plants that produce electricity from coal is worrying and unclear what will happen the next 7 years and the real actions of the government. I believe that, in a strategy, we can mark them and also offer relevant solutions to what we must fight for..... whether we will do our best to preserve them or look for an alternative. After all, we at BSP are all about preserving these plants and we fully support the actions of the Bulgarian miners. Here was mentioned a few days ago for the start of the interconnector connection, an extremely important connection for the diversification of the country, efforts are being made by many governments. Before the elections, there was a first dig, but, colleagues, is there work at the moment? I don't think the builders are as enthusiastic as they were before the election. I would really love to have a positive answer, because this relationship is important, and the contract that was signed in 2013 with Shah Deniz 2 is extremely important, and that is where this notorious diversification will come from, which we all know should be there and working for it, is something really good. The gas hub, which the government of GERB boasts so much about, is still a media project. Still, however much effort, however much we talk, since 2014, we are on a media project that we are discussing, describing, is still a priority of Brussels, since 2015 is a priority of Brussels, we are now 2019, this year will also pass, and 2020, it remains a media project. Of course, we support it, of course, that we want Bulgaria to be a gas hub, but we are still talking about projects where, unfortunately, we do not see their real realization, except for a given start of the interconnector connection, but from now on how it will be ready depends entirely on the government. Why do we have doubts about this bill, ladies and gentlemen? Because really, if you follow the power exchange, we have a problem. It is true that this energy exchange was once established, with certain pressure from both the European Commission and a particular case for the creation of the energy exchange. This case has really dropped out, it has its functions, but, honourable Members, we can't help but worry about market manipulation. Especially in recent days, there has been talk of market manipulation. I leave aside, it is the work of the Bulgarian Energy Holding to do its job, but I say one big Yesterday at 13.20 pm and at 16.20 pm on our energy exchange were purchased by a client twice 50 megawatts of base load electricity from CEZ Trade at a price of 91 BGN. and "EVN Trade South East urup" at the price of 85 BGN. Strange why such a low price coincides with the announced plan repair program of the Kozloduy NPP? In other words, to two Western companies, quite powerful companies, we offer an extremely cheap energy in the planned repair of Kozloduy NPP, which will then have big profits for these companies. Moreover, three hours before receiving this price of CEZ, a company has won an auction at a price of 115 BGN. But then CEZ Trade later won an auction for 50 megawatts at a price of 91 BGN. PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Mr. Stoynev, what does this have to do with the topic discussed today?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u23	This is common, Madam President, with the following: it relates to the Bill why we will abstain. Because the manipulations of the energy exchange, and this gas exchange that we're going to create, will be a complete copy of the energy exchange, will bring these manipulations to the gas exchange. We want the Bulgarian Energy Holding and, above all, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to start researching whether there are really market manipulations, because this is condemned and for us this is totally unacceptable...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u24	You're making an impression right now, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u25	No, no, I'm not suggesting, because under the Bill, we're going to create a similar energy exchange and a gas exchange anyway. And that's why we're so worried, and I'm giving it as an example that no matter how much we fight manipulation, we're only fighting on paper because since yesterday are similar examples. Two large companies buy a base capacity of 50 megawatts twice at extremely low prices, provided that for 2019 the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has set a price for example from BGN 89. Well, which manufacturer sells at £85. Tell me.! After all, there should be no such distortions, and indeed the Energy Holding must do its job and this exchange, however independent it is, obviously things are happening there that do not meet the market principles and it is no accident that the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian producers are worried because there is no cheap energy left for them. Therefore, on this bill, we will abstain if we will fully follow what happened years ago with the Energy Exchange. We really want to be guaranteed that it will be on a transparent basis, on a market principle, and that the most competitive price will indeed win the one that can provide it to both businesses and consumers So, again, I say: a necessary bill, a necessary bill, but at the same time we are worried and therefore we will vote abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, look how he makes an impression when you're in the Chamber! To congratulate you, Madam President, you've done a good job, I understand in Moscow...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u29	...related to the planes. From what I understand, you were involved in energy. I'm taking the floor right now on trying to get back to the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u31	We're looking at a bill. Of course, all these questions, which both the opposition and the government put to Minister Petkova, are reality and should be given the appropriate answer. However, the existing Energy Act does not provide for the possibility of licensing and establishing a stock market for natural gas, unlike the electricity market. The electricity exchange just now by Mr. Stoinev was seriously characterized as an institution that is not doing its job, which I will not agree with. Colleagues, when we create a certain institution, we must have the particular patience and, as politicians, create trust in these institutions. Perhaps everything you described, Mr. Stoynev, is exactly the same, but whether you have researched in advance and see why the stock market reacted to basic energy, why it had previously sold Colleagues, my request is that if the MPs from the stands will constantly try to prove how our institutions are unable to liberalise the market, we must return to those years when everything needs to be regulated, for which we do not agree. The idea of creating a stock market for natural gas requires that the relevant amendments to the regulatory base be adopted subsequently and that is why we are making amendments to the Energy Act. Of course, through the creation of the exchange, it will be allowed to create and develop a free liquid market for natural gas and the gradual dropping of the regulation of the selling price of natural gas, which we have been dreaming of for so long. I do not want to talk about the delay in the adoption of this law, I do not want to talk about those cases that were fought against Bulgaria because of the delay in the adoption of Directive 314/2014, how we are still struggling, I do not want to say how and how Sasho Donchev went and condemned us. Because of these delays, of course, we have a certain guilt and we do not have a free market today. Of course, I can't blame all our energy gas experts here, because the policy that you government led led to this situation. Should we liberalize the market? I have to. Should we raise the 3% gas distribution in the country? I have to, of course. However, if we do not accept the free stock market, if we do not ensure that the funds and the construction of those pipelines, through which we will make possible bilateral contracts, an opportunity for the realization of the Balkan hub, we have no way and how to increase these 3% gas distribution. Madam Minister, if we don't pay attention, we talked to Mr. Nikolov yesterday and have a meeting with these gas distribution companies in Bulgaria, where in the eight territories occupied by them, at the moment others cannot enter, be able to create the respective opportunities and other market participants to start expanding the distribution network, we will still be treading in one place and we will wonder whether we have diversification or not. Of course, there are certain things in the Law that I do not agree with. Especially in art. 176, where there are some specific numbers determining the size of the public supplier's participation in the supply of gas for sale on the organised stock market, at least because of their indicative nature and the lack of penalties in their failure. I believe that between first and second reading these articles will be refined. I am convinced that there will be other proposals in the direction of developing the free gas market. As far as diversification is concerned, the efforts made by the government, the efforts made by us as MPs by the amendment and by the supplement of the laws, are fact, but delays are reality. I will ask the managers not to compete to try to impose, whether to call it "Balkan Stream" if you want to call it "Gerber Stream." As you wish, so call it, but please make sure that the diversification and supply of gas in Bulgaria can happen. Because the delays that are currently disturbing the people's representatives with Greece's interconnector and with the construction of the pipeline to the Serbian border prove that we are struggling with the small things, we are trying to convince Mr Putin how the Balkan stream is going to, by calling it, Europe will embrace the pipes and allow us to build them. During this time, I think you are late enough and you should do everything possible because by the end of 2019, if the construction of the tube, which we are all talking about and with trembling we expect, then diversification will not happen, the free stock market for natural gas will be exhausted. I don't want to be a prophet, but as if the delay that is at the moment and your attempts to overcome everything that is happening in relation to the public procurement laws are damaging to Bulgaria. So, honourable Members, returning to the Law, relying on our gas energyists, every MP who can make a proposal between first and second reading, let us do our best to create the stock market so that we can subsequently not be accused of failing the gas supply projects in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Private applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Firstly, I would like to thank the opposition for being constructive. Indeed, with such a delicate topic where we admit that we do not have enough experience, we need to act smoothly, we need to look at all the constructive proposals, so I invite them to the working group, which we will create, to give representatives, of course, with the stakeholders and, above all, the gas companies will participate, as well as experts from the Ministry, to examine the Law and to make a sufficiently effective law to act. Of course, there was a little policy, but it's normal, we're still in parliament, and that's why I want to make some clarification, disprove some of the things that have been said. Because an analogy is being made with the electricity market in Bulgaria, I mean about the very big differences. However, there has been electricity trading since 2007. The colleague Genov knows. There weren't even platforms at the time, but there were four or five companies that were licensed and who actually took the first steps in what we never practiced to sell electricity. Now the licensed companies are over 200. We have an active, independent energy exchange, it has liquidity. However, there are enough and many producers in Bulgaria, although unfortunately, they do not have this capacity and potential that other exchanges in Hungary, Leipzig, or anywhere else, but this is why the market itself suffers because there is not enough energy to be offered or it is exported quickly because we know that we have over 40% more exports of electricity this year. But to tell you the truth, neither in the Bulgarian Constitution nor in our Rules says that the Bulgarian MP should be a pedar. We are not freaks so we can go and remove defects or effects from the stock market. Because Mr. Stoinev said that there could be manipulations, but the statements from this tribune themselves are manipulations, especially when speaking about transactions of companies that are listed on the market is a kind of manipulation. When you say from the stands that there's some kind of deal you have doubts about, it's a kind of manipulation of the stock exchange. So there are rules made, limits that we applied in the Energy Act, where the KEWRC should, there is an opportunity with absolutely all, I would say, not only strictness, there are enough opportunities that the Law gives him so that he can track emails, enter offices and so on, and so forth, so that he can establish these stock manipulations. It's not the job of the MP. I mean, I think the law is good, too, because if it wasn't good by now we would have had suggestions from both you and us. I also express concern about certain transactions. Employers signal certain deals themselves, but I don't see how we can help with legal change. This must be done by the regulator or by the rules of the stock exchange themselves. Of course, we can provoke, we can do if you want a round table for this, but it's not the Law that's guilty, so it's no reason to say that because there's doubt in one stock exchange, so we'll abstain for the other. So from this point of view, I think you're wrong, but, of course, it's nice to discuss it and look for options, to be able to limit any such speculation. Of course, in a gas exchange, when there was so far one supplier at an entry point of Isakcha, where transiting took place in Bulgaria and accordingly distribution in our country, there is no way you can make stock trading.................................................................................... can be......... Therefore, so far, there has been no possibility and no conditions to create such trade. But when interconnector connections are already ready, when we know that next year, life and health will be completed two infrastructure projects that will bring other sources, not only routes, diversification, but sources, it already creates prerequisites for such stock trading. And now is precisely the time to create this regulation, when there will be insufficient liquidity to test it, so to speak, of course, looking at all sides, so that at some point, when this exchange is already developing, we are confident that there is someone to regulate, who is to supervise this process, to avoid stock manipulations and, accordingly, to know and to be sure that the price that is being achieved is indeed market. Because it was also mentioned in connection with the case, which was brought against the "Gazpromexport" and the possibility that each of the parties could renegotiate, I would like to say that Mr. Pavlov specifically said, and everyone can clearly understand that by the end of last year the price at which Bulgaria received gas was much lower than the quota markets. So we didn't have conditions and it wasn't worth agreeing on a reduction in the price of gas. You know that the price of gas was reduced in 2012 with the direct conversation between the Prime Minister then Borisov and the Prime Minister then Putin regarding the achievement of the goal of giving a final investment decision in relation to the South Stream. We take advantage of this opportunity and the price of gas was lowered by high percentages and in fact Bulgaria was getting gas at a much lower price than our neighbours. They wanted and were looking for an option in which way to buy gas from Bulgargaz. So that they could export it to Greece or Turkey from the surplus quantities or in general whatever quantities they could reach. So there were no such conditions, and now we know that 20, 30, even 40% go lower than spot markets. We know that we have a new request from the "Gszprom" to change the gas supply point, which enables "Bulgargaz" to negotiate for lower prices already and we deserve lower prices. We must ensure that the Bulgarian economy has a lower energy resource, which, of course, also enters its competitiveness. This has been reported by Minister Petkova and she defined it, respectively, the gas companies, so we expect results and, God forbid, to achieve these results. We know that it is very difficult for Bulgaria to negotiate with such a huge mastodon as Gazprom. It's very difficult! I've been negotiating myself, so it's gonna be really hard for the Ministry. Of course, the European Union is behind us, but when the European Union is negotiating, it is quite different, so we must really strive for the European Union to be a negotiator, not to be Bulgaria itself. But it's a separate matter. Why should the KEWR license the gas exchange instead of stock exchanges and trades? Well, electricity is also a commodity, by the way, it could also be sold on some of the stock exchanges that are licensed in Bulgaria. But they have neither experience nor experience, they have neither the capacity to control nor regulate nor to sit behind stock manipulations. On this top of the limit, this has been given an opportunity precisely to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, which is why we have given them, with the experience they have over the years regulated this market in terms of prices, due to the experience they already have in connection with the electricity exchange. We already know that the Commission has been referred twice to the Commission in order to be able to fulfil its stock manipulation limit obligations, so that the KEWRC is the only institution to which we have given it the opportunity and, as a budget, to have sufficient capacity, to appoint competent people, to provide them with the financial resources in relation to these investigations in order to be able to carry out this activity. Therefore, I think that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is the natural place where it should give the license to the exchange and accordingly monitor stock manipulations, which are also given by regulation. I think the basis of this law is good. There are a lot of things that need to be looked at, we need to review, and all of us who are interested are looking for balance, because we in this Parliament are looking for balance. There is no need, Mr. Atalay, to say that Gerbadji is this or that project is a Bulgarian project. For the first time in Bulgaria we are talking about a project that is Bulgarian because the pipe, which will be built from the Bulgarian-Turkish to the Bulgarian-Serb border, will be entirely Bulgarian. Before, you know that for South Stream it was 50-50 with Gazprom and with the Bulgarian Energy Holding. It will now be the property of Bulgartransgaz. It will remain Bulgarian. God willing, long years ahead, as is the entire infrastructure in Bulgaria. We managed to preserve it, you know, with the cost of many even political failures in this connection, we also remember "Topenerji" and so on, how in every way it was wanted to take the infrastructure of Bulgaria. Even the European Commission has insisted on taking large parts of this infrastructure. But, thank God, together we have opposed, we have accepted the respective obligations that "Bulgartransgaz" should so that we do not give this infrastructure so that we can conduct policies through this, so that we can know how to do it. Of course, there is one project hub, but it, in order to become a fact, must be fulfilled certain infrastructure conditions, that is, the hardware must be ready before the software is ready afterwards, and the hardware I think is already clear and visible in the year ahead perspective, not years, but a year ahead. So when we meet the conditions for diversification of routes and sources, we have at least three sources and, God forbid, we find. We have been talking for years that we are waiting for gas quantities to be found in the offshore area of Bulgaria, but we do not yet have such good news because it is a slow process. We see that only one well is worth 500 million, and I think three drills have been made, but we expect more to be done, which gives us hope that the seismics they have made give such hopes. Let's hope we have mining companies. We know we had one of those at Melrose in Varna and, God forbid, we should have more. That's on my side. I invite you and I hope you will participate in this working group to examine the bill, because it is not a political project of a party, but a project for Bulgaria that we have all worked for, negotiated and many governments have suffered in this regard. You see the interconnector projects how difficult they were, so this was suffered by all Bulgarian governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u35	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, first of all, thank you all for the discussion, and thank you for the criticisms from the opposition colleagues, because I see that they are well-meaning. My team and I tend to accept every single criticism when it is constructive when it will lead to good results for Bulgaria. Regarding the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the Ministry of Energy supports the proposed bill entirely, because what is intended to be achieved with these changes is really extremely important for the Bulgarian energy sector. It's a process we've been waiting for a long time to happen. And because there were speeches that we were late with the liberalisation of the natural gas market, I will say the following: perhaps we all wish this process had happened much earlier, so we now believe that there is some delay, but there is no way to liberalise the market, provided that we have a single natural gas supplier. If we have several different sources to allow for different prices, at different conditions, then we will also have a market, then there will also be competition, there will also be different conditions on which the aim is to be in the interests of consumers. I think this moment is ripe now, because there is no way we can trade anything without actually having it, and it is an option, from several places, that we can deliver it so that we can compare better conditions and a better price. With the implementation of the infrastructure projects of the construction of the connection with Greece, of the realization of the expansion of the infrastructure in the territory of Bulgaria from the Bulgarian-Turkish border to the Bulgarian-Serb border, the interconnector with Romania, the interconnector with Serbia, are indeed creating conditions for us to have the opportunity to supply natural gas from different sources. The next moment that needs to happen is the construction of a natural gas trading exchange, that is, we must have the infrastructure that enables us to supply natural gas from different sources, on the other hand, we must have a market on which this natural gas should be traded. I believe that this moment is absolutely adequate to the situation and the development of the gas infrastructure of Bulgaria, and once again thank you all for the proposed bill. Of course, the Ministry of Energy will participate in this working group, which Mr. Nikolov mentioned would be established within the parliament. The entire administrative capacity of the Ministry will be involved in this process so that we can achieve a good bill that will enable the liberalisation of the natural gas market. Since we have several times talked about the analogy with the Bulgarian electricity trading market, let's just say this: how the relevant electricity markets or natural gas markets will develop is not up to Bulgaria. This, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is a regulation of the European Union that we must strictly follow. There is a directive on natural gas, Directive 73, there is Directive 72. There are very clearly indicated the conditions under which these types of markets must develop. Bulgaria, I dare say, follows strictly all European rules. Since some information was exposed in connection with transactions at the Electricity Trading Exchange during yesterday, I will say the following. Mr. Nikolov is on the subject, I will only allow myself to say that last year a change in the Energy Act was made. You all remember that it was then that, in order to dispel any doubts about manipulations, a decision was made and by law it was determined that each electricity producer must trade its energy solely and solely to a stockbroker. I can talk about the companies from state energy, the companies within the BEH group. They all sell their electricity on different platforms of the Exchange, but there is not one megawatt of electricity that is sold outside the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange. Apart from that, a change in the Law transposing the regulation was adopted again last year. It empowers the KEWRC to control the market precisely in such a situation when there are doubts about manipulations, the regulator has the opportunity to intervene. So there are all the prerequisites for society, all of us, to be calm about having the necessary legal framework and that there are the necessary institutions that have the relevant rights to eliminate any such doubts. I rely on the Bulgarian regulator that, if there are any such doubts, he will refer to or self-serving so that he can make such an inspection and be calm society and business. Thanks once again for the proposed bill. The Ministry of Energy supports it and will work for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 954-01-43, submitted by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs. Vote 169 MPs: 107 against 1, abstention 61. The motion is accepted. Thank you, dear Minister, for participating today. We continue with the next item of our work programme: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW ON MARKS AND GEOGRAPHICS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to Mr. Kanev. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u37	Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 49 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please support the entry into the hall of: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, and Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 126 MPs: for 123, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. Continue with the presentation of the report, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u39	Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe under the Marks and Geographical Indications Bill, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 19 June 2019 examined and discussed the Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, and Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lilia Ivanova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is first to transpose into national law the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks. The directive accepts that it is sufficient to lay down the basic principles by giving Member States the freedom to introduce more detailed rules. At the same time, it ensures that registered trade marks enjoy the same protection in the legal systems of all Member States. The key changes concern the abolition of the requirement for graphical representation of the definition of EU trade marks and national trade marks; absolute grounds for refusal of registration; protection of designations of origin and geographical indications; strengthening the protection against untrue declaration of trade marks; effective fight against counterfeiting of trade marks. The second group of proposals in the new bill derive from the practice of implementing the current Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications and Council Regulation (EC) 207/2009 of 26 February 2009 on the Community trade mark codified as Regulation 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the European Union trade mark. The trade mark and geographical indications bill shall lay down the conditions and arrangements for the registration of trade marks and geographical indications, the rights deriving from it and the protection of those rights. Other issues addressed by the proposed bill are related to improving the legal framework in the procedures carried out, speeding up the process of registration and acquisition of rights, strengthening legal protection, reducing time limits, facilitating correspondence with applicants and holders of rights. It is envisaged that the existing until now model for the payment of state fees, according to which payment is made at each stage of the registration process, will be replaced by a single payment of the united service due at the beginning of the procedure. The payment of a single fee is also appropriate from the point of view of the procedural speed and efficiency of the proceedings. The bill provides for an increase in the amount of fines and property penalties imposed, which are aligned with those laid down in the Copyright and Related Rights Act, because in both cases, there are violations of intellectual property rights. Certain deadlines for registrations are also shortened in respect of both the Patent Office and the interested parties. In order to achieve full compliance with the requirements of European law from the scope of the new law, registration of all goods and products for which European Union law provides for European registration and protection of geographical indications, namely the registration of geographical indications for spirit drinks, wine products and flavoured wine products, which are carried out under Regulation (EC) No 110/2008, Regulation No 1308/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 251/2014 will be excluded. The registrations of geographical indications for agricultural products under the previous law falling within the scope of the regulations cited above shall be terminated as from the date of entry into force of this law. The law on trade marks and geographical indications in force so far is hereby repealed. It proposes the creation of corresponding new provisions in the Law on Patents and the Registration of Useful Models and in four other laws, and the implementation of the Law is entrusted to the President of the Patent Office. According to the importer, the bill will have no direct or indirect impact on the state budget. A comprehensive preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A group of representatives of industrial property express their views on the texts in the Law which are outside the transposition into national law, the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 which would lead to a serious violation of the constitutional right of protection of persons applying for or proprietors of trademarks to the extent that the right of protection cannot be exercised at all in main administrative proceedings in the Patent Office, nor in the administrative proceedings before the competent authority of the Patent Office of the First Instance of the Administrative Court of Sofia City. The Intellectual Property Alliance in the field of pharmacy, chemistry and biology in its opinion disagrees with the introduction of final, i.e. time limits in the proceedings for opposition to registration, request for revocation or deletion of the registration of a mark, as well as with the introduction of opposition to trade marks and company names. The Union for Economic Initiative insists on maintaining the current model for payment of fees in the registration procedure and objects to the reduction of procedural time limits for the submission of views and evidence in the proceedings. The Association of Bulgarian Employers' Organizations expresses concern that the Bill will seriously harm the economic interests of their companies and organizations and will undermine Bulgaria's image as a country with a good investment climate. Some of the new provisions in the Draft Law, which are not related to transposition of European legislation, would lead to a serious breach of constitutional and European rights of protection of trade mark applicants or proprietors, to the extent that the right to protection cannot be exercised at all. The contrary to the principles of the administrative process and hence the breaching of the right of defence proposals in the Bill express an equalisation of the administrative process with the civil process, i.e. a replacement of the very essence and purpose of the administrative proceedings. In the subsequent discussion the MPs Rumen Gechev, Zhelyo Boychev and Adlen Shevked raised questions about the protection of the registered in the Patent Office so far geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs that do not fall within the scope of the Law and whose registration is terminated after the entry into force of the Law and the abolition of the restriction of the representatives of industrial property to be only local persons. The questions asked were answered by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, the Patent Office and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. After the end of the discussion and voting with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Marks and Geographical Indications Act, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019 [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u40	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kanev, as always, you are collecting applause.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u42	With the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, Mrs. Mehmedova will introduce us. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Mehmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I present: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. At its regular meeting on 19 June 2019, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. The draft was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova, Deputy Minister of Economy. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department at the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy, Mrs. Eliza Dilova, State Expert in the same Directorate, Mrs. Silvia Berkova, Secretary General of the Patent Office, and Mrs. Antonia Yakmadjieva, Director of the Directorate Sporas and Administrative Punitive Activity, at the same office. The importers point out that the need to draw up a draft Law on Measures and Geographical Indications is to fulfil the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union, to transpose the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks into national law. The draft is intended to bring the legislation into line with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2021 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs and to eliminate the non-compliances identified on 28 January 2019 with a reasoned opinion on infringement procedure No 2017/4062 as described by the European Commission. The reasons state that with Bulgaria's accession to the European Union according to art. 5 Paragraph 11 of the consolidated version of Council Regulation (EC) No 510/2006, which was repealed, existing national protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs should have been suspended within 12 months of the date of accession, i.e. on 1 January 2008. The only possibility of obtaining protection for agricultural products and foodstuffs after 1 January 2008 is by registration of a protected designation of origin or a protected geographical indication under Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, which provides protection in the territory of all Member States of the European Union. Due to the fact that this obligation has not been fulfilled, the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings No 2017/4062. In January 2018, an official notification letter No C (2018) 363 final was received stating that Bulgaria had failed to fulfil its obligation under Regulation (EU) No 115/2012. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria and was promulgated in No. The adopted legislative amendments have not satisfied the European Commission and, on 28 January 2019, a reasoned opinion has been received under Procedure No 2017/4062, in whose legal assessment it is stated that the Bulgarian legislation is incompatible with European Union law, in so far as it provides the possibility of national protection of geographical indications falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012. It is noted that the law in force on trade marks and geographical indications (prom., SG No. 81 of 1999; No. 82 of 1999; e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: 61 from 2018) still retains the protection of geographical indications in breach of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, albeit for a transitional period only. The objectives set by the Bill are aimed at bringing the legal protection of trade marks and geographical indications in force in the country in line with the requirements of European legislation and increasing legal certainty. Two groups of proposals shall be made to achieve the objectives outlined by importers. The first relates to the transposition of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 and to compliance with the requirements of those Regulations, which constitute a substantive amendment of existing legal rules, as well as the introduction of new rules of protection against the national system. The second group includes proposals for amendment and supplement resulting from the practice of implementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications and Council Regulation (EC) 207/2009 of 26 February 2009 on the Community trade mark codified as Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on the European Union trade mark. The provisions of the Bill proposed in connection with the transposition of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 relate to a change of the definition of the mark. Importers set themselves the objective of overcoming the existing restriction on the acquisition of protection for signs of distinctive ability but cannot meet the requirement for graphic representation and others. A number of measures taken against the reasoned opinion of the European Commission on infringement proceedings No 2017/4062 received on 28 January 2019 are: termination of the registrations of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 for spirit drinks covered by Regulation (EC) No 1308/2013; termination of infringement proceedings for rights falling within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012, Regulation (EC) No 110/2008, Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 251/2014 in respect of which decisions are not entered into force and the decisions entered into force but unfulfilled will not be subject to enforcement. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Ms. Lilyana Pavlova and Mr. Christian Vigenin. Both noted that the main objective of the Bill was implemented, namely to transpose European legislation. At the same time, they stressed that some texts that give rise to certain ambiguities need to be refined between first and second readings. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u44	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mehmedova. We are continuing with the Foreign Policy Committee report. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u45	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. At its meeting on 19 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Desislava Georgieva, Head of Department, and Mrs. Eliza Dilova, State Expert at the Directorate, Technical Harmonization and Consumer Policy. from the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mrs. Silvia Berkova, Secretary General, and Mrs. Antonia Yakmadjieva, Director of the Directorate of Sporas and Administrative Punitive Activities. From the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mrs. Vasil Ruykov, Advocate, Ms. Magdalena Radulova Lawyer, Ms. Mihaela Mihailova, and Ms. Petar Kalpachiev, Mr. Vassil Pavlov and Mrs. Alexandra Semerdjieva. The draft of trade marks and geographical indications was presented by Mrs Georgieva, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks, while our legislation is brought into line with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. The introduction by law of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 aims to harmonise the rules and procedures relating to the granting of protection of trade marks within the European Union by ensuring a single system that harmonises and uniformises differences in the legal arrangements of the Member States. The provisions of the Bill relate to a change in the definition of a trade mark and to a clarification of the grounds for refusal. It detailed the procedure for access to the files of the protected sites and signed the procedure for registration of marks and geographical indications, opposition, appeal against decisions on positions, deletion and cancellation. The law specifies the obligation and conditions for the use of a trade mark and lays down the scope of protection, including new compositions of administrative criminal and civil legal protection, creating a legal possibility for registration of a collective and certification mark. It lays down the content of the state registers of trade marks and geographical indications and strengthens official start-up by supplementing the rules concerning judicial control. In addition, the proceedings concerning international registrations of trade marks and geographical indications are settled. The law also proposes the introduction of a one-off fee for declaration and expertise and provides for an increase in the amount of fines and penalty payments imposed for administrative infringements against trade marks and geographical indications, thus aligning the rules of the law with the prescribed administrative criminal procedures in the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The convergence of rules across the European Union and the improved cross-border protection of trademarks and geographical indications will promote economic growth related to the more efficient distribution of business resources and will lead to an increase in the competitiveness of businesses. The bill will improve the legal framework and facilitate the conduct of opposition and opposition complaints procedures. Representatives of non-governmental organisations discussed the introduction of deadlines for engaging in evidence and the prohibition of providing evidence in the first instance proceedings, expressing a position that the rights of defence of applicants and proprietors of trade marks are thus restricted. The discussion was attended by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Pencho Milkov, Yavor Bojankov, Krum Zarkov and Anna Alexandrova. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have said that some of the proposed provisions should be refined and added that the new law proposes rules of non-compliance with the principles of the administrative process. Mr. Mitev and Mrs. Alexandrova noted that they would support the Bill, adding that it was necessary and introduced the requirements of EU acts. They said that proposals can be made between the first and second votes to strike a balance between the interests of the interested parties. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, 6 votes against the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for the Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. At a meeting held on 13 June 2019, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Lilia Ivanova Deputy Minister, and Desislava Georgieva Head of Department at the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy. From the Patent Office: Silvia Berkova-Donkova Secretary General; from the Ministry of Customs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Lilia Ivanova. The proposed draft is intended to transpose into national law the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2015 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and to synchronise national legislation with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. The adoption of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 is dictated by the existence of a certain discrepancy in the rules and procedures concerning the protection of trade marks between Member States and between national legal systems and legislation at European Union level. The lack of harmonisation in the procedures for granting the protection of trade marks leads to a delay in the process of obtaining registration, and legal uncertainty puts economic operators at undue risk, especially where, due to a reduced budget or a lack of time, they exclude from their development strategy the acquisition of rights on their industrial property sites, including marks on the territory of the European Union. The provisions of the Bill proposed in connection with the transposition of the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 relate to a change of the definition of a trade mark, supplement and amendment of absolute and relative grounds for refusal, a clarification of the texts in force concerning brands enjoying prominence in order to extend the scope of protection not only in the case of identity but also of similarity, provisions relating to speeding up the registration and acquisition of rights, strengthening legal protection, optimization of processes and others are proposed. Amendments are proposed concerning the aggregation of the fees due for the application of registration, as well as those determining the amount of fines and penalties for infringements committed. It is now envisaged that the existing model of payment of state fees, according to which payment is made at each of the stages of the registration process, will be replaced by a single payment for a joint service called the Fee for declaration and expertise, due at the beginning of the procedure. According to the preliminary impact assessment submitted, if the single fee for the service relating to the application of a mark or geographical indication is introduced, the consumer and the business will be saved administrative and regulatory costs and will be met more adequately the requirement for cost orientation according to art. 2, para. 2 of the Law on State Fees. The texts concerning the measures applied by the customs authorities to goods under customs supervision or customs controls which are suspected of breach of a trade mark or geographical indication shall be reviewed. It is clarified that the measures apply under the conditions and procedures of Regulation (EU) No 608/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the protection of intellectual property rights carried out by the customs authorities and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003. It is envisaged to increase the amount of fines and penalty payments imposed, which align sanctions for administrative infringements against trade marks and geographical indications with those provided for infringements under the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Some of the time limits relating to registrations are shortened both in respect of the Patent Office and with regard to interested parties. The expected results of the adoption of the Bill are related to ensuring greater legal certainty as regards the scope of protection of these industrial property sites. The competitiveness of enterprises will also be encouraged, which will increase the direct benefits for Bulgarian enterprises. The convergence of rules across the European Union and improved cross-border protection of trade marks and geographical indications in the long term will promote economic growth related to the more efficient distribution of business resources and will lead to an increase in the competitiveness of businesses. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held with the following results: 19 votes for the draft, without the opposition and abstention. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Marks and Geographical Indications, No 902-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. There are no reports from other committees. I'm opening the debate. Are there any MPs who want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue is being dealt with for the second time, we are in a penal procedure and we need to correct our legislation. In addition to its harmonisation with the European, unfortunately, there are certain norms in the Bill that have caused a disturbance. This is reflected very clearly in the opinions which, in particular, the four employers' organisations sent to the Economic Commission, to which I am a member and to which we discussed this bill. A number of performances have been corrected in public discussions, but it seems to me that we are rushing to adopt this bill without taking into account, I would say, legitimate concerns in the Bulgarian employers and their branch organizations. After all, business works and is represented and through its brands it is not irrelevant to them at all. Touching these regulations and rules could lead to very severe losses for the Bulgarian business and hence in particular for the realization of serious investments in our country. What embarrassed me in the discussion were the arguments put forward that the Bill would essentially change a regime, namely: it would deprive businesses and citizens of the opportunity to appeal the administrative acts which issued the Patent Office and in the process itself to provide new evidence. This will essentially violate the whole meaning of the administrative process, which must monitor the issuance of a lawful administrative act creating and changing rights. It is a peculiar feature of the administrative process that the administrative authority must comply with its act with all its circumstances which have become known to it during the proceedings itself and, in this sense, the limitation of the possibility of providing new evidence is contrary to the fundamental principles of the administrative process. I understand the motives of the importers for wanting a faster administrative process, but in my opinion, it is also important to respect that the administrative acts themselves must ultimately verify the authenticity and correctness of all the facts. It seems to me that this is the more important principle that we must follow. As members of the Economic Commission, by adopting legislation, we always strive not to violate the environment in which business operates in the country and not to create obstacles to it. It seems to me that by adopting the Bill without clearing these plays of it, there are serious risks and reasons to create a problem. Therefore, we will not support this bill at first reading, and we will try to make such a type of adjustment between the two readings that will give peace in the business of the country, at the same time to close this penal procedure, which currently has our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Mitev, you have a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, I will agree with some of the findings made by my colleague Boychev, but I will support the Law at first reading, as this is a whole new law. The approach of the importer in this case is correct in view of the fact that the Directive relating to the convergence of the member states on trade marks is transposed and numerous amendments and additions to the Law on trade marks and geographical indications are imposed in the current law in order to proceed to the adoption of an entirely new law. However, I also disagree with the approach followed, not with regard to transposition, but with regard to the proceedings before the Patent Office and before the court. Unfortunately, the importer has obviously not taken into account the specifics of the administrative proceedings that are being developed before the Patent Office and the corresponding proceedings that are subsequently taking place before the court. The administrative process is largely subordinate not to the competitive beginning, but to the official beginning, which requires establishing the informal truth in the process. That is, the truth contained between the folders between the cover of the case and the objective truth is the truth that really exists and therefore all the facts and evidence that are relevant in this case must be collected. Unfortunately, with the time limits and norms laid down in the Bill, which practically remove the official beginning and introduce a stronger competitive start, this objective truth about the situation in opposition proceedings and the proceedings in defence of a trade mark, cannot happen. Apart from that, I will not enter into theoretical reasoning about the principles of administrative and civil processes which are unacceptablely mixed in this case. With regard to the ban on the submission of new evidence, the Court does not take into account the constant, lasting caselaw in administrative proceedings that new evidence in the administrative process is not only newly discovered or emerging, but all evidence which has not been collected in administrative proceedings, and this is practice not only in the proceedings before the Patent Office, but also in any administrative procedure. Here, unfortunately, is evidence of the unacceptable replacement of the rules of administrative and civil processes, without taking into account the specifics of the administrative process, all the more so that the administrative process is a two-instance evidence is collected and presented only in the first instance, and the second instance is a cassation instance, it is not an instance of the facts, it is an instance of law. However, I believe that these shortcomings that have been made can be corrected by relevant changes between first and second readings. I'm also declaring that I'm going to make one. I allow myself to make an appeal to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism for a working group between the two readings so that ultimately a law can be adopted which does not harm the rights of persons involved in proceedings before the Patent Office and in legal proceedings. I am making an analogy with the Copyright and Related Rights Act, where, as a result of a working group, I believe that relatively balanced texts have been obtained, and although this is about protecting not intellectual but industrial property, I believe that the same approach should be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u52	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Baychev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members of the Parliament, I see that we have achieved some consensus with our colleagues from the Commission, as my colleague Mitev said, and everyone, I would say, expressed an opinion that there is a need for such a new law to regulate civil relations in this area. It is this bill that is being proposed to us that is precisely as it offers new norms, as well as norms that regulate new relationships. We are of the same opinion, but I would say that the difference between us and Mr. Mitev is that we are going to vote abstention, as we have certain concerns about how administrative proceedings will develop subsequently. I would stress that the Bulgarian Socialist Party has serious concerns about certain provisions. They do not concern the provisions implementing European legislation in national law, we are concerned that some of the provisions which create a crime, namely the inability to present new evidence in a judicial phase when appealing the administrative act. In our view, this violates fundamental principles of the administrative process, are not at all in line with the objective of the administrative process, which is to issue a lawful administrative act establishing, changing or terminating rights. It is impressive that the Law uses the excesses of the civil process without taking into account the peculiarities of the administrative process. I'm not going into the details of these features. I would point out that, according to the administrative procedure code in the administrative process, the administrative authority is obliged to comply with all relevant facts and circumstances in its act, regardless of when they arise, as long as they become known to it. In these cases, importers explain their motives with the need for speed of the process and discipline of the parties in it, but we believe that discipline and speed of the process, firstly, cannot be detrimental to the rights of the entities and, secondly, the speed of production depends mainly on the administrative authority, i.e. how quickly it will examine its files. And thirdly, I would like to stress that speed does not always mean quality of the process. Binding the pre-trial period with the possibility of the parties to the proceedings to put forward arguments and to constitute evidence would create conditions for the issue of administrative acts in an unexplained factual situation, which literally means conditions for breach of the principle of authenticity. Hence, the competitive start in the administrative process will generally not have the burden it has in the civil process, because the more we rely on the competitive start, the more the administrative body is threatened to establish only the formal rather than objective truth. Not each of the parties to a dispute has an interest in establishing objective truth, which is why they argue, as each party claims and presents its truth to the administrative authority. With regard to the ban on the submission of new evidence before the first instance proceedings, the texts proposed in the Bill allow in the judicial phase of a dispute to present new evidence only if they have been newly or newly discovered. That is, if they were not known to the parties or did not exist until the dispute was considered by the administrative authority as emerging and newly discovered, it is viciously borrowed from the civil process. There is an attempt to bring him into the administrative process of rules that are foreign to him. In combination with the time limits for submitting evidence in the administrative proceedings, the prohibition of submitting new evidence in the proceedings leads to a situation in which an administrative authority which has been abdicated from the official start can always issue administrative acts that do not reflect objective truth and, as a result, be procedural and materially unlawful. That is why we reserve the right to make between first and second reading proposals that can synchronise the current legislation with the regulations proposed in the new bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no requests for other speeches. I was warned that Mrs. Ivanova would like to take an attitude. Here you are, Mrs. Ivanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank you for the comments, comments, considerations on the draft bill and to emphasise that the draft Geographic Marks and Designations bill presented is an exclusive European Draft, which is called in 80% of its provisions to transpose Directive 2436/2015. The whole bill is 134 articles and 80% of these provisions are procedural rules and substantive rules which are called to align our legislation with the Geographic Marks and Marks Directive. In addition, I would like to emphasise that there are already two infringement procedures in the area of trade marks against Bulgaria: for non-transponation within the framework of that directive and for the incorrect application of Regulation No 1151/2012. In this regard, the adoption of the bill will thwart sentencing mechanisms against our country. There were considerations about the so-called crime, fines, fees. I would like to assure all MPs that we have made a commitment, as representatives of the importer, between first and second readings, to specify the provisions that concern stakeholders. At the public discussion stage, the proposals made by business organizations and businesses were largely tailored and I see no obstacle within the period between the first and second reading of the Bill to submit precision texts that will ensure effective mechanisms in the field of patent law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Mr. Kanev, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u57	Colleagues, a very brief statement. The Bill had very great interests mainly from the guild of NGOs. I thank Mr. Mitev for his offer. I don't know how it is on the other committees, but we will have a working group where we will discuss all these proposals. We have just commented that proposals will come from MPs between first and second readings. The 80% bill is a European directive, as you can see, it is not a ZID, but a brand new law. We, as a parliamentary group, will abstain because we definitely think that between first and second reading many things need to be fixed. From now on, my request is that in the week-long period all proposals be made so that we can really understand, we are in a penal procedure, so that in the coming weeks we can put all your proposals into this bill. Thank you once again for your extraordinary activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Professor Gechev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Once again we see how we should not work, we adopt a law at first reading, then we fix it between first and second. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What do we accept if the Bulgarian business is against it? All representatives, honourable colleagues, the four organizations came and said that this law works against the interests of the Bulgarian business. What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u60	We've stopped the debate, haven't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u61	And just because we're late and we're in a penal procedure means that the administration alone in the European Union is not doing its job. We cannot make decisions against the interests of the Bulgarian business, which is categorically against. They're 20% different, but they're fatal. There's no way! I will vote against. [[Comments from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u62	Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u63	I won't! We've stopped the debate, haven't we?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u64	No, I'm shutting them down now. I'm closing the debate. I haven't closed the debate so far. Please calm down in the hall! Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We are about to vote. First vote on the Draft Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications, importer of the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019. Please, voting mode. They voted 110 MPs: for 74, against 3, abstention 33. The Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications was adopted in the first vote. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 6 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u65	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u66	Come in for a procedure, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure in relation to our Houses to extend the term of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 954-01-43, submitted by Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs, to the maximum period, i.e. four weeks. If you could put it to the vote, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u68	Of course. We vote on the proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov to extend the period between the first and second reading of today's bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act adopted in the first vote. We are voting for an extension of four weeks. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We set the deadline between the two readings of four weeks for today's adopted bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act. The next item in the Programme is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LOCAL AND THE LOCAL MATERIAL. We will hear the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you are, you have the floor to introduce us to the report, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on the admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for Mrs. Bistra Pavlovska, Executive Director of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u70	Please, voting mode. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. We're listening, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u71	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, No 902-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 19 June 2019 discussing the quoted bill. In the Commission meeting took part Bistra Pavlovska Executive Director of the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol, which presented the bill and noted that the main changes are related to reducing the administrative burden. In this regard, a minimum period of ten working days shall be introduced for the removal of irregularities on all types of applications to be submitted and for which no such time limit has been provided until now. These are applications for authorisation to carry out laboratory analyses of seed characteristics and analysis of the health status of seeds and seed planting material, applications for the registration of a variety in the official variety list, applications for the authorisation of a variety test, applications for the issue of a variety test certificate and applications for registration in the public national electronic register of persons who trade in seed or seed material. The bill provides for when the control official Polish inspection detects discrepancies due to the inspector's fault, which do not allow the certification of the seed to continue, its authorisation to be revoked. Accordingly, the person will have to apply for a new authorisation to the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control. With regard to fruit plants, the obligation to meet the requirements for biological and business qualities for soil and climatic conditions of the country will be dropped and the tests will be carried out only at the discretion of the selector. The requirement to be distinguishable, homogeneous and stable shall be maintained. Applications for the entry of a variety on the official varietal list for the following year will be submitted annually by 20 December. Within 15 days, the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and semecontrol will notify the procuring entity of the sorting of the order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, confirming the final decision on the recognition and entry of the variety in the official variety list or making a reasoned refusal. The text regulating the fees to be collected for a variety of tests shall be clarified and the amount of such fees shall be determined by tariff of the Council of Ministers and by price-signing of the services established by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for a variety of tests, acrobation and seed control. The sampling permits for laboratory analyses will be issued to persons who have passed a successful examination. Each manufacturer is intended to keep a book on the origin and quantity of the seed and seed material it produces. The texts relating to imports and exports of seed and seed material from and to third countries shall be reviewed. It is required that the seeds and seedlings imported meet the equivalence requirements of the European Commission by dropping the obligation to carry out grunt control. Control of the reliability of that information is entrusted to the Executive Agency by variety testing, acrobation and seed control. The relevant labelling requirements and certificates with which the relevant types of seed and planting material should be accompanied shall be provided. From the scope of the Law, seeds and seed material intended for export to third countries are excluded. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) stated that they support a large part of the proposals related to the precision of procedures and the reduction of administrative burdens. They raised the question of how much changes in imports from third countries will ensure the quality of imported seed and seed material. They doubted that dropping out of the obligation to meet the requirements for biological and economic qualities could lead to a reduction of the protection of traditional Bulgarian orchard varieties. From the parliamentary group of "United patriots" expressed the fear that the more liberal regime of imports from countries with reduced quality criteria could lead to inequality of Bulgarian producers of seed and seed material and called for all measures to be taken to protect their interests. The Executive Agency for Sorting, Acrobation and Semi-Control has explained that equivalence rules are procedures whereby the European Commission carries out checks on the compliance of legislation and practices in the applicant country concerned to verify that these practices meet the European requirements. Accordingly, the introduction of the obligation for imported seed and planting material to meet the equivalence requirements of the European Commission will ensure that only countries and producers fulfilling those conditions will import material into the territory of the country. With regard to the tired obligation for fruit species to meet the requirements for biological and business qualities by the Agency, the Agency explained that the protection of varieties is carried out entirely in accordance with the Law on the Protection of New Species of Plants and Animals, which requires only testing for diversity, homogeneousity and stability of the variety. This test remains mandatory. In this sense, in no way will the protection of traditional Bulgarian varieties be harmed. At the same time, the biological and business qualities test greatly increases the application for a variety on the variety list, so the applicants increasingly want similar tests to be carried out. Within the European Union, the movement of goods, including seed material, is free and the additional requirements for Bulgarian producers put them at a disadvantage against their European competitors. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 20 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-27.u72	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any statements on the bill under consideration? I don't see any MPs who want it. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs. There's a vote coming up. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 17 June 2019. Please, voting mode. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material was adopted in the first vote. Dear Members of Parliament, before closing the meeting, I will introduce you to the parliamentary control reports on June 28, 2019, Friday. It will be held after the conclusion of the first item of the sitting. 1. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Georgiev; and Stanislav Vladimirov. 2. The Minister of Justice Danail Kirilov will answer three questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov and Plamen Nunev. 3. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer two questions from the MPs Anton Kutev; and Georgi Yordanov. 4. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer four questions from the MPs Valentin Milushev; Alexander Matsurev; and Ivan Chenchev, two questions. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question by the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nikolai Tishev; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the representatives of the National Assembly Valentina Naydenova two questions; and Georgi Mihailov; and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to four questions with written answer from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Nikolay Tsonkov; and Irena Anastasova, three questions; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to one oral question and one written question by the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, one question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - one question from MP Krum Zarkov to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev; - a question from MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov to Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov; - one question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and two questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev; and Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva; - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - eight questions from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Ahmed Ahmedov; Lyubomir Bonev; Nikolai Ivanov; Dzhevdeth Chakarov; three questions; and Sevim Ali to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. The next meeting will be on 28 June 2019, Friday, at 9.00. Due to the completion of the agenda for the day, I am closing the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
