ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, I offer your attention to the National Assembly's Work Programme for July 24, 2019: "1." New discussion of the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, adopted by the National Assembly on 4 July 2019, submitted for a new discussion with Decree No 167 of 16 July 2019 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Election Code. Importers "Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019. Adopted at first vote on 16 July 2019. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Exporters "Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019. Adopted at the first vote on 3 July 2019. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer supposed the Council of Ministers on 3 June 2019. Adopted at first vote on 19 June 2019. 5. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2018. Importer "The Commission for Protection of Competition on 28 May 2019" 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Rail Transport Act. The Council of Ministers received a first vote on 16 July 2019 on 25 June 2019. The first point for Thursday, 25 July 2019 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2019 Point 2 for Thursday, 25 July 2019 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports. Importers "Stefan Apostolov" and a group of MPs "Step 3" for Thursday, 25 July 2019. 9. Debates on the question by the MPs Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the policy of the Ministry of Health with regard to personnel security with medical specialists. 10. New discussion of the Law on the ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related support (F-16 Block 70 aircraft and associated support), International contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria 11. Draft Law on the ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with regard to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019) Point 2 for Friday 26 July 2019 12. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 16 July 2019. Adopted at first vote on 19 July 2019) Point 3 for Friday 26 July 2019 13. Parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u2	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u3	Let's just vote and then I'll give you the floor. Please, voting mode. They voted 210 MPs: 154, none, abstention 56. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u4	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal to move the items on the so-accepted agenda, namely point 12 to become point 11, and point 11 to point 12. I am doing this because in the second vote of the Bill for Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act there are proposals, there will also be some debates, while the Bill for ratification of the Agreement is relatively indisputable. In this regard, I think that this proposal is reasonable. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please, fellow Members, I am voting on Mr. Popov's proposal for the replacement of paragraphs 12 and 11. Vote 204 MPs: 72 against 70, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 17 to 24 July 2019: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Importers: Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Decision on Debriefing No 954 05 26 of 26 June 2019 by the MPs Associate Professor Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev on the policy of the Ministry of Health regarding personnel collateral with medical specialists. Importer: Krastina Taskova and group of MPs. Draft Decision on the Debrief No 954-05-26 of 26 June 2019 by the National Representative Professor Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev on the policy of the Ministry of Health in relation to personnel collateral with medical specialists. Importer: Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2018. . 20 July 2019 Importer: Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Sixth Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in a case against Bulgaria for 2018. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. A bill to denounce the European Convention on Violence and Poor Behaviour of Spectators in Sports Events, in particular football meetings and to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to safety, security and service during football matches and other sporting events. Importer: Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Messages: On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 23 July 2019 Decree No 173 was received by the President of the Republic of Bulgaria under art. 101 of the Constitution, adopted by the National Assembly on 19 July 2019. Law on the ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that during the period from 26 July to 11 August 2019, including in Georgia, a multinational exercise will be held. The training will be attended by soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The study is carried out in the implementation of a Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2019 and the agreements reached with the US forces in Europe and is not related to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the carrying out of activities to prevent military action conducted by other States or organizations armed forces. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the dispatch and use of aircraft with crew soldiers from the Air Force of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide air transport for the transport of officials, led by the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria on a route from Sofia airport, an area of hostile to Ohrid airport, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and back to Sofia airport, the region of Vrajdevna for the time from 22 to 24 July 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received on 17 and 19 July 2019 respectively, with reference to the entry into force of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3]. No 903-09-37 and in. No 903-09-38 and granted to the Defence Committee. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 63, p. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers has adopted Decision No 432 of 2019 authorising the dispatch of military and military ships by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in NATO's permanent naval groups in accordance with the schedules for their operational use in the mission validated by the North Atlantic Council of NATO. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria the decision was also notified to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 22 July 2019. No 902 00 21 and granted to the Defence Committee. We continue with the first item of today's agenda: NEW CONSOLIDATION OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2019, as adopted by the People's RESTRUCTURING OF 4 JULY 2019, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAY No 167 OF 16 JULY 2019 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF JUL. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Committee to brief us on the report. Mrs. Angelova, come in. REPORT ENGINES ANGELOVA: Dear Madam President, colleagues! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 167 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 16 July 2019 on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, adopted by the National Assembly on 4 July 2019 and the reasons for the decree. At a meeting held on 18 July 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that decree. The meeting was attended by Professor Emilia Drumeva Secretary for Legal Affairs of the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, who presented the Decree and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the President returns for a new discussion in the National Assembly § 2, item 2. 2, 3 and 9, as well as § 3, t. 1, 2, 3, t. 4 (a) and 4 (b) 6 of the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, adopted by the National Assembly on 4 July 2019. At the beginning of his motives, the President pointed out that the popular sovereignty proclaimed in art. 1, para. 2 of the Constitution is a fundamental principle for the state structure of Bulgaria as a republic with parliamentary rule. In this regard, Article 3 (1) (b) of the Code shall apply. 11, para. 3 of the Constitution defines the essence and purpose of political parties as a mediator in the practical implementation of the rule of law. Therefore, the constitutional role of political parties dictates that they do not serve other interests but the interests of the people of the sovereign. According to the President, by § 2, t. 2 (a), (b) and (c) 3 of the Law amending the State Budget Act, which envisions financing of parties by legal entities and sole traders, this constitutional requirement is not met. The will that companies and sole traders form is aimed at their activities for profit. Therefore, their will to donate parties cannot be based on beliefs, but will be determined by their economic interests. It's no coincidence, Art. 11, para. 3 of the Constitution explicitly refers only to citizens as entities whose will forms and expresses political parties. In this sense, according to the President, the possibility of legal persons and sole traders making donations for the benefit of political parties is difficult to find support in the Constitution. The President notes that before the amendment by § 2, t. 2, 3 and 9 of the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, of art. 23 of the Law on political parties in favour of parties are allowed only donations from individuals, and it is of a certain maximum size, while current changes do not provide maximum amounts for donations, whether made by natural or legal persons. Donations from commercial companies and sole traders are undoubtedly accumulated from business, which legalises the financing of parties by means of such activity. Thus, the President concludes that political parties, instead of fulfilling their constitutionally assigned role to work for the government's governance according to the will of the people, are legally bound by the profits of certain traders, part of which will be returned in the form of donations. In this way the interest is replaced, in the name of which the political parties carry out their activities, as a result of which the constitutional foundations of the Bulgarian political system are affected. Next, the President points out in the motives that the concept of wide open doors for donations is not combined with sufficient transparency and control mechanisms to cross the dependences between political parties and their donors, which creates an environment for corruption. The President's opinion is that in practice the constitutional ban on art. 11, para. 2 - No political party should be established as a state party - to be overcome. Political pluralism and the obligation of the state under art. 4, para. 2 of the Constitution requires there to be a legal opportunity for different parties to mediate in expressing the ideas of the whole spectrum of society. This requirement cannot be met by giving the advantage of funding from illegal donations. These donations will not be directed in proportion to all parties, but only to those for which the donors have judged. It is expected that donations from legal entities and sole traders will be directed to political parties in power, as they are involved in the formation and conduct of state policy, as well as in the distribution of public resources. In this way, the merger of a party and a state will lead to the replacement of the constitutional model of the state structure and government without a change in the Constitution. The President notes in his reasoning that according to § 3, item 3. 1, 2, 3, t. 4 (a) and 4 (b) 6 of the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, which changes the Election Code, legal persons and sole traders can finance parties, coalitions and initiative committees that registered candidates for elections, thus dropping the limit to 10 000 BGN. for donations from natural persons and related administrative criminal liability. The restrictions in party financing have recognised utility and it is not to allow economic power to be turned into political and party power. And because political parties are a major participant in the electoral process, the rules for their funding are an important regulator and guarantor for fair elections, and through them...... for the true formation and expression of the will of the people..... sovereign. Finally, the President points out that there are no guarantees for the publicity of contributions made by legal entities to election campaigns, as only the names of donors are subject to entry into the single public register. According to him, the financing of parties and the reduction of opportunities for corruption in the electoral process should be part of a comprehensive framework for integrity, which the amendments adopted are not. In order to contribute to fair elections, parties must act with integrity, forming the political will adequate to the real opinions and ideas of the people, regardless of economic or other nature. After the discussion of the Decree, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 12 votes...................... 6 votes against........................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly that the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019, adopted by the National Assembly on 4 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u7	Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start by saying that we support the president's veto. However, I think that the two issues are interrelated, namely the question of the size of the state subsidy and the way parties are financed. They are in a causal relationship, i.e. it has been decided that parties should be financed by the state in order to avoid their dependence on private, corporate, oligarchic and foreign interests. First of all, the so-called Law practically legitimizes corruption, officially brings the state back to those dark, mutiny times in which there was a state in the country. You're officially doing it. These changes contradict both the Law itself on political parties and the European norms quoted in the veto by the President. In accordance with art. 12 of the Law on Political Parties a political party is formed at a founding assembly, which is held in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and is of the Bulgarian citizens. People with electoral rights according to our legislation, but they can now be financed unlimited by foreign legal and natural persons. Well, since they're funded by foreigners who are unaware of how they're going to take care of the Bulgarian interest, why can't they be formed abroad and not by Bulgarians?! With this change, you produce a political party and sell it abroad. Next in line with art. 22 of the Law on Political Parties, political parties cannot do business and are not entitled to establish and participate in commercial companies and cooperatives, which is practically a dead text, now completely redundant. Because in the grant race for donations, political parties will practically become an active player in the trade relations, and more, will determine these relationships. The state subsidy represents about 80% of the party's revenues. You say that these 80% will be raised outside the Treasury and you will want then independent policy, sovereignty. Well, there's no way to get this equation! Political parties will be dependent and serve corporate business interests, interests of foreign countries, foreign services, because here the old saying will be in full force, namely who pays, he orders the music. Political parties are part of the democratic process, part of the rule of law and are a political instrument that governs the state. In this sense, they and their protection and independence are also part of our national security. In this situation, the Prime Minister should come out and say: I am submitting a law to change their funding or, more precisely, in practice, to abolish state funding and that from now on we are throwing the parties to the oligarchs. This is stated by the Prime Minister of Bulgaria with clear awareness of the severe consequences for the security of the country, which is at least irresponsible, absurd. This is a grotesque of state-owned behavior and approach, he said that the Prime Minister of Bulgaria obviously knew what changes would be tabled by the DPS, but their proposal is such. You will be responsible for the consequences, not the DPS. Carrying responsibility, honourable governors of GERB, will not be exhausted with the establishment of an ethical committee, which in itself on this background is the least ridiculous. On the one hand, you remove the Minister of Justice, you remove Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov for moral responsibility, you create a commission within the party, and on the other, you practically legitimize these actions through law. Because now a construction company may decide to donate to GERB a block or a whole complex not by replacing other homes or at lower prices, but to donate because for example it has won a public contract for millions of euros. And perhaps the moralists of Mr. Borisov and your ethics committee will remain only to distribute the keys of the apartments and make a schedule for the use of the elevator. I appeal to the official coalition partners of GERB and to Volya, who seem to be not here in the Chamber: without you, honourable colleagues, GERB and DPS cannot overcome the veto, they do not have 121 votes. You, of the United Patriarchs, claim to be part of this coalition to be a corrective of GERB. Well, now you have this opportunity, you have the chance to show that something is up to you, and not just rob the negatives. GERB have the ability to absorb, chew and spit out their partners. For reference, see what happened to ABB, with the so-called reformers and pioneers in the new political position of the pioneer, who is ruling in opposition Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u9	Mr. Popov, what is the connection to the topic discussed at the moment?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u10	Yes, there is and it is about the support of this law. I think some of you were in this parliament, too, and I listened to the same talk from them. We've all seen the results. Show that you are the United Patriarchs, that you are the OP and not the CSC, show that you are not just a gadget and that you will not be in the channel as a political echo of GERB. [[Replications from OP.]] You of Volya entered this Parliament with a loud request for change, but honourable colleagues from Volya, change does not mean the return of old rules, old practices with severe consequences for freedom, business and democracy. What would you say, Mr. Mareshki, if a foreign pharmaceutical powerful company of yours finances a party or creates a party that will legislate in favor of this foreign company against the Bulgarian pharmaceutical industry and business in order to control the Bulgarian market because it is quite possible? This address to my colleagues from the United Patriarchs and I do not do it to make them vulnerable in any way, but do it only with concern for pluralism in Bulgaria because it is useful, it is an achievement. Let there be a choice of ideas, of policies, of these. Don't serve GERB! By serving GERB, you are melting and as proof see the results of the last European elections. Deelimination is poison for every party, for pluralism and democracy. Don't let that happen! Don't support this nonsense! We from BSP for Bulgaria are consistent in our position, we have arguments and we defend them. This is responsible, state-owned and democratic behavior. GERB will be financed generously by the business because the business is dependent on the state and the state administration, possessed by GERB, will serve as an instrument against the naughty business. This is a severe blow to pluralism, democracy and free, independent business in Bulgaria. There is no such funding model anywhere in Europe and there are reasons for this. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, you, colleagues from the European Union, from Volya to us from the BSP for Bulgaria. This is why I am addressing you: take the national security of Bulgaria off the table. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Kutev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u12	Dear colleagues! I will participate in this debate without the hope that I will get a result from this House, but with the idea that what I am going to say now should still remain for others who, in years' time, will read when they start changing those same laws. Colleagues, some of the oldest contradictions in modern societies, the most dramatic and the most bloody were the contradictions between the rich and the poor in their various These are the great contradictions that in the modern world, in the last 105 years have cost societies millions of victims. Yet the political system has somehow found opportunities to protect those who do not own the capital. Nowadays, there are practically two mechanisms that can protect the low layers of society from absolute arbitrary capital. These are trade unions, as far as they work, because often they can be made so that they do not work, and possibly some forms of political formations that have the respective objectives and opportunities to do so in the political system. At the moment when you make the political system dependent on capital, so that it is in fact the business that determines which party will be richer or poorer, who will exist or not exist with these texts at the moment that you are doing exactly that, you say that the business from now on will determine which political entity is interesting and who is not. I want each of you to understand, because most of you are not rich people, and they have worked something before, and, I assure you, much of you, from my long political experience, in just one or two years you will find yourself in that same labour market. I want to ask you: when corporations, business pays the parties, who protects in this country the poor and those who will not be able to move on.... your brothers, sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles and children? Who's gonna do it after your little toe that's gonna press something now because that's what they told him? There are about 40 people in the Chamber from you, 130 others are walking outside, they won't even listen to me. They will pass their parliamentary term and they will think that they are honest people who have done their job, only that generations after you will then suffer from what you are doing at the moment. Because when business pays the parties, there is no one to create any form of political protection for the poor and the disadvantaged in society. Parties paid by business will not regulate relations for the benefit of workers, for the benefit of the poor, for the benefit of the underprivileged, they will regulate them for the benefit of the rich. That's what's happening right now. It happens that three times in the last 30 years the scissors have increased between the poor and the rich. At the moment, business profits are way higher than gross domestic product growth, business profits are increasing by way of times. That's why scissors are growing everywhere, not only in Bulgaria. And you, at the moment, give them the wealthy and powerful, besides all the other power they have, because they have the financial power, they give away the jobs, they manage the media, colleagues, and you are currently letting them into the parties! Who's gonna protect your kids next?! What we're doing right now is nasty dirt about our own people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I listened with interest to the two statements of BSP colleagues, but I was under the impression that they repeated what they said when we voted on the Law. In fact, the veto is more specific than the Law of the President says his opinion on this legislation that we have adopted. His opinion is the following according to the motives and the political action he has taken. The President says that one lev is absolutely sufficient subsidy for the parties.. That is what the President says, we do not say it with our veto because the President does not veto this text. In this sense, I do not see what you support in this veto. It is the exact opposite of what you spoke during the debate on the adoption of the Law. It is the opposite of what you say today. At the same time, you are producing an action that supports this action by the President. Secondly, the President says not only that one lev is sufficient subsidy from the state.. it is absolutely enough one party to support itself and therefore the parties should not receive donations from private donors. This is already contrary to our thesis, but it is also contrary to yours. We will reject the veto because we say that one lev out loud is not enough subsidy, especially for smaller parties. Parties should also have the opportunity to be financed by private donors, doing so in a transparent manner, not by taking donations illegally and illegally, because it will eventually come to this with certain parties. When a party is large, a vote still gives some kind of financial resource. In addition, large parties can also collect membership imports from their members, which are more. The small party, however, will not be able to withstand this one vote. Therefore, the President's thesis that the subsidy should be one lev but not to be allowed to accept donations from legal entities is a bit hypocritical. The President should have said very clearly, rather very frankly he should have behaved in relation to the Bulgarian citizens. We, here in Parliament, must explain to them that parties have costs and it is better to regulate their revenues, to be clear if they deviate from the Law, to be sanctioned rather than to be hypocritical and to say that parties can with one lev per vote state subsidy and do not need any additional costs, so to be prohibited from receiving donations. For me, it's a hypocritical position of the president. Yes, he has complied with the will of a large number of Bulgarian citizens, who also say that this subsidy should be one lev per vote. I accept that I will repeat it, I said it as long as we accepted the Law, that this creates certain risks and that is why we are trying to prevent them by regulating the receipt of donations. And the president doesn't want these donations regulated. He doesn't want to. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u15	Please don't call from the hall, you have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u16	He imposes, I repeat, a veto on donations, not on one lev. That's why I'm interested in hearing your opinion on the president's position! Once again, the president supports a vote! This makes the President with the veto and makes it very clear and very categorical, in absolute contradiction with your position and with all your arguments! I will therefore call on my fellow Members to regulate the collection of donations, to have a regulation in this regard, to be sincere with the citizens, to tell them that if the state does not finance the parties, they must be financed by private entities. There are such practices in different democratic countries. This is not the basis of party activity, it is an important part, but not because of subsidies and not because of revenue the parties exist for other reasons due to public processes and not due to any legislation. The legislation came after that. Let us reject the veto, because otherwise we will make it so that we force some of the parties, I repeat, the smaller ones actually become a function of certain businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. The line is Mr. Zarkov, Mrs. Klisurska, Mr. Naydenov. Are there any lines from the other parliamentary groups? No, only from the BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, you have repeatedly spoken of one lev and what the President said about this issue. In the reasons for the return law, there is not a word about the size of the party subsidy! Nor does it say whether one lev is enough or whether it is not enough? this issue is not subject to this veto! Why, though, do you draw to this question? Because you don't want to look at the real object of this veto. And so that you don't repeat and argue with me, I will read you what is written in the document you should have before you in order to vote, knowing what you are doing. Through the Law, which we are now discussing again, the President claims and is right that the political system of Bulgaria is replacing itself as a democratic parliamentary republic! Why does the President explain below: "Because the constitutional role of political parties dictates that they do not serve other interests but the interests of the people. " And the President explains that commercial companies and sole traders serve the profit interest and when they give you money, you will serve their interest to profit and not the interests of the people! That's what the veto says. The veto also says that there is a danger of actually overcoming the constitutional ban that no political force should be established as a state, that is, not merging a party and a state, what you have consistently been doing in recent weeks. Finally: The financing of the parties, according to the President, and the reduction of the opportunities for corruption in the electoral process should be part of a comprehensive framework for integrity, which the amendments adopted are not. In fact, the difference between what the President is saying and what you are saying is that the President is clear and accurate, and you are bubbling to conceal from the Bulgarian citizens the elementary fact that you are selling our political system! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Bikov, from our parliamentary group we have read very well the veto of the President, and what you are talking about at the moment regarding what the President says listen to him. Because from the way he talks about financing political parties from legal entities, you should all be aware that this is a threat to the political system. In your speech, if everyone has listened carefully, and your colleagues from GERB, you are precisely pointing out this threat, because in the proposal we made for financing by legal entities, we did not introduce restrictions, we did not introduce any boundaries, we did not introduce any requirements. At some point you, with your speech, again want to put the cart in front of the horse, because when we made the proposals to amend the Election Code in this part of it.. for financing the parties by legal entities, that is exactly what we told you that this debate should not be done somewhere back in time, but first to regulate how it will happen and then to make the amendment. This discrepancy and this opening of the Election Code, or the Law on Political Parties in two months, every three months leads to a collapse in the political system and a threat to security. That's exactly what it is. I ask a question: what do we do with those who perform public procurement for public institutions? Are they donating? Where did we set this up? What do we do when a Salafi organization or foundation, because it is a legal entity, at some point finances a political party? Where do we guarantee the Bulgarian citizens that it is not a collapse in the political system when we did not impose a restriction on legal entities to finance political parties? So listen to the president's veto! Take the president's veto! Let us make the discussion in this law really constructive because what we are doing is disrupting the political system.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov. Should we increase the group's time? You're gonna have to extend the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bikov, very brief supplementary questions: do you consider the veto of the President, which you repeat many times, does not affect the issue of the amount of subsidy for political parties, of a constitutional issue? My thesis is: no. This is the right of the National Assembly as it is written in the Law on Political Parties to determine each year the amount of the subsidy for political parties. This is the essential difference in not affecting the issue even from a legal point of view. And plus, you remember the original proposal that unleashed this whole avalanche of proposals that went into the amendments to the Law on Political Parties. Excuse me, we are looking at the State Budget Act today, and the real changes are in the Law on Political Parties that is the first remark. The second one is much more important. Dear Mr. Bikov, can you tell me which texts in the Law on Political Parties regulate the financing of these parties from legal sites, sole traders and citizens to make the process transparent? There aren't any. What's the connection to public procurement? What's the connection to the concessions? What is the connection between these legal entities and sole traders with the entire system of the state in order to return money to political parties? I can give you many examples even from my constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u23	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Hole, Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u24	Madam President, all three lines were in the same direction. I'll make two specifics. First of all, we are debating the veto right now, not so much the Law, we are debating it in two readings. The veto. The president had all the constitutional powers to veto the one lev grant you're talking about. He didn't do it! He didn't do that, I say, and what he said is a completely different question. What matters is what he did. He says I'll say it again: one lev is a grant... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u25	Listen to Mr. Bikov's answer!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u26	...with his action he says so, colleagues. He says it's enough. If he didn't agree with this, he would have vetoed one lev and then we'd get to a debate and say, is it enough or not enough? He says: this should be the state's contribution from there to ban, there should be no donations from the parties. That's what he tells you. For me, this is a hypocritical position because, again, parties need this money. Obviously, we're all saying that, and there has to be some kind of regulation. What will happen if we accept your proposal to support the veto of the President? We remain with a grant of one lev and a ban on private financing?! This is happening. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We propose to reject this veto and allow parties in a regulated and transparent way to receive funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. To speak, Mr. Tsonev, then Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u28	Madam President, honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group will support the Law and will thus vote against the veto with the following arguments: we do not agree with the President's motives in particular with the majority of the President's motives. I will quote some of these motives: the constitutional role of political parties requires them not to serve other interests but the interests of the sovereign people. In § 2, t. 2b (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (d), (e), (e), (e), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (g) and (e), 3 of the State Budget Amendment Act, which envisions financing of parties by legal entities and sole traders, this constitutional requirement is not met. Are you serious? So the president's legal team, if he likes, doesn't let him down, because that sounds awfully funny. Until 2009, here are the laws on political parties, from 1990 to 2009 it is allowed for political parties to be financed by sole traders and by legal entities. The arguments of the President's team's legal board show that until then the Constitution has been violated, violated and the political parties have not played their constitutional role at all. Let's get serious when we're dealing with such serious legal matter! There may be other reasons, other assumptions that we made when we opposed the referendum, when we were against playing with the populism of all political parties. But it's unconstitutional?! Of course it's not unconstitutional. Next argument. The will that companies and sole traders form is aimed at their activities for profit, so their will to donate to political parties cannot be based on conviction but will be determined by their economic interests. So, every donation is determined by economic interest, is it? The fact that the donation through legal entities poses a danger of having an impact on political parties' policies is a fact that none of us deny. We have said it many times: better government subsidy in sufficient size, not in the amount that a show has offered, and everyone to like each other, we rush to say: we need to reduce the subsidy. Why should I? Why should I?! Where are the arguments why should it be reduced and how much should it be reduced? The fact that legal persons make a donation does not implicitly contain the claim that they will influence because they make donations to the sick, to the church. And that's where that applies? Is that mandatory? Such statements in motives we cannot accept. We can accept, and once again on behalf of the parliamentary group of the DPS, that we are ready to accept a debate on public financing of political parties when political parties give up populism, when they put the arguments on the table, when they explain to Bulgarian citizens, as we at the DPS are constantly explaining in the media, and when we meet with people, what the public funds of political parties need, how much money they need and what they spend, and not fictions about how someone was taking wages, how the central leadership of the parties were taking wages and so on. It's not serious stuff. Have any of the two major parties tried to explain that in fact the main defect of this funding is that the two major parties, say, when they have over one million or about one million voters, are receiving funding that is well above their needs, but these parties, the main part of which are small or medium, as you want us to classify them, are receiving funding under the current model that we canceled. There's not one extra lev. It covers their most pressing needs. Firstly, we do not agree with these motives and we believe that the President's legal team should refer more seriously to the Constitution, to the findings of violation of the Constitution, violation of the role of the parties, and so on. The fact that there is such a danger does not mean that the Constitution is violated in such a way as to write it, not that it is unconstitutional. None of what we've accepted is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? The line is Mr. Zarkov, Mr. Popov and Mr. Kutev. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, precisely because the President's legal team is well prepared, they have chosen their words very carefully. As with Mr. Bikov, I will use their words with my reply to you: the constitutional requirements are not met with regard to the constitutional role of the parties according to the President. They do not claim that this is unconstitutional if they claim such a thing, they will turn to the Constitutional Court. What they say and why it is very important to note that by 2009 it was indeed so. Let's think about why it's changed. It's been changed for several reasons. What has changed since 2009? By the way, this is a debate in which your party and you personally participated very actively, arguing that parties should be cut off from different business dependencies. Another thing that has happened since 2009 is that we are entering the European Union as a full member and we are beginning to comply with their requirements, detailed in many reports, which are also in the veto. To make it easy for you and not to waste the time of the hall, I'm sure you've met them on page two. And finally. Yes, there is no implicit fact that when you donate to someone, you impose your will. Let me think, however, that they are not the same reasons why they are donated to church and to a political party. It is not the same charity given by a businessman for the treatment of someone, and the one he has for political power. And finally. The Bulgarian realities are such that these donations are sometimes not at all voluntary. The parties in power are looking for readings that will then be displayed. So far they've been hiding them, now they're legally making them donations. These donations also have another name. It's called racketeering. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Second line, Mr. Popov, third line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, I will begin with what my colleague Krum Zarkov has completed. You cannot compare donations to political parties that are part of the government of the state, which should be part of the state's authority, on which this business will subsequently be dependent, with donations to a church or to individuals in need of help. They are neither in power nor in power, nor do they put in any dependence on those legal entities who donate them, however, unlike political parties. Regarding business, you said by 2009. You remember a colleague of our predecessor who talked about some hoops from companies around parties. This is why these changes were made to the Law on Political Parties so that these hoops of companies would not be available or at least they would not be so formal, because now the pyramid seems to be turning around. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov! Third line, Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u34	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsonev, there is one thing I agree with you on, and it is that we slept then the debate about one lev and the financing of the political parties at the time when we should have had it. Why did we do it, and who were we who did it, because pretty much the whole room was involved in it, is another matter? And here you're right. However, in what I don't think you are, the implicit dependence in question is whether or not it exists. Each of us here, as well as every minister and anyone who holds a public office, swears by occupying it, by defending the public interest. Conversely, no business swears that it protects public interest, and neither the Constitution nor the laws of the country in any way provide for business to protect public interest. We simply in our modern political system do not have such a requirement for business and it does not have such obligations, and on top of all that, there are no such ideas. And from now on, is there a link between the donations that business and the policy that it will require? Well, of course there is. And I regret that I return every time to the same topic, but this topic, unfortunately, both you and your party have turned it into a key for Bulgaria, because, when in your ranks there is a person named Delyan Peevski and he is financed a large part of the party, probably, but when for years the party and the business are directly connected and when for years the party transfers to Delyan Peevski, that is to say, business policy and vice versa, business transfers to politics, I do not know if it is unconstitutional, but it is against the foundations of the country in which we live and against the people, which in some way this person from your party manages because he has much more influence on contemporary Bulgaria than the Prime Minister. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u35	Mr. Kutev! Here you go, Mr. Tsonev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u36	Thank you, Madam President. All three lines of colleagues on the left actually confirm our main thesis that you slept through the debate that you were attracted to populism when the referendum was proposed, that you did nothing at all, to explain to people not to vote for one lev, because it is insufficient for the development of the democratic process, that then you left the impression that you did not know that if the referendum passed, you would be left without funding funds, as well as us, as all political parties, and that we would have to look for funding from elsewhere. Because the political parties, you agree that they will not stay like this with the current off, with unpaid water, without the Internet, without promotional materials and so on and so forth. You are also aware of the state of the membership imports in poor Bulgaria, where it is constantly false that some membership contributions are taken and declarations are written and so on. I don't know why you're so smart now. Not bad. Now you're ready for the real debate. Should there be public funding for political parties? And now to remind you that it was introduced on a proposal from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I personally did. I don't have time to read, I showed you that I took them out so you know that I'm quoting things that I'm not making up. The increase in the subsidy of one percentage of the minimum wage per lev, of six levs, of twelve levs was accompanied by corresponding restrictions in the open funding................................ to come 2009 when not because of the European Union but because of twelve levs per vote, which were quite enough for all political parties........................................... So now to blame here the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the People's Representative Mr. Peevski. Mr. Kutev, I understand that this is like Mircea Krishan's cucumber, but to accuse us of doing it because we are getting money from Mr. Peevski this, first of all, is absolutely untrue, not to use the other word of this tribune, the heavier one. It is obvious that we have been financed from the budget until now, until two weeks ago. It is obvious that it is better to finance ourselves from the budget and it is obvious that one and five leva small parties do not suit us. And that's why we closed your debate with our vote, so you wouldn't drag us...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u37	Time, Mr. Tsonev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u38	Why are you so strict with me? You're not that strict to anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u39	22 seconds on top.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u40	...do not drag us along this plane that you supported one lev. And what were we supposed to support? And you're okay with a million votes, and all the other parties, what do we do? That's not gonna happen. That in the DPS, no. [[People's Representative Petar Petrov applauded from the place: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. I'm strict about the time for all MPs. Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing the return law on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, to which the President of the Republic of Bulgaria vetoed, and in the part of financing, the uncontrollably funding of political parties. What does the majority vote and what do you declare today that you will again confirm with your vote? Financing by natural and legal persons without providing for a maximum amount, donations from commercial companies and sole traders without a transparent procedure for the origin of the funds. In fact, you will allow uncontrolled funding, which will deepen the dependence between political parties and their donors. Your logic deflects the eye from the individual. Political parties and when politicians work for causes and ideas related to the pursuit of a fair world in which everyone has a decent life, a chance to realize and develop his talent, knowledge and skills, cannot be dependent on corporate interest. Our party is a party with extended structures and many activities and members seeking social justice in a form on which our party is based. The possibility of funding from membership imports was mentioned. Yes, and our opponent, the main pillar in the government, GERB, at Boyko Borisov's direction, has already established rules to finance the party's activities from membership imports, but this party has been in power for 10 years. When the main members are out of power, you cannot look for a maximum fund implemented by membership imports. Therefore, I personally am for public funds from the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria to finance the activities of political parties. What is the size is also a question of public support after a thorough discussion with arguments and facts. I will finish, paraphrasing a thought. I do not worry whether the people are on our side, my biggest concern is whether we are on the side of the people, because the people are always right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I realize that this is, to some extent, a doomed discussion. But what needs to be said will remain in the history of the National Assembly, because I believe that the changes that have been made are the voting today of the President's veto is a watershed for Bulgarian democracy. I'm solidarizing myself with what my colleagues have to say. I'll try to focus on some elements. But to stress that the attempt to focus the discussion only on the President's motives is an attempt to divert the discussion from the substance, because today the discussion is not only on the President's motives, and the discussion is on the direction in which the Bulgarian democracy and the political process in Bulgaria are going. Why are we in this situation now? The changes in the budget showed the visually vicious legislative process, which is applied systematically in the National Assembly. First, an unnecessary haste with such changes. Secondly, during Transitional and Final Provisions, substantial amendments to other laws should be made without any discussion. Thirdly, such significant changes are made without an impact assessment from the point of view of the effect on the state and society. Stubborn legislation is being made without any dialogue between parties, without seeking consensus on such key issues that directly affect each of the parties represented here in Parliament and not just the whole society. Citing the referendum three years ago, as if you had now thought that there had been such a referendum, which I do not recall ruling on how parties should be financed, except on the subject of the one lev grant. All international standards are violated with regard to changes in legislation, which affects the electoral process, because with the amendments to the State Budget Act you are also amending the Election Code, you are also amending the Law on Political Parties. However, I must remind you that it is a requirement that such changes should not be made less than six months before elections, but these changes actually directly affect the electoral process. In its summation, the changes you have made, first, before the European elections; the changes you have made in the Election Code and in the Law on Political Parties through the State Budget Act, and the changes we are about to make this week again, for the third time, in the Election Code, are in one direction, creating a more favourable environment for the ruling party. Especially when we concern fundamental principles of funding for parties in the middle of the year, when budgets are planned, and we are preparing for an election campaign, we are coming out of one national campaign and we are going to another for the local elections. This is already a serious enough occasion and we have made it possible for international institutions to refer to it, because this direct contradiction with good practices in this area are something that we do not even see in walking democracies, which are much more in line with these rules. I will tell you that the group of countries against corruption, which, by the way, Bulgaria is a founder, is also directly concerned with the issue of party financing, and there are a series of reports on countries, for example, Austria, for which there are several reports that have been trying for years to change the financing of the parties in Austria in the direction in which we have already reached it and we are now going back with these changes that are being challenged by the President today. With these changes, colleagues said it, we legitimize racketeering, corruption and lobbying in the government of both the state and the municipalities. And any attempt to minimize this problem is in the wrong direction. We are aware that GERB is conducting a systematic policy for withdrawing the state, I would say, even humiliating the state from a number of spheres of public life, and creating an increasing space of private interest. We are against this policy, but we understand to some extent that GERB is a right-wing party and this is part of the direction in which they want to lead our country, but the concessionation of the parties goes too far. This is a direct threat to national security, first of all because there are no ceilings of funding; no restrictions on the nature, the subject of activity of legal entities that provide similar funding to the parties, except offshore companies, but nowhere is there a limit if an offshore company registers a subsidiary in Bulgaria, also to finance a political party and, of course, financing from foreign legal entities. I really wonder how it is possible to allow such freedom of funding from all sorts of sources of political parties?! This omnipotentness, as I said, is a direct threat to national security. We are called upon to protect the public interest. Populism can carry some short-term dividends, but when it is exercised by the ruling party, it is now a direct loss to society and the state. It didn't even bring you short-term dividends what you did for both one lev subsidy and now for the financing of the parties because, as shown by the polls, neither the government became more popular nor the prime minister. In the end, I'll tell you that the president's veto is a chance to stop and look around a little bit. I suggest that you support this veto, freeze these changes, initiate a temporary working group with the participation of all parliamentary parties to start working on amendments to the Law on Political Parties, in the Election Code, without this haste that we are currently witnessing, and, of course, on the aspect of funding for the next budget, the budget 2020. These are topics on which consensus can and should be sought, and it became even more clear that there are contact points. You yourselves understand the flaws of what you voted and accepted, yet you continue in the same direction. Here, you have a chance to stop. I propose that international expertise, coordination with the Council of Europe, with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, with the European Commission should be sought in such a discussion, as this is a key issue. It seems to me that this is the only way for you to be responsible for this really very important subject, which I hope you are aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? Come in for a cue, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Atanasov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u46	Very short line, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr Vigenin, in the current Law there is a ban on financing by foreign legal entities. By reading the Law of Amendment and Supplement to the Law, it is good to read the law currently in force. There are a number of bans: political parties can't be financed....... and so on. In the Law on Political Parties there are also other legal acts that concern this activity. There is no such option for financing from foreign parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Second line, Mr. Atanasov, third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, with great respect to you, however, note what the veto of Mr. President is. So, Mr. President is strongly opposed to legal entities financing parties, but it did not continue, which is extremely important, with the famous issue of the single lev. I strongly agree with Mr. Tsonev here because I listened very carefully to his arguments. So what's going on? It is so that this will mostly concern small parties, which, when they do not have funding and by stopping it, will completely disappear. In the future parliament there will be two parties, even DPS are at stake. In parliament, you will remain two major parties - BSP and GERB. Because business is normal, yes, we call them civilized people, it is normal for business to finance large parties. This is something perfectly logical and normal. At the same time, however, the president is silent about the famous lev. Thus, his veto practically dies small parties. That's what's happening right now. You will say: "But in America it was so, only in America there is a Law on lobbying, where the rules are very clearly laid down. There every corporation will be Dupont, Morgan, Rockefeller or General Electric, when supporting a party, sign a very clear contract what this business or group wants from the party concerned, everything is clear and precise. There, God forbid, to fund illegals, you know, that's considered there as a serious crime equivalent to murder. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u49	Get it over with, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u50	So no one in America is allowed under the table to give money to parties. Let us not compare countries where they really function that way. The Swiss model is completely different. There virtually all important decisions in the country are made with a referendum that is extremely expensive, but Switzerland is an extremely rich country and can afford it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u52	I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u53	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u54	Here I am fully solidarity with Mr. Tsonev's very reasoned statement. In fact, you will remain two parties - GERB and BSP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Popov, do you have a line? No. Mr. Vigenin, douche bag? A statement said Mr. Veselinov and Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u56	Thank you, Madam President. As I began in my speech, I am aware that this discussion is doomed at this moment. I am convinced that some of you understand how fundamental the problem is with the way the financing of political parties has changed sharply. I still think it's possible for us to stop this process. Whether this will happen today I doubt it, but do not transfer responsibility for what is happening to the President. He's trying to show us a yellow card, to protect us from the direction we're going. I am convinced that you will reject the veto today, but also the discussions in the adoption of the changes, and the discussions today hope to leave something in your mind and yet find the opportunity, the will and I suggest in a short time to attempt a consensus approach on these topics, which will respond both to the Bulgarian interest, to the interests of the Bulgarian citizens, and will be included in the European trends, something which, in the adoption of this bill, in the series of actions related to this, has been completely ignored. After all, we have our international commitments, we have our participation in international institutions, we have a heavy monitoring by the European Commission that we want to drop. What we're doing right now is a step in the opposite direction. I hope you're aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. For your statement, Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! We've been debating for over an hour, hearing different aspects and different opinions on the president's veto. I can sum up that everyone is doing: whatever the veto is, so is the Law. There's an exact correspondence between one and the other. In fact, three are the main features of both the veto and the Law: populism, superficiality and lack of a sustainable solution. Populism because both the law and the veto slide along the line of public approval and refuse to go deeper. In one case the fetish for one lev and for the rich parties, which should be punished with no money. In the other case, arguments are made about how harmful it is to finance parties from economic circles, however, it is not said how to finance them at all. Therefore, the veto, like the Law, is extremely superficial. They create problems, they don't solve problems. They are palliative actions that are for themselves and are contrary to any principles of state-owned thinking. We at IMRO are opposed to changing the system of financing of political parties and replacing it with the system "GERB," DPS, "Attack" which was practically imposed here, without debate, without listening to public organizations, many of which have quite rightly developed these in writing to all of us as MPs. This system is only beneficial for maybe DPS and part of the oligarchy in Bulgaria, which can create political projects to finance them legally. As has been said by other colleagues, as after the football teams wrote the name of the sponsor, we can bring there the political system that after the political party to write the name of the sponsor. One major feature has the behaviour of all participants in this debate and this is hypocrisy without any retention. BSP illegally took money and then said: "Ama must the finance minister resign. GERB know that one lev is not enough, but offered it to punish BSP. DPS supposedly opposed one lev, but they actually concrete twice this way of financing. In this regard, I believe that IMRO was sidelined by political bacchanalia and sliding along populism. We stood in a principled position in favour of the national interest and, in general, in favour of the political system, in favour of citizens being employers of politicians and political parties. Therefore, in this debate, we will vote as we voted in the previous vote on the Law, which is against the Law. It is difficult for me to say that we will be for the veto, but we will certainly be against the Law and our vote will be exercised in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u59	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. Let's continue with our speech. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! We've been debating the president's veto for about two hours now. If we go back to the debate we had under the law itself last week, it also lasted a long time. Here, from this tribune, there were repeated opinions of all parties represented in parliament. People's opinions, however, can't be heard here. People's opinion was heard three years ago in the referendum, and a very recently respected agency did a sociological survey, which says 67% of all respondents, and they are a sample, support one lev, as a state subsidy for party financing. Moreover, only 11% of them are opposed, the others simply do not have an opinion because they are not interested in politics. For the veto, I think the president has complied with the people's continuing will that the state subsidy for the parties be one lev. Therefore, it was no accident that the President returned the Law, but in no way opposed the amount of the subsidy voted in this law, because for him the will of the people is important. This sounds further in his motives when he attacks the financing of political parties through donations from legal and natural persons, saying that "the will of the people would change in this way for the representativeness of political parties in power and in the public domain at all; would threaten political pluralism. However, the President does not say, since one lev is sufficient, according to him, a subsidy for state funding, how will political pluralism be maintained if it is banned, as he pleads, limited, as he pleads in the motives of his veto, financing by natural and legal persons and sole traders. I have to say that when it's said, it should be said, and it should be said. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u61	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u62	I don't blame the President. He is not a legislative body, he has no legislative initiative. The purpose of his veto is to say what he disagrees with, but he under Constitution is not obliged to give us alternative proposals. A large part of the talkers of this tribune have declared themselves the presidential veto. A large part of them said that financing this with a state subsidy of one lev is incorrect, as well as wrong to have funding through donations from legal entities and sole traders, but none of the negotiators, with small exceptions, said how political parties should be financed. Not only did they not say from this tribune, but when we discussed the Law for a long time, there was no reasonable suggestion that I should not say a single proposal, especially from the left side of the Chamber, in which they would offer a method of financing, a sum for a state subsidy. Nothing! Because everyone is afraid to stand against the will of the people, because everyone wants to exploit populism to the maximum extent. Let's get back to the president's veto. The President says that it should not be legal entities and sole traders to finance political parties, because that would make parties dependent on their will, on their will to profit. From this tribune you expanded the qualifications and said that this would allow racketeering, corruption, that this would legitimize lobbying without a law on lobbying. Yes, there is really no law on lobbying in Bulgaria and that is not good because lobbying has. Much of you know it, practice it in this Parliament and in previous ones. But lobbying, my fellow Members, actually means putting your money in front of the whole society and why you're financing it. In fact, the main guarantor that there will be no corruption, that there will be no hidden funding that seeks hidden interests, is the publicity of these donations, the publicity that the law guarantees. In the age of the Internet, any person who has access to the social network can be informed which legal and natural person has financed a party. Not only to inform, but also to compare this legal or natural person in the past, in the current or future, has it benefited from certain decisions of this party. More transparent than making a donation and putting yourself in public, I don't see what can be done? And the fact that political parties should have funding to exist, no one denies it, and you did not deny it from this tribune. Once again I address you, honourable Members from the left, mostly from the left and part from the right: where are your proposals, what have you done to have the debate here, in this Chamber, between first and second reading of this law? You didn't do anything because you don't want to take responsibility for your public position. This can only be done as a conclusion from your behaviour. Political party GERB is firmly behind the proposal, which was made in the Law, namely to limit the state subsidy to the amount that more than 70% of Bulgarian citizens approve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Mr. Atanasov, first line, second line, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, there is never spoken on behalf of the entire people. This is allowed only and only historically, if I go back, the dictators, to speak on behalf of the entire people. Mrs. Stoyanova, elementary figures. Two and a half million people who supported the referendum, and you say this is the whole people on behalf of the people. Only four million people did not support this referendum. What do we do with these four million people first? Secondly, it is not true that no proposals have been made. The Patriots Group offered to have a ceiling on these donations, and you rejected it. Was it a fact? It was a fact. Mrs. Stoyanova, don't ever let yourself speak on behalf of the entire people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u66	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I also take the floor to disprove what you have said because it was not true. There were proposals between first and second readings, we made them. We have labored to offer a way of funding that we consider right. You have escaped the debate for nothing else, but you have escaped the debate because it is unfit for GERB because people do not want, they believe that the parties are taking a lot of money precisely because of the parties GERB and BSP, precisely because of the millions on account, precisely because of all the money you receive from the subsidy you receive from the state of various charity initiatives, because the idea of the legislator was to assist the parties in carrying out their specific activity. This is exactly the kind of proposal that we formulated to ensure at least the parliamentary activities of political parties, from the point of view of supporting clubs, from the point of view of the possibility of maintaining foster, meeting with citizens and so on in regional cities. This thing was possible for debate, but such a debate did not happen, was rejected. In this regard, I believe that GERB are indeed major debtors of society precisely to the topic debate. So we're throwing ourselves now from one idea to another, one idea to fix the other a little bit, but it's confusing something more. Then the veto will overcome it, okay, but the question remains open. This is not a sustainable system that you create. This system can't work. Sooner or later we have to change it, because it will blow up like a bomb and sweep away the political system precisely on the basis of unclean links between political parties and between business. Again, we are not about vetoing in this form and with these motives, but we are against the Law you created because it only harms the political system.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. For the back, Mrs. Stoyanova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u68	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I've been made a point here that I allow myself a dictatorial manner to speak on behalf of the people. We are representatives of the people here and we speak on their behalf. When we talk about the people, I have precisely lined up my position with the number of people supporting this model of funding from a lev from the state. So I do not think that MPs whose parties received votes less than the defendant Ivancheva [[noise and lines]] They have a greater right than I do to speak for the people. [[Noise and lines.]] As for the method of funding, I agree with you, Mr. Veselinov, that there should be a way of financing. I say that this does not necessarily have to be just a state subsidy, but such that all parties can carry out their activities and really have political pluralism. As for the unclean ties that you are talking about, I think that now and in the previous years there are more unclean links between business and political parties, which in no way become known to people, investigative journalists, all of us, and in no way will be made known, and the state subsidy was the alibi for these unclean links. Now, with this state subsidy and the publicity of donations, there simply can't be such unclean ties. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The procedure was stated by Mr. Popov. Come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u70	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. That in no way did you comment on Mrs. Stoyanova, which went absolutely beyond the veto imposed. She talked about quite other processes, projects, a lev and so on. Secondly, you should have reminded Mrs. Stoyanova what was the procedure under this bill. Mr. Borisov came, said he would throw political parties to the oligarchs, clap your hands, vote, debate ended. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u71	That's not the point, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u72	Now to blame and to cry that there were no debates when you voted them for two or three days, that is indeed insolence!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u73	The procedure in the way I was led was to me. I have given everyone who has so far spoken the opportunity to develop the subject in every aspect they want. I haven't said anything to anyone about whether or not it goes off the table. I've been democratic enough. So, colleagues, please, no further remarks. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I re-vote the Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 adopted by the National Assembly on 4 July 2019. Vote 214 MPs: 129 against 84, abstention 1. The Law amending the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 has been re-approved. Dear colleagues, the Law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Negative vote please, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against the Law because I believe that we should in no way allow the Bulgarian political parties to be dependent on the Bulgarian oligarchs, on businessmen, on foreign companies and any other interventions that will influence the attitudes of every political party under any law, on any proposal. What has been reaffirmed today in the Bulgarian National Assembly, unfortunately, is a step back from the democracy of Bulgaria. It is not normal for us, as MPs, no matter which political parties we are from, to allow Bulgarian parties to be dependent on different factors. Yes, it is clear to me that some of the parties in parliament are pleased with this.. some have circles of companies, others are businessmen and will finance their party directly. Maybe they've done it behind the scenes before, and now they're gonna do it clearly. The big parties, too. They will find people who will finance them, but when they finance them, what will they do for them afterwards? They should be grateful. Is this democracy, is this the way of government of the state, to depend on the Bulgarian parties from the business and business to decide instead of the elected people in this Chamber, or those who are in the Council of Ministers?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u75	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I don't see any other negative vote. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I present to your attention a report on the Draft Law amending the Election Code, No 954-01-48, submitted by Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 9 July 2019, adopted at the first vote on 16 July 2019. supposed to amend the Election Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u77	Are there any statements by the name of the Law, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: 120, against 12, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a procedure. I would like to report a proposal to the MP, Alexander Sabanov, to amend and supplement the Election Code. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid and a group of Members of the National Assembly for amendment and supplement of art. 213 of the Election Code. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote. Colleagues, I would like to report here and the next proposals that are outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote. Proposal of the National Representative Spas Panchev and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote. Proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission did not consider the proposal on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote. I'm doing a procedure, Madam President. Please put to the vote the texts I have reported. The Commission's view is not to examine the proposals made on the basis of art. 84, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. I'm voting on the procedure you just did... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Reverse procedure? Mrs. Yankova, please come in for reverse procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that in many bills so far, you have allowed yourself, colleagues from the ruling coalition, to take advantage of the law,................................. to change laws with transitional and final provisions of a certain law. If you remember, we had a discussion here for four hours about how you wanted to amend the Law on concessions, about the Black Sea coast through the Law on Construction and many other practices. And now, you see, when all Bulgarian citizens are debating that local elections will be held and when we want to restore a right to the people in 2015 3406 mayors of settlements were elected. [[Replys from the right.]] Yes, I am making reasons for a reverse vote so that you can make an informed decision about yourself. Now around 1500, nearly 1496 residents of settlements will be deprived to vote. And, colleagues, you're aware of the election districts. In these constituencies there are settlements where they do not have any public service. Is it right for us in democratic Bulgaria not to take advantage of the citizens' initiative to choose a mayor? Even look at French practice, even see European and other practices. And yes, if the mayors of municipalities were at least active to appoint mayors of town halls, mayors of town, that would be good.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u81	There's no time, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u82	Now I'm going to set a small example again. I've got three more seconds, Madam President. Thanks for the heads-up. Even in the three-year forecast of the Minister of Finance, there are funds for this. No cops, no doctor, nothing. Let's vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u83	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u84	... at the moment this proposal through the Election Code. If you reject it, we will again propose it, but are you citizens for European development?... You're looking for the citizens' initiative, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u85	Mrs. Yankova!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u87	Procedure... [[Noise and lines.]] There are two procedures. What do you want to vote on?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u88	Each item proposed by each Member of the National Assembly to be divided into votes separately. My point is separate, Mr. Panchev's point is separate. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u89	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Colleagues, I'm voting on Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal, which you just did. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] They voted 161 MPs: for 89, against 72, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u90	By § 1 "Contributor' text. Proposal of the National Representative Hamid Hamid and a group of Members of Parliament: § 1 to be repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Tsipov under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, the following amendments shall be made to § 39: 1. In para. 1 words shall be produced in at least 6000 polling stations and shall be replaced by not being produced. 2. In para. In all elections after the general elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2019, only machine voting is being produced and is being replaced by "After the general elections for municipal councilors and mayors in 2019, machine voting is produced only in elections for MPs, elections for president and vice president of the Republic of Bulgaria and elections for members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria and these elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u91	Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Conscious of the responsibility that we have as the largest parliamentary political power presented and as a mandate carrier for the conduct of legitimate local elections, we have accepted a retreat from the original proposal, which said that we propose that a machine vote not be produced in areas with a multi-manded choice. This is because we are really seeking consent and we are looking for it in a way that can achieve the maximum and transparent conduct of the electoral process. I will not repeat all the arguments that we have already put forward here in the first vote on this bill for the fact that, in view of the findings of the European elections, the engine vote will create a number of difficulties and may vitiate the process of election and the local elections, where we have to vote in a complex procedure for 265 mayors, 265 different lists for municipal councilors, 3187 lists for mayors of small towns, and I think 35 other mayors for districts in those cities where there are such ones. All of this, as arguments, I believe that it was quite objectively exposed to you, but I would also like to stress that we are really seeking agreement and saying here that we will do everything possible together with you to reopen the Election Code after the local elections and to look for these solutions to ensure a transparent electoral process, correct taking into account the results and will overcome all imperfections which, as a technical problem, are accounted for in the machine voting and as a problem in the electoral process in Bulgaria. For example, the large percentage of invalid ballots. We can discuss the topic of machine counting or another type of correct reading of election results. We will remove all the problems that have been created in time in the Election Code, because it has been repeatedly corrected and literally mended in order to obtain something that we really need to rethink at the moment, reconsider, but in the context of a calm procedure after local elections, for which we must ensure that we are in a way that does not lead to endless contesting the outcome and doubts about their legitimacy. I call on all the nationally responsible political forces to indeed take our outspoken hand for a consensus review of the Election Code following the local elections and now to support the rejection of the use of machines in voting for local representatives this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u93	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Daritkova, we accept your open hand. I will try to be responsible enough, too, because your responsibility does not end with the organisation of the upcoming elections, your responsibility as the greatest political force, as a supporter of governance. Your personal chair of this group is to have some sustainability and predictability in Bulgarian legislation, especially in sensitive materials such as the Election Code. Unfortunately, and the current retreat you are making shows the opposite, and I will tell you the most normal why. Just two weeks ago, you convinced us that there should be no machine voting: it should not be: because it is very expensive; it should not be because it is nowhere in Europe; it should not be because it is ineffective; it should not be because it is dangerous. There shouldn't be! Today you say there should be for all elections, but not for the locals! You either want a machine vote or you don't want one. We can argue about it, but take a position at last and let's argue over it. In the end, the people will decide who is wrong, who is right. You might say to corrupt the process. The problem is that he's largely already corrupted. The problem is that the constantly wronged protocols, the reports that go on TV, every local vote, and especially local vote, are corrupted by various brutal practices of fraud. Will the machine solve all these problems? No! Is a step in the right direction? Yes! Then why are you resisting? Finally, why do I think your application for responsibility does not correspond to what has been said? We are now going to vote on another amendment to one paragraph that was changed three months ago in one way and you are saying that after these elections we will open the Election Code and look at it again. What is the point of what we write in the Law? It's a law, not a book game. You can't go back to him every day according to your different findings. Okay, let's talk about the Election Code, let's talk about voting, machine counting and all the techniques we have, and we'll do it clearly after the next election, the next sessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u95	Time, Mr. Zarkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u96	But let us understand once and for all that the Law must have elementary sustainability, otherwise it should simply not have been applied. I apologize, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u97	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there a second line? Second line, here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u98	Thank you, Madam President. It's a very short line. I would have believed, dear Mrs Daritkova, that you were sincere in what you said if the engine vote had been put in place two or three months ago, and now you find these problems. For nearly six years we have been trying to introduce this engine vote, and right now you've been trying to introduce it before the local elections, you figured you couldn't introduce it. Now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Daritkova, you call for unanimous thinking and to accept your hand for responsible behavior, but it is very timid this hand, it is very hesitant. When you propose such a thing, you should go back at least seven-eight months ago, no more when from this tribune and Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, and you guaranteed us when we accepted the 2019 budget that there would be a machine vote. You guaranteed us that there was 50 million in the budget. lv. for an engine vote. Then we had the same debate, then you wanted it to go away again, and then I said the important thing is that parliament decide whether it wants to have a machine vote or not. Then between first and second readings, when the money was provided, again between the couloirs, unknown where, we all united that there should be a machine vote and introduced it. Then, shortly before the European elections, when we were changing the Election Code, on a proposal from our colleagues in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, you also made a time schedule of 3,000, 6000, 12 000. And we accepted that, and we said: we all work in this direction. However, your representatives in the Central Election Commission have sabotaged the introduction of the engine vote since the first day. That's why we say you're not consistent and that this hand is timid. Let's really hear the bail, and why are you running away from this thing now? The Central Election Commission is not currently saying: cancel the vote. They say: do first, second, third, change the legislation and no problem. There's plenty of time, but you still don't want to. When you don't have arguments and you just want consent, you just want us to work together based on what? There's legislation, there's money, there's a union of all of us, on the left, and on the right, and on the center, that there should be a machine vote, and no one is contesting it to date, as you said, the engine vote, and now give, exactly for these elections to be gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u101	Mr. Svilensky, finish the line!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u102	Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u103	Mrs. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable replicators! Yes, there must be sustainability of the legislative process, but in this regard we all have our bad examples, because the election code adopted by us in 2011. The 2015 election code has been mainly revised by your representatives, so we have to learn from our mistakes and we are ready... [[GERB's comments: "2014"]] ...sorry, I messed up the year a lot earlier. Thanks for the correct note from the gym. I would also like to stress that we are ready to learn from our mistakes, unlike you. Let us say that we have introduced the engine vote, that is, we have been consistent in the implementation of the Law and in this decision of ours. We introduced three thousand euro machines, we spent 7.5 million. BGN, we have provided a vote by means of machines, but we have also noted a number of defects in this vote. I will not repeat the arguments again because you have heard them and you have not been able to put forward your arguments against them, except that this will in any way guarantee the removal of the invalid ballots and will remove the control of the vote if voted through machines. That machines do not allow quick access to voters, that they do not allow proper counting, because we rely on manual summation of results, that they do not really allow us to be sure that the machine cannot be manipulated, because somehow the software must be protected, we consider it a problem and we want the debate to be serious, responsible, not to be within any deadlines that are pressing us at the moment, at the announced date for local elections. Therefore, I guarantee that they are absolutely correct and serious our intentions to have a serious, responsible conversation in the National Assembly about what will guarantee transparency of the vote, without, however, granting us discharge.............we, as politicians, can guarantee by our conduct a really fair game in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. Come in, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand GERB's main motive for lifting the engine vote, namely: the risk of failure of local elections. Isn't that right, colleagues? Let's go back to the previous ones in 2015, which were not a failure for GERB. How did success come, and how was failure prevented? I'm reminiscent of undisputed facts. According to the Association "Transparency without Borders" of the vote in 2015 there were one quarter more violations related to the work of the electoral administration compared to the previous local elections in 2011. According to the organisation's data, the controlled and bought vote represents more than 15% of all violations. The hysteria and sacks in the Sofia Hall of Arena Armeec. In October 2015, when processing the CEC section protocols ended after more than 60 hours, I repeat, more than 60 hours after the end of the election day, and people fainted from exhaustion, there was a signal in the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office in Vidin that part of the Commission had pens with disappearing ink. Then it turned out that this is not only in Vidin, but it is typical for the whole country. A huge number of technically wronged protocols, rewritten protocols from such successful holding of the elections, we are afraid of the opposition and we want to propose an alternative to the sacks, and to the scratched protocols, namely the introduction of machines. It was expensive, colleagues! No, colleagues, it is not expensive because there is an invisible dependence and this is the dependence of the mayors and the municipal councillors when they win the elections, then they have to do the necessary service and it costs the Bulgarian taxpayer millions, millions of levs, so this thesis that this cost very expensive and the paper ballot costs pennies does not endure. Another thesis we were not prepared for engine voting. That's not true! Power deliberately boycotts machine voting, and this is seen entirely in the way you vote here and in the constant change of opinion. If we're not prepared for the machines, I'm asking if we're prepared for the toll system. At the same time, however, at the gas stations, almost in all circuits, we see machines. In other words, there can be machines for electronic wine, and when it comes to the democratic vote of the Bulgarian citizen, there can be no machines because, you see, it cost expensive and it was very complicated. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that your main goal is precisely a professional victory in the local elections. You started with one lev, and now we're going to the engine vote, and that's who you are. You are currently redeploying power and want through the local authorities to guarantee then your victory in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Just be honest, honest, and tell me exactly what is the reason for the machine vote, because where there is no pen, indeed the vote can fully respond to any voter for the voice he has given. Unfortunately, the most pathetic is really for the democratic civil sector in the country, which is staying away from this debate. We on the left will continue to defend democracy and I believe that sooner or later you will agree with us. The problem is that when you start voting with us, and sometimes it is too late, so listen to us now: the time is right, the engine vote is necessary for the country. It's really a shame when we see the sacks when we see what's happening in the Arena Armeecs when we see the scratched protocols and the most important thing of all is that in a democratic Bulgaria we do not respect the voice of the sovereign! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u107	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I can't see. [[The National Representative Alexander Pawnov wants the floor.]] There's a record of a statement, Mr. Pawnov. You're not on that list. Do you want a line or a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u108	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my opinion, there was fear of the upcoming elections above the right half, and I will tell you why. Analyzing the European elections, although you won them, there is a trend for an electoral drop in GERB and for raising the votes for the left, and therefore a scenario is being played out at the moment in the National Assembly. First, you hit the opposition with one lev and bring them down to the ground at the upcoming struggle for the local elections. Secondly, you are reaching for the engine vote because it took six thousand machines to take part in the upcoming vote and what you are changing from six thousand machines, we are going to zero. Then you promise that in the next election you will reopen the Election Code and make changes. I assume you'll be calling off the engine vote again. What's the problem with the engine vote? What's the holdup? The problems and forgeries are mainly in the sectional election committees. There are produced invalid ballots, which are 7 - 8%, and for this intelligent Bulgarian people this is extremely much. That's where the protocols are being repaired. While the machines, when the total hits at 1900, get the completed protocol, which takes into account the exact result -- no false ballots, no scratching, no change. Then the sectary commission itself changes the character, because it only has a registration function. If you go entirely to machine voting, then there will be no combination between paper and machine voting, there will be no transfer of the result of machine voting into the protocol, where problems and forgeries are again occurring. Therefore, in my opinion, the future of Bulgaria is exclusively in the machine voting because it guarantees the accuracy of the vote. Do not doubt the intelligence of the Bulgarian people that they can not vote machine when we can buy wineries through these machines and also pay taxes by electronic means. I believe that today we must decide to remain six thousand machines and, in the next vote, I suppose, the parliamentary elections should be entirely on machine voting. Vote in this direction and you won't make a mistake! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Will there be lines? I can't see. Mrs. Nieva, come in for a statement. After Mrs. Niva's speech, I will rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! We at the BSP have expressed our opinion on the proposed change in the Election Code, in the part "Return of the machine voting in the upcoming elections for local authority" in both the Chamber and the Legal Commission. It hasn't changed. But you owe an answer to the following questions: why now so quickly, just three months before the local elections took place, do you make this change in the Election Code in the recommendations of the Venice Commission not to change the electoral legislation from at least six to 12 months before the elections are held? Why do you now want to deprive citizens of their democratic right to vote machinely, provided that one third of those voting for Members of the European Parliament have voted machinely? Why now, when the machine vote cannot be manipulated and it does not report null and void ballots? Why now, when we already have experience in holding a machine vote, have more than 20,000 members of the sectional election committees already had experience in holding this vote? Why now, when the Central Election Commission has declared readiness that it can hold the upcoming elections by machine voting? Perhaps the answer is one: this is how you prepare your official victory in the next local elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u111	Thank you, dear Mrs. Niva. Dear colleagues, I'll give you 30 minutes to rest. In the Northern foyer will be opened the exhibition "Shtrichi from the proximity between two distant countries" 70 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the People's Republic of China with the assistance of the State Agency "Archives" and the National Archive Administration of China. The exposition reveals the deep roots of friendship between our two countries. All MPs are invited to the lobby. I've been taking half an hour off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u112	Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber, and we will begin with a statement made by Mr. Pencho Milkov. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Gone"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u113	Next.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u114	Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It seems to me that in this debate we need to recall some of the arguments with which the recent changes have been adopted because they are important. It seems to me that it is important to say that the engine vote is a guarantee that the manipulation of the elections will be reduced to zero. The machine vote practically eliminates the invalid ballots. By the way, these are the same ballots that are 4 times more than the other European countries. The question here is, what do the government want to convince us with these ballots? Perhaps that the Bulgarian electoral is illiterate, can not make the right choice and determine or simply the scheme for announcing the uncomfortable and incorrect ballots for invalid ones must guarantee the perpetuation of power! The machine vote guarantees the preferential vote, which to the greatest extent expresses the will of the voters themselves. Machine voting eliminates counterfeits, or let's say directly the corrected, protocols. The machine vote minimises the work in the mistakes of the members of the sectional election committees. You understand that after all these arguments that I recalled, if there was a desire for a fair, transparent and objective election process, we all in this House had to support the engine vote now, universally and for all kinds of elections. But obviously the obvious and vague voices that are against him are dictated by the fear that this will happen, that the elections will become fair, transparent and objective and will not be manipulated. Today, all Bulgarian citizens will finally understand why the government refuses to introduce the ubiquitous machine voting for all kinds of elections. The reasons for this are obviously neither technical nor financial, as a few days ago tried to convince us the chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB Mrs Daritkova. There's only one reason, and that's your fear, gentlemen in charge! You're afraid of the light, you're afraid of the accuracy of computers and machine voting. You are afraid that all well-experienced grips and manipulation tools will no longer save you and guarantee you inalienability. You're really dealing with some third-rate technical issues. In fact, lately we have seen that some specialists in everything are being exercised precisely on the topic: Why limit or simply remove the machine voting for some types of elections? The truth is quite simple. It's just that the government was afraid that the machine of manipulation wouldn't work. So they went to the test grip and once again on the very eve, by the way, to change the election code. This is fear, this is anti-democratic, anti-European and undoubtedly violates the rule of law. That is why we at BSP do not believe in another legislative absurdity through which power tries and wants to guarantee inalienability for the time being only in the local government; we do not believe that after just a few months on the eve of the parliamentary elections the next change in the Election Code will be undertaken to limit the possibility of the Bulgarian citizens to vote, only and only to preserve their place in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u116	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Hamid, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, I had the opportunity to speak on this issue during the meeting of the Legal Committee, so very briefly. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support Mr. Tzipov's proposal. We believe that this is a step forward. True, it is not a complete victory, but it is a big step forward, with the engine vote being retained in parliamentary elections. However, we will not accept the complete elimination of the engine vote for local elections, and we will accept Mrs Daritkova's invitation right after the elections to open the Election Code and will insist on a machine vote in local elections after those coming. We are aware that with this organisation and this order that we saw in the European elections, machine elections in two months will result in the same and perhaps a bigger disaster. All the letters that the Central Election Commission wrote to a number of state institutions remained unanswered.................... who needed a longer term, who was out of competence, but left the Central Election Commission alone. There was no one to verify the machines, no one to audit, no one to test them, no one to write the software. Some machines were tested half an hour before the start of election day! Therefore, since September 2018, we have insisted that the state buy the machines and very detailed in the Code settle all issues related to the ownership of the machines, with who to certify, who to test and who to carry out subsequent audit of voting machines. We also believe that the Code should record who to draw up the software and who to count the elections. We will submit these proposals immediately after the local vote. We will also propose alternative solutions to the engine vote. In case a paper ballot is left, we will insist that machine reporting be introduced. We will also table all those proposals that we believe violate human rights, violate the right to choose, and all those texts that do not work under the Code. We believe that Mr. Tzipov's proposal is acceptable and once again I declare our support for him.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Klisurska, you have made a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let us be honest in this House today, too, let us confess to a five - year - old argument that will prevent us from accepting machine voting, as it is regulated in the Election Code. These arguments are not only untenable, they show your goal. Because just when you say that you want to postpone the debate after the local vote, most likely when we postpone the debate after the local vote, you will again put in an offer not to have machines. I say responsible from this tribune, and last week, when we were looking at the issue of machine voting, I said it, deliberately the state and the CEC stopped the machine voting in the past European elections, deliberately the public procurement itself.. what Mr Hamid said at the moment that the state institutions did not respond to the letters of the CEC show the attitude of management to the machine voting. The machine vote guarantees against the ill-intentioned actions of the electoral administration, and its removal leads to manipulations and election errors. That's the truth. Protocols prove it. Open the page of the Central Election Commission and look at the protocols..................................................................................................... scratched, changed results. Take a look at the percentage of null ballots -- 7% invalid ballots -- this shows that exactly the opposite should be our attitude towards machine voting. Because the engine vote is much easier, we can check how we vote, our vote cannot be manipulated and taken into account. This is extremely important. When we talk about voting, let us see the report and recommendations of the Public Council to the CEC after the completion of the European elections. They give a recommendation not to transfer the results of flash drives to the protocols. Nothing prevents such a procedure from being made which does not transfer the results of flash drives into the official protocol but in a separate protocol. After all, the work of the sectional election committees, as regulated in the Election Code, obliges them to produce these results, but they can be separate, can be visual and mirrored on what comes out of the flash drives. Mistakes were admitted by the CEC, errors were admitted by the members of the sectional election committees. In the end, I am convinced that if there is will in the government, if there is will in the Central Election Commission, I believe that this process can be improved by only amended procedural rules. I will say a few words about what Mrs Daritkova mentioned regarding the complexity of the choice. Exactly the complexity of the election, precisely that we will vote for mayors in 265 municipalities, we will vote for mayors of settlements, we will vote for mayors of districts, we will vote for municipal councillors and precisely because the lists will be infinitely long, precisely the machine voting will allow everyone, when they vote, to check this vote and it will be reported. So change your position. Support this return to everyone's desire again, and I think.. to all who have used the machine, because they know that this is the best option to take account of the vote of the people, so reconsider your position. I hope that today's will of the MPs does not remove the possibility of voting with machines and that these 6000 machines remain, so that ultimately the objectivity of the result will be better. Because on the contrary, it speaks to you that you purposed a professional victory, the goals of not creating enough difficulties, the goals of manipulating the vote, as you have done so far. Thank you. [[(Reply of the rapporteur Anna Alexandrova: You are specialists in this!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? Come in for a procedure, dear Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to put an end to the debate following the speech of the last Member of the National Assembly on the list provided to your attention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Tzipov. The last person to sign up is Mr. Alexander Ivanov. [[Heckling]] Okay, it's not you. You have the floor back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u123	Can you read who's on it? Read them!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u124	I'll read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, before the procedure done by Mr. Tzipov, I left to the President of the National Assembly a list of those who wish to speak, please let them have this opportunity to speak. [[Reply from DPS: "Yes, yes, yes"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u126	Yeah, that's what he said.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u127	Read the list, please, to know which people are speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u128	I'll read, let me do the vote, let you know the list. He was betrayed by you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Krasimir Tzipov. Vote 164 MPs: 108 against 55, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. I will read you the list of the speakers so far: the MPs Mr. Milkov, Mr. Svilenski, Mrs. Yankova, Mrs. Lecheva, Mr. Stoilov, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u129	And Alexander Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u130	Yes, and Alexander Ivanov was, I reported it. We'll continue with Mr. Milkov. You have the floor. Well, he won't speak then. Mr. Svilensky, come in. And Mr. Svilensky refuses to speak. Mrs. Yankova? Are you giving up, too?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Really, in my opinion, what is currently being held as a discussion before the Bulgarian citizens contributes to some extent the burden of the National Assembly to be contested and I will say why, colleagues. In his statement on the Bill, both yesterday and today, our colleague Krum Zarkov shared this, and I stand on his opinion, and the entire parliamentary group: we cannot explain why machine law is a right for presidential elections, a right for parliamentary elections, a right for Members of the European Parliament, and it is a difficult right, a more difficult right to hold elections for local authorities? I cannot explain this as a double standard, and as legislation, which must weigh, which must convince the Bulgarian citizens of the burden, honesty and justice of the vote. There's a lot of debate about is this a fair vote? It is we who need to regulate both the bills and the Election Code that there is greater confidence in society. Yes, the choices that are coming and with the rules that we are now creating, and with the possibility of voting machine, are given the opportunity, once, to have confidence in the people they choose and, secondly, whether the procedure will be with the newsletter or machine, to reassure the public that the people they choose are their fair and fair chosen by them. In the time of electronics, in the time of dynamics, in the time of developing these relationships somehow in modern Bulgaria, in the century in which everything dynamically changes, to debate whether the machine can be set up, whether it is expensive We therefore firmly hold the machine right to be voting rights during local elections as well. The colleague from Pazardzhik, who had just spoken, said colleagues, you see him, and if we have to look into the depth of the election process, you know that in a week's time, perhaps the vote for the book vote should also be the vote? Because when the passwords are not detected, the passwords are not detected, you all know and are guilty of keeping quiet about the fact that when the passwords are not detected, you have to go with the bag to the sectary committee, open the bag, count again, and bring a clean and clear protocol. What's going on right now? It is these marks, these crossings at night, with an undetected password, in the figures that give "service service" is currently changing even the vote. I want someone to come out and say that there is such a clean vote after the check in..... and to give at least one example when people have taken the ballots and returned and counted. In this case, going to the engine vote in the closest vote to the citizens, for mayors of town halls, municipal councillors, mayors of municipalities, district mayors in my opinion, we are obliged to give guarantees to the citizens that they will have opportunities in both ways, not to underestimate the people, not to underestimate the sectional committees, the Bulgarian people also derive our trust from it, and accordingly to give this right to have it. So we stand firm for this proposal: the engine vote to have it now on this vote, and since it is right in the Election Code for the other elections, there is currently no way for this right to say: it pò is not right when it is for local elections. This is what I wanted to share with the Members of Parliament, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mrs. Lecheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today on the agenda of the National Assembly two very important bills were presented to the MPs for discussion. In one, which concerned the normal democratic functioning of the political system, of course, the government along with their associated partners crossed out this possible democratic procedure in which the political system in Bulgaria would exist, proposing the American model. You tried with one vote, pressing a green button, to impress the Bulgarian citizens that they will become Americans from tomorrow. We're not gonna get them that way, the Americans. You are also trying to shift the debate in terms of the previous discussion, about one lev subsidy, by bypassing the possible dependence on corporations, business and so on. But the question here today at the second point and in the second bill, which we need to discuss, is how should the voice of the Bulgarian voters be taken into account? What the citizens have introduced for European development as their trademark is the counterfeiting of the protocols, the sacks, the invalid ballots, a trademark for your governance, which, however, Bulgarian citizens resent and believe that as a responsible MP, what Mrs Daritkova said at the beginning of the meeting, called us for the responsibility of all politicians here today in the National Assembly, how can we enable an honest, open choice and freedom of the right to choose Bulgarian citizens? Because it is no secret that the engine vote is an opportunity to circumvent the subjective factor, it is the only option that we can offer today to Bulgarian citizens. Today you say: yes, but for the parliamentary elections! But so, running through legislation like an elephant in a glass shop, I wouldn't be surprised if a few months before the parliamentary elections again changed the Election Code and canceled the machine voting, because this is what you regularly do in your practice. Today we vote one, tomorrow you vote 360 degrees, other than what you voted yesterday, with exactly the opposite arguments. Today, the issue is about the engine vote, which you reject as an opportunity on tomorrow for Bulgarian citizens to express their voice freely, and in front of the most important elections when it comes to local elections, for mayors, for municipal councillors, and with no arguments. One serious argument I hear is that the machines were expensive. Excuse me, you are trying in a very cheap and populist way to show that you are supposed to be on the side of the citizens, defending 2.5 million citizens by introducing a lev subsidy and now by canceling the engine vote, again saving from the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers. But for them it is already funny what you offer, because the tragic situation in which Bulgarian citizens are located thanks to the cheap populism you offer with the green button every day... They see the lasting strengthening of our last place in Europe. So there is no way your arguments can be heard by Bulgarian citizens, because 70% do not want to hear from you, do not want to listen to us and all of us. This is our responsibility, Mrs Daritkova, to all of us with the vote we are proposing today to the Bulgarian citizens. With cheap populism and cheap solutions, there is no way to advance and there is no way to become part of that European society that thousands, dozens of young people dreamed of in 1990, honourable gentlemen of the ruling coalition. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines? I won't. Let's move on. Mr. Milkov? I'm not looking for Mr. Milkov anymore. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are discussing the cancellation of the engine vote. The colleagues from GERB and Mrs Daritkova called for a debate, called for us to have a really professional expert debate about this shouldn't there be a machine vote, when to introduce it, for which elections, how many machines? Here's the debate, Mrs Daritkova. Why are you silent from GERB? Here it is, the debate is going.. speak only from BSP, speak colleagues from DPS, and everyone else is silent. So we can't have a debate if you're just waiting for us to talk and you're listening to us and finally press the button. There's not gonna be a debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u136	We can't take the floor from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u137	We've been trying to have this conversation for a year now. I told you both during the budget and during the adoption of the Election Code before the European elections, and a week ago again when we talked about these paragraphs. Now I'm sure you think the engine vote is necessary. We're not gonna open it anymore, are we? I mean, we agree that machine voting is necessary. Now let's see what the problems were and why they can't happen now or if you're not convinced, stand up and say no, you don't have to. But as far as I can tell from your call for a hand out for work in one direction, I understand that... [[Reply by MP Daniela Daritkova.]] You represent the group now and on behalf of the group you spoke. I understand you want there to be an engine vote. Critics were that almost a vote was expensive. Well, there's no way to calculate whether it's expensive or cheap, given that it's not mandatory. Bulgarian citizens, learning or experimenting, as it was introduced experimentally, can choose whether machine or the old way to vote. Yeah, 30% of them, or to be more precise about 27%, have chosen the right to vote machine, in the next election will be 60%. But we've given 20% of the sections a chance to have machines, haven't we? Three thousand sections is 25%. Let's see in six thousand, let's see in twelve thousand sections what will happen! Now we're talking about one machine, we're probably going to have to have two machines each, but this thing has to start. There's nothing here but fairy tales in this room, and there's no way that's gonna happen on this stage. There's no one to charge the machines. There's no one who, so many government authorities, even the Central Election Commission, has told you who has to certify it! She also told you where the machines should be stored. The problem was between the first and second rounds how to make the software change and for this thing there are proposals. Just the second round of elections will be in two weeks, not one.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u138	Who proposed this law?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u139	The Central Election Commission, Mr. Lazarov, in the opinion. And you step on the basis of this opinion, which is expert, by the Central Election Commission, which tells us all what to do, in the reasons you quote only this opinion and finally you say that we cancel the engine vote. After a week, you thought a little bit about it and said, "But only for the local elections." But the local elections are the most interesting, they should be tested here. In a local election, maybe with a paper, that's okay. The machine is to ease the difficult, complex vote, where there are mayors, municipal councilors, mayor of the town hall, four choices. This is the goal of the Bulgarian citizens to be relieved. Is there any doubt in this room, and beyond this room, that the machine vote prevents null ballots? I do not believe there is a Bulgarian citizen who thinks the opposite.. that the machine will prevent invalid ballots. 350,000 unsolicited ballots, fellow Members! Do you think that's enough? I guess we have to do something. I'm not gonna talk about who's using at certain times the electoral administrations to manipulate or not the election, so I'm putting it aside. We're talking about whether there should be machines, shouldn't there be, what are the pros, what are the cons. Well, there are no cons, understand. The only minus that is is that you don't want to enter them because you're afraid. What are you afraid of? Let's explain what you're afraid of! Because that's how you've been used to winning elections for ten years. [[GERB lines.]] You can win them another way. I believe that the ruling majority still has some support in society and you will surely earn a necessary number, but why do you fear and deny it? Now let these elections pass, and then we'll think about it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When then?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u140	Please finish your thought, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u141	My proposal is to reject your motion to drop the engine vote and in these elections to go according to the plan that we adopted for three thousand, six thousand, twelve thousand machines so that the Bulgarian citizens would have the freedom to choose and their vote to be evaluated properly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u142	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. To speak, Mr. Stoilov. There's no Mr. Stoilov. I'm sorry. We continue with the last recorded by the group of BSP Mr. Chenchev. Colleagues, you've made a statement. You have the floor, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u143	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Earlier today, from this tribune, I quote, it has been said: "We will do our best to reopen the Election Code after the local elections and look for solutions guaranteeing a transparent electoral process that overcomes imperfections. Dear rulers, what have you done so far? [[GERB lines.]] It's not the opposition, it's the government. And by doing everything you can to search for imperfections, didn't you ever look for them? We've already touched the Election Code a few times, haven't we? These three thousand machines, even you removed them, there were technical errors... Specialists say these mistakes are very far-fetched. Why didn't these three thousand machines stay in the sections where the sectional election committees already have an attempt to handle and work with them? Why didn't you at least leave them? You are consistent in changing your decisions all the time, because they come, perhaps everyone here in this room, we know where the Bank comes from, where your decisions come from, and from there you change them constantly. And something else, expensive were the machines - well, of course they will be expensive to the Bulgarian taxpayer because they are rented out, and their entire cost, the entire value of the machines, if they are purchased, is 20% more than the rent we pay so far. Why is this being done? Is it not indicative that machines are contrary to your understanding of making choices? That's what we think. Once and for all, you had to buy the machines and even more in this room you said in the previous months that there were 50 million provided for the purchase of the machines. But every time, in every debate and now we'll reopen the Election Code again, you do whatever is right for you and whatever is ordered by Bankya. Only people don't buy that anymore. When you are such budget savers, I ask again why are you renting the machines and not buying them, when there is a decision of parliament and with the respective gradation.... three thousand, six thousand, twelve thousand? You're saving from the budget, aren't you? Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Stoilov, did you come? I believe that his absence is a denial of speech. We continue with the next Mr. Ivanov. [[GERB lines.]] After Mr. Ivanov, I close the debate and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members of the National Assembly, today an interesting debate was aroused and the statements that the opposition colleagues spoke from this tribune would have met with support in my face if these wishes and claims had taken place as early as 2015, when they put in place experimentally 50 engine voting sections, that is, 7% of the sections even in Sofia, correct me from the House, so now suddenly, you see, they recognized their new cause to seek the engine vote, then, after a few years, when they no longer have responsibility for holding the elections, when they have no responsibility, naturally, the formulation, so to say, of the selection committees and, naturally, the closure of the elections without the possibility of having doubts about the cassing of the local election. Colleagues, I will ask you the following question: in Sofia, Varna and Plovdiv in the local elections there is a vote for a regional mayor, mayor of the village, mayor of the municipality, municipal council and preferences of municipal councilors. You fellow Members, can you give a pure heart to state that these elections will normally take place both for voters and for the members of the sectional election committees? This vote will take place within the framework of, as you know, on a day of Sunday, October 27th, and within the deadline given on the next date for a possible second round of local elections, November 3rd, do you commit that this will take place normally, that the machine can be certified, that the democratic right to vote of the Bulgarian citizens can be taken into account? You do not commit to this, colleagues, and you did not do so in 2015, when experimentally only in 50 sections was held such a vote by you. And I'll ask again: you say that 27% voted on the machines by those who have the right to carry out this vote in the previous elections for the European Parliament. Well, yes, colleagues, but 75% didn't go to the machines, had the opportunity and preferred the paper bulletin, why don't you talk to them about the minority? That's why you've had such representation in parliament for 12 years. Colleagues, it is very important to listen, except to the voter himself, of which 75% says: "We want a paper vote with the ballot and a pen and also do not listen to the members of the sectional election committees, who said that this has not made it easier to run the election day, it has not made it easier to take into account the results of the citizens' vote and there is real danger, as the Central Election Commission, the Venice Commission and other electoral experts say, that there is a real threat that the preferential vote for municipal lists is not properly taken into account, especially in these local elections, where all colleagues in this Chamber are clearly aware that the voting process is indeed complicated. Therefore, colleagues, you, not taking any responsibility, are going out today, again I say, without any proposal between first and second readings, colleagues, without any suggestion on how to facilitate how to conduct this machine voting? No, you go out with just a few good wishes, you have a legislative initiative, colleagues, and this is already becoming a habit of either veto, and every second vote you go out to fight in the chest, to have said something about how to happen, but without really having an idea how to make it happen! Therefore, those who are responsible for holding the elections are the ruling coalition, we say that we are not eliminating the engine vote! Colleagues, we're not removing it! Stop saying that thing from that tribune, because at least it's not true. We say that, for the upcoming local elections, this vote would endanger my two-rounds in a week. This is, and it is not our call only.. again I say to you, ask the members of the sectional election committees and stop insulting them because you have a quota in these sectional election committees. These are your members, colleagues, these are people who have gone for the funds that will be paid to them by the state to participate in the sectional election committees or because of the idea which they hold political. They've gone to help hold elections. So don't reproach them, but thank them on the contrary. All Bulgarian citizens should thank the members of the sectional election committees who are engaged, you know, the electoral process in Bulgaria thanks to and largely to everyone in this House becomes more complex rather than easier. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Your proposal last time was to remove the second protocol, which you committed to and said the elections were almost faked...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u146	Please finish your thought, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u147	Let me finish my sentence. The idea is, colleagues, that you lost the election again. Do not seek indulgence in the machines for losing you in the upcoming local elections. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u148	I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. [[Replicates from "BSP for Bulgaria": "Replicates!"]] A line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. Then Mr. Chenchev and Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, you say that you are responsible, that it is up to you, that you are responsible and that is why you are doing it. How do you think you're being held responsible? By breaking laws? Last week, you took responsibility for the toll system by putting it off for six months. Now you take responsibility for the engine vote by putting it off for the next election. That's no responsibility! Responsibility is carried out by actions, not by omissions. You say we don't cancel the engine vote, but look at the text you proposed: no engine vote is being held. The word "no" means cancellation, if you remove the syllable "no" and remain the "no" is held, then you really take responsibility. You say the Bulgarian citizens the other 75%, well that's right, 27% the first time in three thousand machines used the right to vote. Give the others a chance! Again, I'm saying, what's more normal in complicated choices to use the machine? That is exactly what she will do. Sophia, don't give her to me as an example! Sofia is your emblem of how no elections are made. Local elections are an emblem of how no elections are made. In 2014 you bring us back, but now it's 2019 you're driving forward, you're not driving backwards! We're not going back to 3555 machines, and we're going forward about 6,000, 12,000 machines! You're saying we haven't made any suggestions? But it's in the law, the law is in effect. What law should we change? The law says: 6,000 machines. And you're changing it. What are we supposed to do, offer $7,000? No, we're just against canceling those 6,000 machines. And that's what we've been talking about for two hours and no one hears us in this room, no one gets to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the Venice Commission also says not to touch the electoral code six months before elections, but you are touching and not for the first time. Apart from that, you are insincere in what you say, at least because your party has refused to elect a new central election commission, your party! And for that reason you were late and certification of the machines. Is that right? That's right. And this shows your intrusiveness in your claims and, of course, the wanderings and wanderings that happen all the time according to the instructions of the Bank to change your decisions something in which you are consistent and cannot be denied. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u152	Mrs. Klisurska, you're giving up your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you are talking about the honesty of the local vote. How you guaranteed it 2015. With invalid ballots, corrected protocols, open sacks, 80 cases in YOU? That's your warranty? You're saying the machine vote won't guarantee an honest choice? No, he'll guarantee it! Because there are no invalid protocols! You either vote there or you don't vote. And to vote, you need to read, you need to be able to read who you're voting for.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u154	[[GERB, from place]] And who can't read?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u155	Well, he's not gonna vote who can't read! And here we can't vote with the number of hands, you can't give 50 leva, you can't go and say, "Vote for this one to get your vote out." [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So the engine vote guarantees a fair choice because... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] How are you going to get your ballot taken before the Commission? That's not gonna happen! Are you afraid of an honest vote? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Are you afraid to vote honestly and hold elections honestly so that there are no invalid ballots so that there are no corrected protocols? [[Noise and lines from GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines! In the order of tricks. Mr. Svilenski, Political Party GERB bears its responsibility with resignations, which it does not withdraw back. [[Applause from GERB.]] Also the biggest trust given by Bulgarian citizens and they give it to the political party GERB in 12 years! I regret that you cannot qualify to beat in elections, but with ideas and consistent policies Political Party GERB is the first political force. I'm sorry! That's obviously making you very sad. Mr. Chenchev, three months before the elections 2014 who changed the Election Code, but completely? All of it! Your political party and your political power. Be honest and honest when you are on this stage!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u158	And ombudsman Maya Manolova!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u159	And the current ombudsman yes. Thank you for reminding me from the gym, but, uh, let me just say this. Mrs. Siderova, you're insulting the members of the sectional election committees that I'm targeting are also members broadcast by your political party! What trainings have you conducted, how you convinced them, with what manipulations, apparently, you are trying to convince them of the vote or to ruin their elections, is your job. However, it made another impression to me that you are very closely aware and in detail of how elections are corrupted. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So, you really need the Central Election Commission to listen to you not corrupt the elections, take an example from you. Because you've expressed all the dirty practices from this tribune. Therefore, if you have such signals, I urge you to give them to the Prosecutor's Office, because it is the duty of every MP in the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let me tell you again, guys. I'll tell you again! Do not seek indulgence for the loss of the upcoming local elections. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. That's how we ended the speeches. I'm closing the debate this time. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Kutev, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There have already been several talks about this, can the National Assembly end the debate at second reading? I don't think they can for the simple reason that art. 84, para. 3 says that the Member of the National Assembly may justify proposals made within five minutes of each proposal. That's my right! When you end the debate in this way, this right of mine is lost, that is, the Rules in this case, in my opinion, are violated. We also have the order of art. 62, which talks about how procedural proposals are made. It is said that they are voted immediately except in cases in para. 2 is said to be without prejudice to the rights of the parliamentary groups under art. 58, which is the same thing. For me, purely legally, we have at least two problems in the Rules of Procedure with the termination of the debates during the second reading, while there are those who wish to speak. In this regard, I would like to say that this is also a violation of parliamentary practice. Parliament exists to debate. And that you are a majority, you can make the proposal before the debate begins! The very fact that you are stopping the debate is already a violation of parliamentary practice. Of course, you can do it because you're a majority. However, this will neither lead to better governance nor to a better parliament. In relation to which, Mr President, I urge you from now on not to do so. Let us not violate the Rules and Rights of the Members of the National Assembly, because even if you find it annoying to hear another half hour some reasoning from poor MPs from the opposition, it is part of the structure of the state and parliament! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. You correctly quoted the Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to tell you that you are not deprived of the right to speak and to make proposals, because I have the list of speeches from your parliamentary group. Your name isn't there. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I therefore believe that since you have not stated to the leadership of the group a wish to speak, you have no desire to speak. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand, and I'll respect that. That's where we end up. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of MP Hamid Hamid and a group of MPs. Vote 198 MPs: 83, against 62, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. Voted 199 MPs: 129, against 69, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, come in, you have the floor, Mr Nedyalkov. Second negative vote, Mrs. Klisurska. You spoke, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I cannot fail to take the negative vote procedure, because then the vote does not make it clear to me how we will explain a phenomenon. There's a colleague here who's very familiar with the fact that I'm about to say. In one of the sections in the town of Lukovit is not Sofia, it is not Varna, it is not just where you are, there was a machine. The machine over there was rejected by the engine vote, there wasn't a single vote on the machine. The results are great! The results are outstanding! However, I would like to touch only a few in them. Eighteen percent invalid ballots in the section. And in the local vote 2015, when there were no machines again, and when the vote is very well expressed, the invalids are 25 per cent of the ballots are invalid. One quarter! If we strive to do so, yes, this is the way. I want to tell you that everything is programmed there. In the last European elections, there is one candidate who gets the most preferences. It's for reading. Well, that's why we're here for the engine vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u164	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]] Mr. Popov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I voted against this bill. I don't want to repeat the thousands of motives and arguments here again. I will tell you what you have just voted for, and I will read you the text: After the general elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2019, the machine voting is produced only in elections for MPs, elections for President and Vice President of the Republic and elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, and in these elections. Who are they, ladies and gentlemen of those who are in these elections? Who are these elections? Could this be a text from a law, from the Election Code? You just voted him out! The fact is, you don't know what you voted for, but you just, like, voted for it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u166	Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov stands on the stand.]] Mr. Ivanov, you take your own word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u167	Negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]] The third negative vote is mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u168	Did you hear your name from me?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u169	I don't understand what you're saying. Three negative votes have the group. I won't...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u170	Right, I'm not denying it. Did you hear your name from me that you got the floor? Did you want my word? Did you get it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u171	Of course, I gave a hand, a signal that I wanted the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u172	Now I give you my word. Explain the negative vote. [[(Applause from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u173	Mr. Chairman, I am surprised by your concern that I will take the floor, but I will still take it. [[Noise and lines.]] I haven't spoken today, but it will give me an additional incentive to be more active until the end, obviously. Dear Mr. President, I voted against it, because representatives of your parliamentary group, namely the GERB group, do not know when they are being very passionate when Mrs. Daritkova came out here this morning and asked for consensus on the subject, or when you have finally crushed the engine vote? [[Noise and lines.]] I voted against it because you have been moving the process legislatively in this direction for months. Firstly, you have made it possible for the Central Election Commission to create the maximum chaos in the use of voting machines, to push Bulgarian citizens away from using them, which is why there are 27%. To the last, the members of the sectional committees did not know what they were for and how to use them precisely because of your persistence. You're using this thing to date as a motive and to completely reject it! Ladies and gentlemen of government, this is not the way to gain the trust of Bulgarian citizens. I understand that you want to win the local elections at all costs, but this is not the way. You'd better get out there and tell me which mayors of yours are gonna fall and they're not gonna run and who they're gonna run for. [[noise and lines]] You tried to smuggle counterfeit ballots so those machines wouldn't be there. Let's hear here your ethics committee who will strike instead of explaining to us how these machines were useless and how they would not contribute anything to the correctness of the vote of Bulgarian citizens! On the contrary, these machines would have been useful, but they're not for you, obviously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u174	Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u175	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u176	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the subdivision and the text of the importer for § 2. They voted 183 MPs: 124, against 59, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR WATERS. It was introduced by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to brief us on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that Mr. Lachezar Borisov be admitted to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Mr. Valentin Gruev, Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation at the Ministry of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u178	I'm voting for admission in this Chamber. They voted 133 MPs: 25, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u179	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act No 954 01-45, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Nenkov, Emil Hristov, Tanner Ali, Georgi Kolev and Plamen Hristov on 21 June 2019, adopted at the first vote on 3 July 2019. The draft for the second vote. The Law on Waters is amended and supplemented by the Law on Waters and Waters, and the Law on Waters is amended and supplemented by the Law on Waters and Waters. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u180	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u181	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), The public state ownership is also the dams transferred free of charge by the municipalities of the State under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u182	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u183	Under § 2, there is a proposal of the MP Ivelina Vassileva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 19a and Art. 19a. (1) The right to property on a public municipal dam may be transferred free of charge to the State under the terms and conditions of this law following a decision of the municipal council. (2) The right of ownership of the dam shall not be transferred to public municipal property granted to a concession. (3) The decision under para. 1 shall be accepted by the municipal council on a reasoned proposal from the mayor of the municipality. On the basis of the decision of the municipal council, the mayor of the municipality submitted to the district governor a reasoned proposal for a change of ownership of the dam. The proposal shall be accompanied by the decision of the municipal council and the act of municipal property for the dam subject to the decision. A copy of the documents shall also be sent to the Minister of Economy. Art. 196. (1) The district governor shall rule by order of acceptance or refusal of the donation within one month of receipt of the decision of the municipal council with the documents attached to it and shall inform the mayor of the municipality, the executive director of the state enterprise "Management and management of dams" and the Minister of Economy. (2) The transfer of ownership shall be carried out through a donation contract concluded between the mayor of the municipality whose ownership is the dam and the governor of the district. The contract between the district governor and the mayor of the municipality shall be concluded within 14 days of notification under para. 1. A copy of the entered contract shall be made available to the Executive Director of the State Enterprise. (3) For a dam transferred free of charge to the State, the governor shall draw up an act of public government property with public management rights granted to the State-owned enterprise. (4) After the entry of the act, the district governor shall provide copies according to art. 70, para. 1 of the State Property Act. (5) The governor shall refuse by order to accept the donation and return the proposal and accompanying file to the municipality concerned where: 1.The water site requested for transfer from the municipality is not a dam under § 1, para. 1, t. 94 of the additional provisions, or 2. the proposal concerns a dam dedicated to a concession, or 3. There is no act of municipal property. (6) The order under para. 5 shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code within 14 days of the notification of the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u184	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u185	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The persons referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4 must possess what is necessary to carry out the activities under para. 3 professional qualifications, with at least one of them having to have a higher education with a degree of education and qualification in one of the specialties of the professional field of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy, related to the design, construction and operation of dams and facilities to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u186	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u187	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act in § 33 of the Final Provisions, a dash is placed after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u188	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 4 and 5, supported by the Commission, and the creation of a new § 6. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u189	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... (1) Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Economy shall provide the respective governor with the proposals of the mayors of municipalities to change the ownership of the dams until its entry into force after a decision of the respective municipal council to transfer ownership to the State free of charge. (2) For the proposals under para. 1 The governor shall apply Art. 196.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u190	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the division and the version of § 6 of the Commission Report, which shall become § 7. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u191	Proposal of the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions Paragraph 6a is set up: 6a. Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency shall carry out an inspection and shall take the necessary official action to bring the cadastral maps and the cadastral registers of the dams of public state and public municipal property into effect. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u192	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal concerns: within one calendar year, the Cadastral Agency is obliged to carry out checks on cadastral maps and cadastral registers on water sites. I will start from the fact that we support the concept of the Law to the extent that we support its idea and spirit. We all know that the Cadastral Rules of Procedure of the Cadastral Agency are in place. I'll refer to Art. 15, p. 11: The transferred map of the restored property and cadastral registers shall be fully controlled by the Agency. That is, the idea is this: we all know how agricultural land is restored during the years at the beginning of the transition, namely that in most part, not to say over 80% of the map of the restored property or the so-called KDS are wrong. Here comes the problem that the geospatial form of water objects, namely the dimensions and all the other parameters, multiplying the error over the years, everything we will do, that is, the transfer of ownership, the way of transfer, the areas, will not be correct. They won't be correct, and all these water objects will be wrongly imported into the new company that is being formed. That's just one part of the question. We need the Cadastral Agency to check these cadastral maps. By the way, 81% of the country's territory is already covered by cadastral maps.. you can imagine what a mistake we are talking about. So at least because of the water objects, because of the fact that I am not negative that we constantly see the tragedies with broken dams and the lack of adequate coverage of river beds. We need you to back us up. It may be necessary to extend the deadline, but as an idea, as a concept, I think you should support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u194	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. - What's the line? There is a statement here, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! In a few words, I would like to motivate the Commission's opinion, which was negative with regard to this proposal. I would like to make it clear that we are, to a large extent, talking about a technical opinion and not so political. That is, we agree with the idea that BSP colleagues offer, but there are a number of technical nonsense, I would call them, which will hinder the implementation of this provision. First of all, I would like to explain that the cadastral map is supported by the Cadastral Agency, but the data that are entered in it are at the initiative of the owner or of a person who is authorized by law. In other words, the Cadastral Agency has neither authority nor the ability to literally go around the dams to do an inspection, which is another obligation that we are trying to insert with this text, to do official filming and application in cadastral maps. This should be done by the owner, and in this case we are already entering into a discussion about which owner. Since we know that the idea is to transfer dams to the State, the state can be represented by several persons, respectively. Therefore, our idea is to postpone the adoption of this text with the clear awareness that an expanded working group will have to be made to include both the experts of several ministries and the representatives of all the state authorities who are currently dealing with the problem of dams in order to be able to make a meaningful, working text to be implemented effectively. Otherwise, we strongly agree that the dams should enter the cadastral map. We know that the cadastral map provides much more information than the so-called map of the restored property. Information which, however, needs to be obtained by expert means and not by the personnel of the Cadastre Agency, because, apart from digital information, there is also text information that gives the technical parameters of the facilities which technical parameters cannot be described by the Agency's staff. This is done by law-abiding people who film so-called legal filming and separate from hydromeliorations experts who can give the technical parameters, even if you will, and the physical boundaries of the dams, as you know they are variables. Our proposal is to reject this text with the clear attitude that, with colleagues from both BSP and the ministries, we will sit together and we will come up with a reasonable text that will be submitted subsequently.........................................is changes to the Cadastrian Act..................... At the very least, there are no problems with the time limits, as this is subject to delay We'll have plenty of time to think about the text and accept it so it works. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Shishkov, I absolutely agree with the Cadastral Cards again, the Cadastral Card reflects ownership and the graphical form of ownership. These are two of the main parts of the cadastral map. So far, we have no argument. Our argument is as follows. I absolutely agree that the owner must make the requested amendment. The idea is the municipality, transferring it to the district governor, and the subsequent transfers to be done by checking by the Cadastral Agency. The discrepancies no one says will not be carried out by the owners. The so-called procedures for manifest error are known in how the dams are rebuilt properties, we all know that there are dams that are on the border of three districts. Severe, complex procedures that need to be done, I think now is the time. It is good that you commit to a deadline to make a working group. I hope that everything you've said and that you're rejecting our proposal is not stubborn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u198	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Genov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u199	Mr. Shishkov, I see the positivism you're asking. You've identified a lot of technical problems, but this hot potato is still hanging in the air. Everyone is running away from responsibility and does not want to do a really small amount of technical work, so that all these discrepancies that we have been talking about here are resolved over time. Indeed, the problem of technicality is becoming political because such a solution wants political will to be done. As we can see, in the years, no one has had the courage and the will to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Professor Bachvarova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u201	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Shishkov, I remember the previous parliament when the Law on Cadastral and Property Register was changed and there, respectively, all the information on the map of the restored property was transferred to the Cadastral with the clear awareness that there are extremely many errors. They are a fact, provided that at present you have about 3700 cadastral maps based on the map of the restored property with errors from 60 to 70%. This process will be over by the end of the year because we are accelerating the pace with which we are doing it. That is, you with the awareness that there are mistakes that go to the new owner, they must fight the consequences of these mistakes. I'm sorry to say this, but the fact that the Law was then granted a recovery procedure led to the negative consequences that these errors should be in some form reduced or reduced. What is the point of this haste to transfer dams to this enterprise, provided that we will spare another, two or three years so that we can correct these errors and that this undertaking knows the assets at its disposal?! I can't figure out exactly what we're doing, provided the error is multiplied further? I would very much like to note, however, that the Cadastral Agency is a state structure. What do you mean, there's no capacity, what does no funding mean, no opportunities? This somehow seems extremely illogical to me that the municipality should go on state property and not be able to realise it in a way in which to properly offer these cadastral maps. Therefore, our proposal is an option to resolve the issues before the physical transfer of this property to the company being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u202	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. A hole, Mr. Shishkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! You've asked a lot of questions, they're really interesting and they're up-to-date. I don't know if I'm gonna be able to answer them in the back. Professor Bachvarova, the rush is not so much that there are problems in KBC (the map of the restored property) and the cadastral map. We all know the reason for the hurry. We have seen a lot of accidents over the last few years. It is no accident that the Water Act was changed precisely in this direction so that municipalities, which are unable to maintain and adequately exploit their water facilities, could provide them to the State which will determine some financial resources for maintenance and operation. Yes, I agree that there is a multiplication of errors. Therefore, it is no accident that I said that we absolutely agree that actual photographs of water facilities should be made and placed in the cadastral map with all the technical indicators and parameters that are necessary for this. That is why we are open for debate and for new proposals to amend the Law, but not with what you are proposing. Mr. Bonev, yes, the Agency can check, but she can only do a documentary check, unfortunately. The field check is done by other experts. This I think is very clear to you as well as Professor Bachvarova. Just because it's a state agency doesn't mean it can take care of all the problems that happen in the state. It has exactly certain powers and obligations. They are written in the Law. From then on there are three other institutions, even four with the district governors who concern the management and management of the dams. So a question of debate is which of these institutions should be assigned such obligations. But there is something much more important that has been missed that this text has been proposed between the first and second votes and has not been given a good enough economic analysis. It is clear to everyone that such a change will result in much more funds to be allocated in the state.. The filming itself costs some money, and not a little. These funds must be provided for in the budget, to be transferred to the European Parliament and to the Council, depending on which authority we decide in order for it to have them and to assign competent persons to make these measurements. So it is good to consider the texts and get opinions from both the interested party and the Finance Ministry on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Manol Genov and a group of MPs. They voted 112 MPs: 38, against 40, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u205	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be § 9. A proposal from the MP Maria Belova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on State Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 15 is created. 7. seven. Property-public government property under art. 13, para. 2 of the Water Act, granted for management of the State Enterprise Management and Management of Dams, can be granted free of charge for management by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests of Irrigation Associations registered under the Law on Irrigation Associations, under conditions and under the terms laid down by the Rules for Implementation of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 6, which shall enter into force on 7 July 2018. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u206	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7 and 8, which shall become 8 and 9, respectively, the creation of a new § 10 and the version of § 9, which shall become § 11 of the Commission Report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the Law. Moving on to next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u207	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mrs Amelia Gesheva to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u208	Please vote on admission in this Chamber. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u209	The Law on Cultural Heritage is amended and supplemented by the Law on Cultural Heritage. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u210	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u211	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dora Yankova: A new §... shall be created: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 4 t. 1 the words "up to 10 years' shall be replaced by "up to 20 years'. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u212	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u213	Madam President, honourable Members! We propose that the proposal be supported without amendment. Currently there are two types of legal basis for a municipality to manage an archaeological reserve and traditionally with documents under the old law, which has been repealed. The provision of municipalities for management is limited in time to 10 years. Planning in the Conservation and Management Plan cannot be restricted in such a short period. The rights and obligations of the municipalities to the reserves provided to them are refined in a contract. In essence, we have a concession from the owner of the State to the public state institution. In this type of dedication, the municipality has no power to plan for long-term planning. Other municipalities hold archaeological reserves with documentation under the old law because these problems are not settled in the new one. They do not have any powers, because a large part of these documents on the new one are already in conflict. The construction and implementation of archaeological reserves as exclusive state property should be carried out by the owner through the Ministry of Culture. However, the Ministry has neither funding nor structures nor personnel collateral for this. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Ivan Chenchev and Ms. Dora Yankova. They voted 87 MPs: 27, Against 41, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u215	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following 1. In para. 2 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." documents certifying the availability of the requirements under art. 25, para. 1, t. 1? 4: (a) a plan of the building for museums with designated exposition spaces, stock storage facilities, sanitary facilities for staff and visitors, working premises and laboratory; (b) the presence of signalling equipment, fire alarm system and fire safety means; (c) draft budget for the maintenance of the building and staff and funds for search, study, conservation and presentation of movable cultural values and natural models; (d) a list of museum posts with the necessary qualifications under the classification under art. 37, para. 2. 2. A new para is being created. 3 and 4: The documents referred to in paragraph 3 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2, p. 4 certifying the requirement under art. 25, para. 1, t. 1 shall be verified in a professional manner, indicating the name of the museum which has carried out the identification of the cultural values and numbers and the date of the certificate under art. 98, para. 3. (4) The applicant shall be notified in writing when finding irregularities or incompleteness in the documents, providing him with a period of 10 working days for the removal of irregularities or incompleteness with an indication that the production will be terminated. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it the word "three months' shall be replaced by "monthly' and the word "motivated' shall be replaced by a reasoned order. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it, the words "receipt from" shall be replaced by "receiving" by a motivated order of "receiving." 5. The creation of para. 7. The acts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u216	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I welcome the idea in the new bill to be put on clear regulations for certification of new museums. As mentioned by the Report, these are the plans of the museum building, the presence of alarm and security equipment, the safety system, the budget and staff project, the list of museum posts and the necessary qualifications for this. Personally, however, I am surprised by the reduced time limits in which irregularities should be removed in the absence of such in the documentation. I believe that the time limit of 10 working days is too short to be able to remove them. However, we are talking about documentation, about permits, not to mention that the qualified posts of museum workers are not so popular in Bulgaria. Imagine a hypothetical situation in which you have found such a person who has the necessary qualifications, but at the last moment for some reason or because of his hiring from your competitors, this person does not take this position. I don't think 10 working days is enough for you to find a worthy replacement for someone you've previously designated for this. In my opinion, the normal time limit for removing these irregularities in the documentation should be at least one month. I think that we will then satisfy, or rather be fair to the people who are hired with the responsible task of preserving cultural and historical heritage and discovering such museums. Bulgaria is one of the three countries in Europe with the richest cultural ancient heritage and I think it would really be a good direction for the National Assembly, its activities in this law if it were extended this period. We, as we see in the following paragraphs, are mentioned twice more in this 10-day period, this is clearly some kind of philosophy model of the Ministry of Culture, which seeks to shorten the time limits within which to issue the relevant permits. However, this should not be in any way at the expense of meeting the requirements or creating more difficulties for people who are engaged in cultural heritage to be able to meet the requirements of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. - What's the line? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u219	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dora Yankova: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 3 after the words The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u220	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u221	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal is also consulted with the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria. They gave a positive opinion in this direction, attended separately to the Committee on Culture and Media, where they reaffirmed their expertise, namely one of the main problems of architectural real cultural values are unsupported and crumbling facades. We all know about this problem in the country. The provisions in force under art. 72, para. 3 does not allow the mayor of the municipality or an official authorised by him and the regional cultural heritage protection inspectorate to give prescriptions for temporary conservation measures to preserve the facades until the main restoration works are carried out. The text of the temporary reinforcement is understood as interference with the construction of buildings. The proposal aims to specify the scope of the emergency intervention instructions in accordance with art. 72 and allow the municipal administration to actively participate in the preservation of architectural heritage.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u222	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Do we have any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Dora Yankova. Vote 97 MPs: 41, against 44, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u223	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev and the National Representative Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence of the third sentence of the Union is replaced by a comma and finally added to the corresponding municipal administration. 2. The creation of para. 7. The contracting authority of the activities under para. 1 is required to notify the municipality in writing of the location of the site, the Ministry of Culture and NINKN for: 1. beginning of implementation; 2. completion of the implementation within 10 days of completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u224	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 2 and 3, supported by the Commission and the creation of a new § 4. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u225	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: § 7. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 167a " 167e: Art. 167a. (1) For the issue of an authorisation under art. 167, para. 1 an application shall be submitted to the Minister of Culture, in writing or by electronic means, by a model according to the ordinance under art. 168. Where the application is submitted electronically, the requirements of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services shall be complied with and the documents shall be applied in the form of scanned copies signed by electronic signature. (2) To the application under para. 1 shall apply: 1. draft contract for carrying out conservation and restoration activities of the movable cultural value; 2. transceiver-acceptance protocol; 3. a constant protocol, accompanied by detailed photo-documentation of the state of the cultural value at its acceptance; 4. project for conservation-restation intervention; 5. plan-account for activities; 6. information proving the necessary conditions for carrying out the activity in a laboratory or workshop. Art. 167b. (1) The application under art. 167a, para. 1 with the documents attached to it shall be dealt with within 14 days of its entry by the Specialized Expert Council under art. 177b, para. 1. (2) Where the application and the documents attached thereto do not comply with the requirements, the applicant shall be notified in writing to remove irregularities or incompletes within 10 working days of the communication indicating that the proceedings will be terminated upon their termination. (3) The term referred to in art. 167, para. 2 begin to run after the removal of irregularities or incompleteness. (4) In the event of non-alignment of irregularities or incompleteness within the term under para. 2 The proceedings under the application lodged shall be terminated. (5) After the examination of the submitted documents, the Specialized Expert Council under art. 177b, para. 1 draw up a reasoned opinion with a proposal to the Minister of Culture for the issue or refusal of authorisation. Art. 167c. The Minister of Culture with a reasoned order shall refuse authorisation in cases where: 1. the applicant's request is contrary to the objectives of this law; 2. carrying out conservation-restation activities will violate the conditions for maintaining the optimal regime for the preservation of the cultural value and/or may lead to its physical damage. Art. 167. The authorisation issued shall be withdrawn by a reasoned order from the Minister of Culture in the event of detected violations of this law on a proposal from the Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Art. 167e. The acts referred to in art. 167c and 167d are subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u226	And §7 for the last time.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u227	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u228	Please come in for a statement. Mr. Chenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u229	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, my speech is under § 5. The presence of a laboratory does not mean that the museum has the capacity to perform all types of restoration and conservation activities, and that of objects of all kinds of materials. As far as there is no establishment plan for the composition and capacity of laboratories, they usually do not have a complete set of experts. The process of deciding which movable cultural values are preserved and restored and whether this is done in the museum laboratory or by an external contractor is the management decision of the museum director. The procedures and functions of the Director in carrying out this activity should be refined and the Regulation on the work of museums in the country issued by the Minister of Culture should be completed so far. This can also happen with the extension of § 5 in the prepared new, complete version of the Cultural Heritage Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-24.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5 and shall be supported by the Commission; the text of the importer for § 5, which shall also be supported by the Commission; the version of § 6, which shall become § 7 of the Commission Report and the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8, supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 74, none, abstention 27. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, the next paragraph is quite long to read and we will enter long after 2:00 p.m., so due to running out of time, I am closing today's session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
