ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, the first item of today's agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL REPRESENTATIONS. Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs were introduced on 15 May 2019. The report of the Committee on Health will be presented to us by the President of the Commission Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u2	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Dr. Boyko Penkov to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u3	Please vote on the procedure made by Dr. Daritkova for the admission of Deputy Minister Boyko Penkov. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite Deputy Minister Penkov. Dr. Daritkova, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 954-01-34, submitted by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2019. At its extraordinary meeting held on 16 May 2019, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 954 01-34, submitted by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by one of the contributors Dr. Lachezar Ivanov. He informed the MPs that the proposed amendment and supplement of the Law on Medical Institutions aims to ensure the implementation of constitutionally proclaimed in art. 52 a right of citizens to accessible medical care and the performance of the function of the State for the protection of citizens' health. In accordance with art. 13, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 14, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, individual and group practice for primary medical care is organized and carried out by a doctor with a recognised specialty in general medicine who is registered in the relevant regional health inspection. The provision has been adopted in accordance with art. 29, § 1 of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications governing the right to the exercise of professional activities by general practitioners. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14a of the Law on Medical Institutions is explicitly stated that the right to organize and implement individual or group practice for primary medical care after registration under art. 40 have doctors also accepted for training to acquire the specialty. This provision fully corresponds to the legal possibility provided for in § 2 of art. 29 of Directive 2005/36/EC, under which Member States may exempt from the requirement of an acquired specialty in general medicine persons who currently specialise in the General Medicine. The provisions in force of § 4 and § 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Act supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions (OJ, p. 47, 2014) They clearly point out that doctors operating as individual or group practice for primary medical care who do not have a specialty of general medicine are obliged to acquire a specialty by 3 June 2019. Prof. Ivanov explained that according to the data of regional health inspections, the number of doctors operating as an individual practice for primary medical care who have not acquired a specialty of general medicine and whose registration is subject to deletion after 3 June 2019 due to the expiry of the statutory period is 568. Doctors operating as a group practice for primary medical care who have not acquired a specialty of general medicine and whose registration is subject to deletion after 3 June 2019 are in total 105. He stressed that not a small part of the general practitioners are having difficulty in fulfilling the requirement to acquire a specialty of general medicine in the period prescribed by the law, as they are required to be absent from their practice of the time of study and are faced with the inability to find a replacement in the practice of the time of absence. This problem is most common in practices of general practitioners in remote and difficult areas, which is why these doctors are objectively difficult to conduct their training to acquire a specialty of general medicine within the deadlines. The proposed changes aim to prevent the closure of a large number of primary medical practice, especially in remote and difficult areas, and to ensure the access of the population to primary medical care. The Law proposes that doctors who have not acquired a specialty by 3 June 2019, but have started training to acquire this specialty, continue to carry out activities as an individual or group practice of primary medical care for a period of four years from the entry into force of the Law. It is also proposed that an extension of the period for doctors who, until 3 June 2019, have not been assigned to acquire a specialty in general medicine may continue to work as an individual or group practice for primary medical care for a period of four years from the entry into force of this law, provided that they begin training for the acquisition of a major in general medicine within one year from the entry into force of the Law. In conclusion, Associate Professor Ivanov pointed out that if the proposed regulatory changes are not adopted in a timely manner, a significant number of primary medical practice will be closed, which will result in limiting the access of most of the population to primary medical care, including in difficult and remote areas. The Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov expressed support for the draft under consideration, offering an extension of the period for acquiring a specialty of 4 years of General Medicine, and within this period doctors will be able to continue to carry out activities as individual or group practice for primary medical care. He thanked the importers for the legislative initiative and clarified that the adoption of the proposed legislative changes will ensure timely and accessible primary medical assistance to Bulgarian citizens. During the discussion, the members of the Committee on Health unanimously supported the presented bill and noted that due to the social significance of the problem the changes should be adopted as soon as possible. On the basis of the discussion and the vote on results held: the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 954 01-34, submitted by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u5	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. The bill will be presented to us by Associate Professor Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u6	Mrs. Chairman! The Law proposes amendment and supplement of the Law on Medical Institutions in order to ensure the implementation of constitutionally proclaimed in art. 52 a right of citizens to access medical care and to perform the function of the State for the protection of citizens' health. The current provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Act supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions clearly state that doctors operating as individual or group practice for primary medical care who do not possess a specialty of general medicine are obliged to acquire a specialty by 3 June 2019. Following a detailed consultation on the basis of the data provided by regional health inspections, it is found that the number of doctors operating as an individual practice for primary medical care who have not acquired the specialty of General Medicine and whose registration is subject to deletion after 3 June 2019 due to the expiry of the statutory period is a total of 568. Doctors operating as a group practice for primary medical care who have not acquired a specialty of general medicine and whose registration is subject to deletion after 3 June 2019 are in total 105. The total number of doctors whose registration should be deleted after 3 June 2019 shall be 673. Despite the data cited, it should be borne in mind that in May 2019 there is a state examination session for a specialty examination to which 123 residents of the General Medicine are admitted. I would like to point out that not a small part of the general practitioners are experiencing difficulty in fulfilling the requirement to acquire a specialty of general medicine at the time prescribed by the law, as they are required to be absent from their practice of the time of study and are faced with the inability to find a replacement in the practice of their absence. This problem is most common in practices of general practitioners in remote and difficult areas, which is why these doctors are usually difficult to carry out their training to acquire a specialty of general medicine within the time frame. The Law proposes that doctors who have not acquired a specialty by 3 June 2019, but have started training to acquire this specialty, continue to carry out activities as an individual or group practice of primary medical care for a period of four years from the entry into force of the Law. It is envisaged that after the expiry of the 4 year period the registration in the relevant regional health inspection of doctors who have not acquired a specialty of general medicine should be deleted. It is also proposed that an extension of the period for doctors who, until 3 June 2019, were not assigned to acquire a specialty of general medicine, could continue to work as an individual or group practice for primary medical care for a period of four years from the entry into force of this law, provided that they were assigned to acquire a specialty of general medicine within one year from the entry into force of the Law. The registration in the relevant regional health inspection of doctors who have not started training to acquire a specialty is envisaged to be deleted within the one-year period. The aim of the proposed changes is to prevent the closure of a large number of practices for primary medical care, especially in remote and difficult areas, with the adoption of the legislative initiative guaranteeing the access of the population to primary medical care and fulfilling the responsibility of the state for providing accessible medical services to all Bulgarian citizens. The Bill proposes to remove legal and technical deficiencies that have been made under the latest amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Institutions. To conclude, I would like to stress that if we do not adopt in an urgent manner the legislative changes we have proposed, a significant number of primary medical practice will be closed, which will result in a reduction of the access of a large proportion of the population to primary medical care, including in difficult and remote areas.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u7	Thank you, Associate Professor Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Institutions, No 954-01-34, submitted by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2019. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Dr. Daritkova has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, in relation to the unanimous vote on the Draft and the lack of proposals for amendment or supplement to the Bill during its discussion, I propose that the first and second voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medical Institutions, No 954 01-34, submitted by Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs on 15 May 2019 be held in one meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u9	We are voting on this procedure. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u10	The Law on Medical Institutions is amended and supplemented by the Law on Medical Institutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u11	Statements? I can't see. We vote on the name of the Law. They voted 91 MPs: for 91 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u12	................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following 1. In para. 4 after the word "supplier" is added "for compliance". 2. In para. 7 sentence first, the first sentence is added, and the certificate of conformity is issued. 3. In para. The first sentence shall be added at the end and shall issue the certificate of conformity. 4. In para. 9 sentence second words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 5. In para. 10 words under Art. 48, para. The period of 20 days referred to in paragraph 1 (a) shall be replaced by the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 1. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u14	..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the 1. In para. 2 sentence first the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. In para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u15	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 2. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u16	.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The second sentence of Article 73 shall be referred to the requirements of Article 73. 48, para. Article 4 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: 48, para. 3 of the Law on Higher Education
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u17	Statements? I can't see. I shall put it to the vote § 3. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u18	............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 105, para. 2 the words "movements" and "movements" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u19	Statements? I can't see. I shall put it to the vote § 4. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u20	"Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u21	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u22	.................................................................................. (1) Doctors who, until 3 June 2019, have not acquired a degree in general medicine but who have started training to acquire this specialty may continue to carry out activities as an individual or group practice of primary medical care for a period of 4 years from the entry into force of this law. (2) After the expiry of the 4-year term under para. 1 Registration in the relevant regional health inspection of doctors under para. 1 which have not acquired the specialty of general medicine is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 5. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u24	........................................................... (1) Doctors who, until 3 June 2019, have not started training for the acquisition of a major in General Medicine may continue to carry out activities as an individual or group practice for primary medical care for a period of 4 years from the entry into force of this law, provided that they start training for the acquisition of a major in General Medicine within one year from the entry into force of this law. (2) After the expiry of the one-year term under para. 1 Registration in the relevant regional health inspection of doctors who have not started training to acquire a specialty
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u25	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 6. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u26	.................................................... The provisions of § 5 and 6 shall not apply to doctors operating as an individual or group practice for primary medical care under the terms of § 95 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act (Art. 41, 2009) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u27	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 7. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u28	................................................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 4 June
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u29	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 8. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. That was the last bill today. We continue with parliamentary control at 11:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u30	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Today, Friday, 17 May 2019, the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov and Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer questions. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate. There are no new requests for the period from 10 May to 16 May 2019. There are two written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev............................................................................................................. and will satisfy you................................................................................................................................ - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Stanislava Stoyanova, Claudia Gancheva and Stanislav Stoyanov. We continue with a question from the National Representative Manoil Manev to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov about telephone fraud. You have the floor to ask your question, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u31	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Mr. Minister, colleagues! In recent years, we have seen a growing trend in the execution of telephone frauds, which systematically rob mostly elderly people, people at risk age. This type of abuse has direct and indirect consequences, causing enormous damage not only to specific people, families, they are a scourge to our entire society. Bitch, because they take the last collected and stashed money of the elderly people our parents, grandmothers, grandfathers. This brings great social damage to the response of these extremely immoral, serious crimes. Fortunately, the trend in the work of the Ministry of Interior, at least what we learn from the media, has results. The Ministry has recently undertaken a serious policy, at least judging from this information we have. In this regard, Mr. Minister, in order to make it clear to our society and to our colleagues and to all of us, is my question to you: what measures does the Ministry of Interior take on the prevention of and countering phone fraud since the beginning of this year, and what is the effectiveness of these measures? Did the police's last raid on the phone cheaters have an impact on the trends in this criminal environment? Can you provide statistics demonstrating the trend of the last three years for registered cases of phone fraud and the money acquired by scammers? I hope that colleagues and society will understand from your response that, in fact, when working systematically, there are results. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u33	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Manev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The activities of the Ministry of Interior in countering telephone fraud are oriented in two main directions. Firstly, the conduct is aimed at operational and search activities and procedural actions for the establishment, detention and proof of the criminal activity of the perpetrators and the conduct of preventive events to reduce the number of victims. Phone fraud is a specific type of crime that requires a complex of events to identify the perpetrators. They are in several categories of the so-called twisters, controllers and couriers, mules, and gathering sufficient evidence of their empathy for the specific crime. Given the remote nature of these crimes, the migration of the contingent is mostly to the neighbouring country of Romania, the use of SIM cards of foreign mobile operators and the lack of physical contact between the victim, the mule perpetrator, the Ministry of Interior actively directs its efforts not only to the lowest level in the criminal chain, so-called mules, but also to the proof of organised criminal activity carried out by the perpetrators. An example of this was carried out on 18 April 2019 a police operation for the detention of telephone fraudsters part of an organized criminal group on the territory of Bulgaria and Romania in connection with pre-trial proceedings under the supervision of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the course of this operation, 10 persons involved in an organised crime group were detained. A search has been carried out at 17 addresses in Bulgaria, 5 in Romania. A large number of mobile devices, SIM cards, vouchers, cardholders, tablets, notes, documents, money and currency were found and seized, and other evidence relevant to criminal activity. Seven luxury cars were also seized. The positive result is also due to the good cooperation with the representatives of Bulgaria in the European Judicial Cooperation Network.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Also since the end of 2012, the Ministry of Interior has been conducting an active preventive campaign aimed at raising awareness of this crime and giving advice on the ways in which they can protect themselves. Nevertheless, many people continue to be victims of phone fraud. This required the implementation of the so-called multidisciplinary approach and the involvement of other public and private sector entities. An example of good cooperation is partnership with banks. In most cases, in the transfer of large sums of money by the victims, the same in the course of the fraud carry out withdrawals from banking branches or offices. For this reason, with the cooperation of the Association of Banks in Bulgaria, several meetings were held with representatives of banks operating on the territory of the country. In order to cross telephone fraud in a timely manner, bank and police officers at national and regional level are designated for direct contact in case of suspicion of telephone fraud. The Ministry of Interior also provided criteria for identifying potential victims of phone fraud, bank clients and mode of action. An indicative example of cooperation between law enforcement authorities and the private sector is the use of society and the long-standing partnership of the Ministry of Interior and mobile operators. It is particularly beneficial at this stage to cooperate with one of the operators, given that the majority of stationary phone users are subscribed to that operator. On a proposal from the Ministry of Interior, in particular the Directorate General for National Police, for joint joint measures since the end of February 2019 the same operator has taken additional action for daily, extraordinary monitoring of the telecommunications space for atypical traffic and its termination. As a result of the active measures taken, the phone calls made for fraud of 81 025 in February this year fell to 18,792 in March and in April were reduced to 15,81 attempts at fraud. The same measures have been identified and applied with the other two telecoms. For the effectiveness of the measures taken, the data from the official police statistics, according to which the registered telephone fraud in March 2019 was 56 compared to 137 in March 2018. The trend is maintained in April. The registered phone fraud is 48, compared to 71 for the same month in 2018. This includes trials and crimes from previous periods, but pre-trial proceedings were initiated in April 2019. The aggregated statistics indicate that a reduction in registered telephone fraud has been recorded in 1399; 2017 has been registered 1325 and 2018 has been recorded in the last three years. 1097. For that period, the value of the property damage was between 22 and 23 million, according to unofficial information. lv. For the period 1 January 2019 In view of the above, the Commission concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, lv. In conclusion, I inform you that the Ministry of Interior is applying a systematic approach to countering this type of crime. We constantly improve the working methods, skills and competences of our employees, as well as active cooperation with other competent institutions and the joint administrative and technical measures taken with mobile operators and banks are also taking into account serious results and a tendency to reduce both the trials and the crimes committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u34	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I am satisfied with the answer that I have received to the question, but it is hardly the most important thing to me whether I am satisfied? More importantly, in my opinion, the systemic approach that the Ministry of Interior has taken with regard to this, we can quite safely use the strong word "social scourge" - the crimes called "phone fraud" - give their results. They give it in practice, they give it in statistical dimensions, and most of all they give it as a feeling among the people who have understood and felt that this thing can be stopped and fought, for which I express my gratitude to the Ministry of Interior, to the way and approach you have worked. Last but not least, I am glad that an uncomfortable question until recently, such as how we deal with phone cheaters, is now an issue to which we can answer with a raised head and say: we apply all those methods and methods that the Ministry of Interior has to give calm and a sense of security to Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Here you are, you have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u37	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Manev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Thank you for your evaluation, Mr. Manev. I think this is indeed a result of a systematic approach and of working together with the institutions, as the Ministry of Interior and the Special Prosecutor's Office have built a very good team that has managed to reach the highest levels of this organised crime group. Naturally, after this realization and break-up of the entire group we expect to change the approach of the impostors themselves, but in any case we will follow every trend and react immediately. Dear Mr. President, I would like to use the platform of the National Assembly, as this is the place from which information can be reached to all people, once again to warn people about some basic things relating to the prevention of this type of criminal activity. The main thing is not to trust strangers on any occasion; not to give money to strangers, in whatever form and in what preposition, and as what they are presented. The police don't work that way. In the event of an attempt at telephone fraud or a dubious call being made to them, inform the Ministry of Interior by telephone 112 immediately. I have a call to young people, as the main victim is their parents, our parents, constantly inform them that there are such cases, how they are made and what to do in such a call. I believe that by working preventively, the public's awareness will lead to a reduction in this type of criminal activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u38	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for participating in parliamentary control today. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first question to Minister Avramova is from the MP Julian Papashimov on the construction of a bridge on the river Tundzha on the Republic road III-7008 Elhovo You have the floor, Dr. Papasimov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u39	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, the bridge of the Tundzha River on road III-7008 Elhovo "Bee at km 2+500," built more than 90 years ago in 1926, has a wooden structure and a lane for movement. The facility was heavily depreciated and was seriously affected by the floodwaters of the Tundzha River at the end of 2014. At the moment, no vehicles are passing along the bridge and traffic is directed along the road adjacent to it. The speed of movement is 30 kilometers per hour. Last year, Minister Nankov informed that a new bridge would be built on the Tundzha River. A contract was signed for the design and construction of the new facility at km 2+500 on route III-7008 on which the traffic to the TPP is passing through the Maritsa-east and it is quite strengthened. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the actual construction of the new Tundzha river facility begin, and what are the deadlines for its completion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u40	Thank you, dear Dr. Papasimov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Papasimov, for the implementation of the project Republican road III-7008 Elhovo "Scalitsa" bridge over the Tundzha River at km 2+500 in 2018 was signed a contract for carrying out research-design works and construction works at 733 thousand. £920. with VAT. The construction supervision contract was signed in 2017 and was worth 39 004 BGN. with VAT. According to the contract with the contractor of the research and design works and construction, the technical project was submitted to the Road Infrastructure Agency to examine the Expert Technical and Economic Council. He has been returned for the removal of remarks by the experts of the Agency. The design documentation shall be definitively transmitted to the API on 18 February 2019 in accordance with the technical mandate and contractual terms. A complex report has been prepared by the consultant. The project was submitted to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for approval and permission to build on 1 April 2019. The good news is that on 10 May 2019 the building permit was promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, there is funding and preparatory work is being carried out before the start of the construction. The contract implementation period at design stage shall be 40 calendar days which has been completed and at construction stage 80 calendar days starting from the signing of a protocol for the opening of a construction site, act Model 2a. The construction of the new bridge facility at the site of the existing over the Tundzha River at km 2+500 on road III 7008 will ensure the normal drainage of water volumes, the wearability and durability of the facility with a view to ensuring the conditions for safe movement and comfort of passengers. So the real construction of this bridge is about to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u42	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Dr. Papasimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I don't take the floor for a line. I would like to say that this answer greatly satisfies not only me, but all residents in the town of Elhovo and all travelers in this direction, but especially for the Marritsa-east. I want to thank Minister Avramova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u44	Thank you, dear Dr. Papasimov. We continue with the next question to Minister Avramova. He is from the National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova concerning the conclusion of a contract with a contractor on the bypass of the town of Kameno. You have the floor to ask a question, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, at the beginning of 2018 during parliamentary control, you were asked a question about the tour of the town of Kameno and in particular: at what stage are the two tender procedures for the contractor of the site for construction and supervision, and what is the indicative deadline for starting construction works? At that time, the two appointed committees examined the proposals submitted by the participants. Subsequently, the decision of the Director of Regional Road Management Burgas for evaluation and ranking of the participants in the public procurement contract for the selection of the contractor of the research and design works and construction of the site was appealed to. Thus, the realization of the object was delayed. In the media and media media it has recently spread the news that the Supreme Administrative Court has issued a decision which is not subject to appeal, stating in its reasoning that the act which led to the classification of the participants in technical proposals is lawful. In this regard, please inform us whether a contract has been concluded with the selected contractor and when the construction and repair works of the site are expected to be started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The route of the surrounding road of the town of Kameno passes on two Republican roads - third-class III-6008 Lukoil "Neftochim" Kameno and from km 14+700 to km 16 and third-class road 5393 Kamenovo from km 9+900 to km 10+926. The construction of a road node Българово at km 352 at the highway "Trakiya" in 2014 and the inclusion of the tour of the town of Kameno as part of the route of the southern tour of the city of Bourgas to the road hub "Medden mine" attracted significant traffic through the town of Kameno especially during the summer season. All heavy cargo traffic carrying fuel from the city of Kameno, Lukoil Neftohim, Burgas and more than 50% of the traffic from and to the South Black Sea coast. This contributed significantly to the deterioration of the technical and operational state of the sections of the two third-class roads forming the bypass of the town of Kameno. The audits carried out by the Institute of Roads and Bridges experts show that a complete reconstruction is needed to restore the wearability of the two sections. As well as Mr. Nankov informed in his written reply in April last year, in February 2018, a public procurement procedure was launched for the selection of a contractor for carrying out research and design works and construction works, as well as a procedure for selecting a contractor for performing a consulting service in construction supervision for the site of the town of Kameno. The funding of the tour of the town of Kameno is provided by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. By decision of 7 August 2018, the contracting authority was appointed a contractor of the consulting service, namely "Plan Invest Plovdiv." On 30 November 2018, the contract worth 38 thousand was also signed. £280. By decision of 24 August 2018, the contracting authority was appointed the contractor of the research and design works and construction. The signing of the contract with the selected contractor was prevented due to a complaint lodged with the Commission for Protection of Competition by one of the participants in the procedure............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By Decision No 1320 of 22 November 2018, the Commission for the Protection of Competition respected the complaint and annulled the decision on the evaluation and classification of the contracting parties. On the other hand, the chosen firm, the chosen firm, the Trace Group, held, appealed to the Commission's decision before the Supreme Administrative Court and the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of 7 March 2019 annulled the Commission's decision on the protection of competition and rejected the complaint of the Black Sea. The decision shall be final and shall not be subject to appeal. Currently, the contract for the execution of a contract for Kameno's tour has been prepared. It is to be signed by both parties as soon as possible and to begin the actual work on the implementation of the site. The total value for the implementation of the contract is 1 million. 701 thousand. 9 leva. The time limit for the execution of the contract shall be 105 calendar days from the date of signature of the contract. Within this period, the contractor should carry out design and construction, including delivery and incorporation in the construction of the necessary and compliant technical specifications and technical design construction materials, and complete the site within 105 calendar days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u48	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Madam Minister, I take the floor not for a reply, but on behalf of all the citizens of Kameno to express my gratitude to you for the fact that the Ministry and the government really think about every single municipality in the country and to thank you for the provided funds for the tour of the city. This is an extremely important site for Kameno Municipality and its realization will lead to many positives for all residents to attract more investors. For that we really thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u50	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov on the extension of the South Rainbow of the Crossroad in the section of the residential district of Mladost. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ivanov, to ask the question which concerns all of us and is of particular interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The station from the road hub of Tsarigradsko shose to the road hub of Mladost is one of the two last sections for the construction of the South Rainbow of the Sofia Ring Road. The purpose of the expansion and modernisation of the section is to relieve extremely heavy traffic, including heavy traffic, which practically blocks the entrance and exit of the capital. Daily on the Sofia ring road..The Thrace Motorway gets mileage columns that lead to tension, waste of time and, of course, receive quite harmful emissions in air pollution. The implementation of the project, in turn, would facilitate the movement of transit traffic between Struma Motorway and Trakia Motorway. During the past year the Road Infrastructure Agency announced a public contract for the selection of a contractor for the design and construction of the section from the road hub of Tsarigradsko shose to the road hub of Mladost, as well as the consulting service related to it. In this regard, Madam Minister, please answer the following questions. At what stage are the procedures for the selection of the contractor of the section from the district of Mladost. Is the field security procedure completed, as well as compensation for the owners of the affected properties and parts of the property of the investment intention? What deadline does the Ministry plan to conclude the construction and the Agency's Road Infrastructure? What technical elements and gauge is intended to be included in the technical project? And last but not least, how will the crossroads issue be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for this question, because through you we will be able to inform both the residents of Sofia and all traveling along this route about the progress of its construction. The Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 states that the efforts of the state will be aimed at maintaining the existing economy and attracting new investments. With only new investments made by Bulgarian enterprises, as well as foreign investors, new jobs will be opened and incomes can be increased. Among the main priorities of the Programme is effective maintenance, modernisation and development of transport infrastructure, because it is a key factor for the economic upliftment and improving quality of life. The construction of the South Rainbow of the Sofia Ring Road in the remaining sections of the highway I am doing this brief introduction to draw attention to the fact that, with successive steps and with responsibility to the decisions taken, the government is fulfilling its intentions. Indeed, along Sofia's ring road, the highway is created daily by miles of cars, which make it difficult to move, and this reflects on transport services and traffic times. For the completion of this section of the South Rainbow will be solved not only the exposed problem, but in this way a homogeneous route will be provided to ensure adequate service to the surrounding areas of the Sofia ring road. I would like to make the clarification that the realization of the project in the 5.8 km long section from the road hub of Tsarigradsko shose to the road hub of Mladost is carried out with the joint efforts of the Road Infrastructure Agency and Sofia Municipality. For the department for the award of Sofia Municipality was developed in 2017 a completed project for extension of the existing road to a motorway gauge, direct transit route, local sails to ensure access to the adjacent properties. On the basis of an agreement between the Municipality and the Road Infrastructure Agency, a project has been drawn up and provided to the Agency for Administration and Production of a Technical Project and the implementation of the construction itself. In accordance with the commitments made in 2018, two public contracts were announced for the designation of a contractor for design and construction of the site and for the contractor of a consulting service. In February 2019, the contracting authority "Travel Infrastructure" has been appointed as a contractor of the public contract for design and construction "GBS Infrastructure Construction" AD with a price for the execution of the contract of nearly 119 million. lv. without VAT. However, the signing of the contract with the selected contractor was prevented by a complaint with the Commission for Protection of Competition. At present, following a Commission decision in favour of the contracting entity, a contract with the contractor for engineering is to be signed. The design period is 180 days and for the construction and installation works 730 calendar days. In the technical project is set the gauge of the section G-46 m, comprising two lanes of movement in one direction of 10.5 m each, the average distance of 3 m, the dividing strip between the local and the direct route of two by three meters, the local lanes of two by six meters, the road sidewalks of the local lanes two by two meters, the design speed of 80 km per hour. The pedestrian crossing will take place through three pedestrian overpasses at km 36 + 160, 36 + 850 and km 37 + 310. With regard to the contract for determining a consultant, I inform you that 12 offers have been submitted to participants in the procedure. The Commission is currently examining the technical proposals of the participants and assessing them. Upon completion of this stage, the price offers of the admitted participants will be opened. In parallel with these procedures, the Agency conducts an alienation procedure under the Law on State Property for Land Property located in the land of Sofia, Sofia Municipality, Sofia-city district. The properties are affected by the Project of a detailed development plan, a modification of the Plan for street regulation within a range from road hub to highway "Trakiya" and an amendment of the Plan for the Regulation of the Competitive Districts of Vitosha Region, the region "Mladost" and the region "Pancharevo" which was approved in force by Decision No 145 of 28 January 2016 of the Sofia Municipal Council. By order of 5 March 2019 of the district governor of the district of Sofia was issued an estrangement for the affected properties and parts of the property of the investment intention. The decree is individually awarded to each owner by the district governor of Sofia-city within the statutory deadline. In stage, after its entry into force, the State will acquire ownership of the affected properties and parts of private property. Thus, a construction permit could also be provided, with more than 69 legal proceedings before the Administrative Court of Sofia-City against the amount of compensation granted. For all other properties listed in the registers as municipal property and also for the one for which documents are provided showing that it is owned by Sofia Municipality, in accordance with art. 43b, sentence two of the State Property Act, was requested by the Sofia Municipal Council free of charge transfer of ownership in favour of the State. A decision is expected to be followed by the conclusion of a property donation contract between the Road Infrastructure Agency and Sofia Municipality. Upon completion of all the procedures set out here and provided that there is no appeal to the procedure for selection of a consultant, the construction of the section from the road hub of Tsarigradsko shose to the road hub of Mladost and could actually start by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u54	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u55	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Thank you for the information so submitted, which is really extremely important not only for Sofianians and for the business in Sofia, but also for the whole country, I can even say in the most responsible way: for our international connectivity, as you mentioned, and between the two highways of Struma and Trakia. But the processes that the government implements in the programme are being carried out as planned. Unfortunately, our BSP colleagues are no longer in the Chamber for a third month to hear this information, because it is important for all Bulgarian citizens, as I said, regardless of whose voters they are. The question that you answered gives real clarity. I have to go back in time when I traveled from Tsar Boris III to Mladost for an hour by car, and now we are traveling for no more than 15 minutes. So this connectivity, which will take place near Trakia Motorway and the completion of the South Rainbow, is really extremely important not only for the residents of Sofia, as I said, for the people of "Mladost" and the regions of "Vitosha" and those of the South Rainbow, but also for all our business and international connectivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I use the occasion of the question asked by Mr. Ivanov to thank all MPs for their efforts and in very short time adopted amendments to the Law on State Property, which ease the procedures for alienating property for state needs. These are for the large sites of Bulgaria, the large infrastructure sites that the Ministry through the Road Infrastructure Agency is implementing and implementing. Let me thank you for the fact that with the amendments adopted, we will have the opportunity to ask for pre-execution of alienation procedures and to be able to build, because alienation of property is a process that slows down the whole administration of construction. So I thank the MPs for their efforts. We already have the opportunity and we will take all the necessary action for this section, important for Sofia, the Crossroads, we will take action next week at the request of preliminary implementation in order to shorten the time limits of estrangement procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u58	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova about the rehabilitation of road III 906 Varna You have the floor, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, dear Mrs Avramova! The Danube Pass is the only alternative to the road in the direction of Sunny Beach resort. On the route of the Republican road Varna "Kableshkovo " Sunny Beach " Burgas daily travels many citizens, as well as tourists during the summer season, who report the badly deteriorated condition of the road and experience discomfort during their journey. The third-rate stride has been severely compromised. There are large, many holes observed, the asphalt on both ends of the traffic lane is broken, and banquets are not at all along the passage itself. This condition of the road, in turn, makes getting away with two cars very difficult. The damaged performance of the road has been for many years and its condition continues to deteriorate with each passing day. The repairs carried out in places are insufficient and there is little effect for the road itself. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: is there any plans for major road repairs and, if so, when are they envisaged? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u60	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The Republican Road III-906 is 66 km long. The third-class road is located in the territory of two districts of Varna and Burgas and the stretch of 20 km from km 14+100 to km 34+100 represents the Dyulinski Pass. As you pointed out in your speech, the passage is the only alternative to road I-9 in the direction from Sunny Beach resort to the town of Obzor. In the investment programme of the Agency, for 2019 the preparation of a technical project for the site road III-906 Staro Oryahovo is set up.Obzor.Gyulyovtsa "Kableshkovo I-9 from km 0 to 65, which represents its entire length. The project aims at restoring and improving transport-service qualities and bearing the quality of the pavement, improving the drainage of the road with a view to ensuring safe driving conditions. In April 2018, the Agency launched a public procurement contract to select a contractor for design activities. The work of the Committee on Procedure was completed at the end of 2018, with a decision of the contracting authority assigned to the contract. On 11 March 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency signed a contract with the selected designer. The time limit for execution of the contract shall be 150 calendar days. Within the time limit, the designer should carry out geodetic measurements, constructive examination and development of a technical project for the repair of nine large facilities, engineering and geology studies and the development of a comprehensive investment technical project. The value of the signed contract is 462 thousand. lv., of which 420 thousand. lv. are for project research and 42,000. lv. are for copyright supervision. At present, the design team is developing the first intermediate stage of the Technical Project, namely: detailed geodesic measurement, geometrical solution of the road route, including road intersections, a view of large facilities and proposals for necessary repair and reconstruction works, proposals for local renovations of the pavement, engineering and geology report. By the end of May this year, the project materials of the first mid-term phase are to be submitted to the Road Infrastructure Agency to examine an Expert Tech Economic Council. After the final transmission of the Technical Project and its adoption by the Expert Technical Economic Council of the Agency, opportunities will be sought for the implementation of the main repair of road III-906 through the inclusion of sites in the Investment Programme of the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased that in your person and in the face of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Road Infrastructure Agency there is an understanding that the Dyulin Pass is a significant site for both the district of Burgas and the district of Varna as the only alternative to the Obzor Pass and in the summer months its workload is often increased. Its inclusion in the next investment program of the Road Infrastructure Agency will allow ease of traffic from the South Black Sea coast to the North, which will lead to a reduction of road accidents, to faster and more peaceful movement between Burgas region and Varna district. Thanks for the positive answer. We're gonna hang up a follow-up on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. This was the last question to Minister Avramova. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov, who will answer, first of all, a question from the National Representative Claudia Gancheva. The issue is about the possibilities for social inclusion of older people over 60 years of age. Here you are, Mrs. Gancheva, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u65	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The statistical data of the National Statistical Institute and Eurostat confirm the worrying trend for increasing the number of ageing population in Bulgaria and its difficulties to access health and social services due to the few settlements they live in or their inability to serve themselves in their daily lives. It is not rare that elderly people need health care and social support in their homes, as they are difficult to move to the medical establishment or social service. My question is: what measures does the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy take as an institution responsible for vulnerable groups in Bulgarian society, for improving the quality of life and opportunities for social inclusion of elderly people over 60 years of age? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u66	Thank you. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, let me at the beginning of the meeting confirm the finding on which you base your question to submit specific statistics to the National Statistical Institute for the Elderly population in Bulgaria. According to NSI, as I said, on 12 April this year 33,2% or one third of the population in our country is aged 65 years or older. The latest data from Eurostat show that in the period 2007 - 2017 the share of people aged 65 years and older in Bulgaria increased by 3.1 percentage points. According to this indicator, our country ranks eighth in the European Union after Malta, Finland, the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Denmark, Portugal and Cyprus. The proportion of elderly people aged 65 years and older in the European Union is 19.4 percentage points, with an increase of 2.4 percentage points in the last 10 years. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is making targeted efforts to provide social services in a home environment for lonely elderly people, persons and children with disabilities and people from other vulnerable groups. Social services in the home environment are personal assistant, social assistant, domestic assistant, social patronage. The main purpose of these services is to provide care for the daily needs of those in need in a home environment. Currently under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" the procedure is being implemented "Patronage care for elderly people and persons with disabilities "Compartment 2". The aim of the operation is to build a model of patronage care for elderly people and persons with disabilities, including chronic diseases, permanent disabilities and social inclusion of elderly people over 65 years and people with disabilities. A network of mobile social and health services will be built on the operation, which will be provided in a home environment, and the elderly and disabled will be provided with health and social services, as well as psychological support and counseling. The procedure provides means for repair, furniture and equipment of premises in municipalities for providing patronage care, as well as for training and supervision of staff. Integrated services will be provided in no less than 12 months, and each user of the service will receive health-social services within two hours a day. The maximum value of the service per person is BGN 2016. per year. Until 10 May this year, municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria had the opportunity to submit their project proposals. A total of 127 project proposals have been received under Operation "Patronage care for elderly people and disabled people." Out of 159 municipalities 32 municipalities are partners, I make this clarification for a total of 12 773 users. The amount of the requested grant is nearly 31 million. $700,000. lv. 70 projects have already been approved at a total value of 9 million. 900,000. lv. The total number of users that will be covered through the approved projects is 7939 people, and are expected to cover a total of over 17 000 users according to the procedure. The first 15 contracts for providing patronage care were signed and awarded to municipalities on 9 May this year. The model of providing integrated health and social services was tested with the Project of the Bulgarian Red Cross Home Care for independent and dignified life, which was funded by the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme. The project of BCC was implemented in four municipalities.. Vratsa, Byala Slatina, Krivodol and Oryahovo. Each year, for the 2012 project, about 100 people from each municipality benefited from the service. 93.7% of consumers have stated that they are largely satisfied with the service provided. So we decided to continue and expand the range at national level and pilot a scheme similar to that of the Bulgarian Red Cross, which will build on the social services provided so far in a home environment at municipal level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u68	Thank you, Minister, the information on the subject has been comprehensive. The next question is from the MP Svetlana Naydenova. Mrs. Naydenova, you are welcome to develop the issue of the National Strategy for the Child 2019 " 2030."
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, there has been tensions in social networks for weeks against the National Strategy for the Child 2019 Project, despite the order of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov to withdraw it again. On 11 May 2019 in the city of Sofia and 20 other cities in the country were organized a civil protest.The main concerns of the protesters are that the strategy decentralizes the role of the family, takes away the rights of the parents and is transferred to social workers. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: how justified are parents' concerns that there is a risk of taking children with false and unfounded signals; is a draft new child law being prepared; what actions have been taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in relation to the tensions created? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Here you are, my dear Minister, to answer this hot question, they are always hot and we expect the answers with attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Angelova, The National Strategy for the Child 2019 project was developed on the basis of art. 1, para. 3 of the Child Protection Act by a working group with a mandate from the National Council for Child Protection, which was attended by representatives of state institutions, NGOs and the academic community. The project was published for public discussion at the beginning of this year. Due to the opinions received in the constitutional process with substantial comments on the texts of the Draft Strategy and the lack of public consensus on such an important issue, the draft document was not sent for inter-agency coordination in order to submit it to the Council of Ministers. In response to the tension created in part of society as a result of publications on social networks and on the Prime Minister's explicit order, the work on the Project Strategy was stopped in April and the project drawn up by the working group was withdrawn for processing. In this context, I would like to emphasise that not only is there no Strategy for the Child with Time Horizon 2019 " 2030" against which it is protested, but there is not yet an actual draft of such a document to be subject to public consultation. Regarding parents' concerns that the aim is to deprive them of their rights, I strongly state that the withdrawal of parental rights is not foreseen in the draft Strategy or legislation. The positions, actions and measures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy have always been in line with the constitutional principle that raising and raising children up to their age is the right and duty of their parents and is supported by the state. Under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the States Parties to the Convention shall adopt the necessary measures to assist parents and other persons responsible for the child. This is also the main purpose of the laws in Bulgaria in the area of child protection. In this regard, in no way at the level of legislation or strategic documents is allowed or envisaged to extend the powers of civil servants to families, child deprivation or withdrawal of rights. Totally unfounded are the concerns that the state authorities will take children with false signals. I believe that such statements show poor knowledge of the legislation in force in Bulgaria in the area of child protection for many years. An example is also the ignorance of the norm in force since 2003 of art. 7 of the Child Protection Act on the obligation to assist, according to which I quote: A person who is known to need protection is obliged to inform the Department of Social Assistance, the State Agency for Child Protection and the Ministry of Interior. The same obligation shall apply to any person to whom this has become known in relation to his profession or activity, even if he is bound by professional secrecy. This is a norm that has been in force for 16 years and has not been introduced with the latest amendments to the Child Protection Act. In relation to the actions of social workers in case of an alert for a child at risk, it should be borne in mind that their obligation to verify each alert is also not new. There is no way for state authorities to carry out their activities without regulatory regulation of their obligations. It was for the sake of good coordination of all involved bodies that were adopted by the National Assembly on 7 March this year by means of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Social Services, changes to the Law on Child Protection in order to introduce coordination mechanisms, as child protection is not solely the responsibility of social workers. The Law has been unchanged for many years provisions on the grounds of housing the child outside the family. These grounds have not been extended. Regarding your question regarding the preparation of a draft law for the child, I would like to reiterate that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is not working on developing a law for the child or another law in the area of children's rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u72	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Angelova, would you care to comment on Minister Petkov's response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, it was important to ask this question once again to parliamentary control, given the situation that has been created in recent weeks of ongoing discontent in social networks and the preparation of future protests against the Child Protection Strategy 2019. Indeed, we are living in a very active civil society, so the voice of thousands of parents, citizens, has been heard, and even two weeks ago the government's position has been clearly and categorically stated that the Strategy has been withdrawn and there is currently no work on a new draft of this strategy. Unreasonable are parents' concerns that the state will take children from their biological parents for no reason. It is very important to repeat once again that there is no and no draft new child law being prepared. It is high time for all this speculation and false news on this subject to cease. The best environment for raising and raising children is the family environment. This is also the vision of the Social Ministry and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Mr. Minister, you have given a comprehensive and specific answer. That was the last question for you. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue our work with a question to Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, who will answer a question from the MPs Atanas Tashkov, Zapriyan Yankov and Kiril Kalfin. Mr. Tashkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our questioning with colleagues Zapreyan Yankov and Kiril Kalfin is regarding Plovdiv Airport. Plovdiv Airport is an object of important strategic, economic and regional importance for the Republic of Bulgaria. It is an international airport and in this capacity has a significant role and importance for Plovdiv and the Plovdiv region. Its development is aimed at many life expectations. Over the past few years, attempts have been made to attract a strategic investor through its participation in the concessionation of the facility itself. In 2018, the concession procedure for Plovdiv airport was terminated and then the winner, without sufficiently motivated claims, gave up. This has caused serious damage to regional and economic expectations and planned future investments in Plovdiv and the region because, as we all know, attracting an investor to such a strategic site leads to a number of investment intentions from other private companies as well. Recently, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications announced that they are organising a process for announcing a new concession. In this regard, our questioning, me and colleagues, is: at what stage is the announced analysis of the upcoming concession of Plovdiv airport? When is the launch of a new concession procedure planned? Do you foresee higher restrictions and protection of national interest if the successful candidate for the concession again gives up and accordingly any legislative initiatives of the Ministry in this direction?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u76	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Dear Minister, according to the procedure, you have five minutes to answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tashkov, Mr. Yankov, Mr. Kalfin! By my order of 16 January 2019, preparatory actions were launched to award a state concession for construction on the site of the Civil Airport for Public Use. Offers to be collected and evaluated on the basis of which new concession analyses will be drawn up with the ranked participant, technical and financial economic, legal and environmental, after which tenders will be examined and ranked and a contract for the performance of the contract will be concluded with the ranked participant. These analyses need to be carried out again in view of the new factual and legal situation created around the platform of Plovdiv airport and as well as an update of the old analyses, from which no time has expired. The concession award procedure is to be opened according to the plan we made in July this year. To your question whether higher restrictions and protection of the interest of the situation are envisaged. If the successful candidate for a concession is again refused, it is envisaged that the participants in the procedure will present guarantees for participation, the amount of which will be determined on the basis of the analyses drawn up. Such guarantees were not intended to be provided in the previous procedure. This is an established practice in many of the procedures for serious infrastructure sites, such as Plovdiv Airport. The presentation of a guarantee for participation in the procedure is a security guarantee in the intentions of the candidates concerned, thereby expressing their serious intentions to complete their participation in the procedure. Last but not least, such a guarantee of participation also creates necessary security for the contracting authority that the participant in the procedure will not give up any further participation without undue delay after spending on the preparation and conduct of the procedure has been incurred. With the latest amendments to the Law on concessions, texts were refined in the law itself and this is expected to lead to improvement of the investment environment in the country and as a result to encourage potential investors to participate in relevant concession procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u78	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tashkov, you've heard the answer and you've got the opportunity for further questions. Mr. Iankov will take this opportunity as one of the importers of the questioning. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Firstly, thank you for the comprehensive response of the colleague on the concession at Plovdiv airport. Hopefully this concession will start in a short time and time, because it is extremely necessary and important for the development of economic growth and the development of the economy in Plovdiv region because of the strategic situation in which Plovdiv Airport is located. The additional question we want to ask you is about the following information: Reference to the newsletter shows that there is a dispute concerning part of the property at Plovdiv airport, namely the platform at Plovdiv airport. What actions does the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications plan about a negative development of the case? What action would your Ministry take and take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u80	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the additional question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u81	Thank you. This is an extremely important issue as it concerns a significant and substantial part of the infrastructure and assets of Plovdiv airport. The platform itself, which I mentioned at the beginning, and which concerns your questioning, is the subject of a property dispute, which has been under way since 2014 by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works through the district governor of Plovdiv district against the private one, I stress, the private company "Letty Plovdiv" JSC. The subject matter of the dispute is briefly as follows: In 1982, an area of a platform of 61 752 square meters was built by the specialized unit of Construction Forces to the Bulgarian Army, which after the breakup of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Balkans falls within the assets of the State-owned company "Letishte Plovdiv" which is converted into "Letishte Plovdiv." This is what happened in 1991. In 1995, the facility was imported into the assets of Plovdiv Airport. For this part of the platform of Plovdiv airport, the property document is owned by both Plovdiv Airport and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. In 2008, a construction permit was issued in the name of the General Directorate of the Air Administration for the extension of the existing platform and the extension itself took place in an eastern direction from the already existing platform and has a total volume of construction works 47,420 square meters. The investment was made entirely by public funds. The new facility was put into operation in July 2009. In case No 2328 of 2014 under the description of the Plovdiv District Court, by judgment in 2015. Plovdiv Airport is a private company recognised as a non-owner of the platform. Plovdiv Airport has attacked the decision before the Plovdiv Court of Appeal, which returns the dispute for a new hearing in the Plovdiv District Court. Civil case No 3270 of 2015 was formed according to the description of the Plovdiv District Court, which was given a decision that the owner of the platform in different proportions were recognized.. Following a complaint by the district governor, the case was dealt with at a court of appeal before the Plovdiv Court of Appeal, which returned it to the Plovdiv District Court for a new hearing. Civil case No 2379 of 2017 was filed under the description of Plovdiv District Court, on which a decision was given, according to which the whole platform and the old and the new part, built by public funds, are awarded to Plovdiv Airport on the basis of art. 97 of the Property Act, according to which the owner of the principal property acquires and the related part at a distance. Plovdiv District Governor appealed against the decision and Plovdiv Court of Appeal with civil case No 373 of 2018, confirmed the Plovdiv District Court's decision in full. The district governor of Plovdiv again appealed to the Supreme Court of Cassation the last decision of the Plovdiv Court of Appeal, which gave him the platform in full. The Supreme Court of Cassation has accepted the cassation appeal and the case is to be called into question at a hearing. The definition of the VCC for admission of cassation is defined as of 10 May 2019, i.e. a few days ago. To your question: what actions are planned for the negative development of the case? The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as so far, has been assisting the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to use all legal options to protect the state's rights on public government property. At the moment, as I mentioned at the beginning of my response, preparatory actions are being carried out with the necessary analyses. As I informed you a moment ago, part of the task of legal analysis would be the situation in its alternatives - unfavorable and favourable, including the subject of the analysis will be the various opportunities and development of the airport, including opportunities for building a new platform in the event of a negative development of the dispute over the existing platform in Plovdiv at the moment. This will be set with a view to better information, better planning of the business investment potential of the asset, which has Plovdiv airport, because the airport itself, airport infrastructure and the potential benefits of the development of the same matter not only for Plovdiv region but at all for the development of Southern Bulgaria and neighbouring areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u82	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the opportunity to take an attitude, honourable importers. Mr. Tashkov will do that. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u83	Thank you, Minister, for entering the depths and essence of the problem with the platform at Plovdiv Airport. You have entered deep into the entire judicial saga that has formed around the so-called peron. I admire your efforts. I hope that with the latest definition of the Supreme Court of Cassation for admission of the appeal for examination, we will have a positive decision to rule in favour of the State, respectively at Plovdiv Airport. Thank you both on the first part of the question and for the measures you have taken in connection with the concession at the airport, as you said, for opening the procedure and the guarantees that you have included, which must have participants for the security of their offers. I hope to see the positive end of this intention for concessionation at the airport and, naturally, the development of the region and of Plovdiv in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u84	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. Dear Minister, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with a question addressed to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor to develop your question about the status of projects of the Electric System Operator................................................................................... You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! The electricity system operator manages the country's electricity system, implements the single operational planning and coordination. He also owns the high voltage network. It is also the responsibility of the company to carry out joint work with the electricity system operators of the other parties, to ensure the operation, maintenance and reliable functioning of the transmission network. Our power system operator is also part of the ENTSO-E. You informed us a long time ago that the ECO is working on the implementation of five projects that have received the status of projects of common European interest and that they are part of the Memorandum to complement the initiative for interconnection with Central and South East Europe. I think yesterday they made a first dig near Yambol in connection with one of the projects and that it will be interesting to us how these projects are going, what are the deadlines for their realization, what will we achieve? Perhaps in the second question I will develop my question further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u86	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here you are, dear Minister. You have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, as you rightly pointed out, the electricity system operator is working on implementing five projects with the status of projects of common European interest that the company is carrying out under Regulation 347/2013 for the development of trans-European energy infrastructure. The total length of the new power lines is approximately 467 km with an investment value of 245 million. Euros. At present, the ECO has concluded free financing agreements with European funds worth more than 102 million. EUR or approximately 42% of their total investment value. In 2018, the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Economy of the Hellenic Republic supported a joint application of the system operators of the two countries for co-financing by the financial mechanism for connecting Europe to the interconnection of the interconnection between the substation "Maritsa East" and "Nea Santa" substation. At the beginning of 2019, the European Commission decided to provide 58 million. lv. free funding for the construction of the electricity line on Bulgarian territory. This decision has completed the financial package to implement all projects of common interest in the country's electricity sector. By the end of July 2018, with European funding, the ECO completed the implementation of the full package of pre-investment activities, including approved environmental impact assessment reports and detailed development plans for all electricity lines. The procedures for the acquisition of property rights were subsequently launched. Permissions for the construction of the power lines were granted from substation "Maritsa East" to substation "Burgas" and from substation "Maritsa East" to substation "Plovdiv." For other power lines, construction permits are expected to be issued in the second half of 2019. The projects are implemented in a package with the official beginning of November 22, 2018 with the opening of the construction of the facilities for the connection of the new 400 kV internal power line between Dobrudzha and Burgas with substation Burgas. This Wednesday, on 15 May, in the presence of representatives of the European Commission's Innovation and Networks Executive Agency, the ECO launched the construction of the 400 kV internal power line from the substation of Maritsa East to the substation of Burgas. The introduction into operation is also to be implemented, starting from 2020, with the electricity line between the substation "Maritsa East" and the TPP "Maritsa East 3" followed in 2021 by the other three internal power lines, at the beginning of 2023 with the interconnection between the substation "Maritsa East" in Bulgaria to the substation "Nea Santa" in Greece. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u88	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Nikolov, you have the opportunity to reply in which to complete your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u89	Dear Minister, thank you. It is good that the Electrosystem operator has fought for these projects and for their funding. In any case, this will increase the capacity of the network, make our network part of the regional and European network. In any case, this will increase the capacity and the transmission of electricity both to Bulgaria and outside Bulgaria, which will inevitably help market prices in the region to be relatively uniform so that there are no such major imbalances. We expect, of course, the electrical system operator to be able to include capacity in the intraday system, so that within the day quantities of electricity can be imported so as to help the possible supply curve. Therefore, my question is: how will these projects help this process of connectivity between the countries in the region, and how will this help the Bulgarian independent electricity exchange for its connectivity with neighbouring countries' exchanges? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u90	Thank you. Here you are, Madam Minister, you have the opportunity to complete your reply. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nikolov, the question you have really raised is very important and relevant. It is the essence of what is practically intended to achieve the Power System Operator, on the one hand, to ensure security of supply. The construction of such infrastructure, the investments in its modernisation, mean precisely this investment in security of supply, an investment in better quality of the offered service by the Electricity System Operator. And something that is extremely important is another step towards the market integration of the Bulgarian electricity market. Without the necessary infrastructure, this market integration of Bulgaria with our neighbouring countries will not be possible. It is indeed extremely happy that the Power System operator has been able to apply and receive funding under the Connecting Europe Facility, an opportunity that will really give us a very serious boost towards the security of our system and to our market integration. Let us hope that all of this will go according to the plan drawn up by the operator, and what has been undertaken as appropriate deadlines and commitments will be fulfilled so that in 2023 these projects, which I informed you about, are indeed a fact. They are large, significant projects not only for Bulgaria, but for the whole region as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-05-17.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question within the framework of today's parliamentary control. With this, we completed the living room and the weekly Parliamentary Work Programme. The next regular session of parliament will be on 29 May 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
