ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention the Project for a Work Programme of the National Assembly 5 Today is the first Wednesday of the month. You know that proposals are being made by the parliamentary groups under art. 53, para. 8 " There are no such proposals. "1." Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Importer is Daniela Daritkova, 31 May 2019. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 22 May 2019. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 26 February 2019. Adopted in the first vote on 27 March 2019. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importers are Maria Belova and a group of MPs, 31 May 2019. 5. Hearing of the Minister of Health on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the current state, problems and prospects of transplant activity in Bulgaria. Importer is Daniela Daritkova, 4 June 2019. Point 1 for Thursday, 6 June 2019 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Political Parties. Importers are Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs, 16 June 2017; and the Council of Ministers, 28 May 2019. Point 2 for Thursday, 6 June 2019 7. Draft decision for privatization of a part of the property of the Port of Vidin. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 20 May 2019. Point 3 for Thursday, 6 June 2019 8. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of Hungary on settlement of real estate issues for the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 27 May 2019. Point 4 for Thursday, 6 June 2019 9. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importers are Andon Donchev and a group of MPs, 27 February 2019; the Council of Ministers, 5 April 2019; and the Council of Ministers, 30 May 2019. Point 5 for Thursday, 6 June 2019 10. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer is the Council of Ministers, 22 May 2019. Point 1 for Friday 7 June 2019 11. Parliamentary control "Friday 7 June 2019 after the conclusion of the first item of the meeting.' Please vote. They voted 170 MPs: 141, none, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. My fellow Members, I would like, at the beginning of today's sitting, to offer my sincere congratulations to our fellow Muslims and colleagues on the occasion of Ramadan Bayram. I wish you your hearts were filled with kindness, compassion. I wish you the health and well-being of your families. And most importantly, I wish you the days to be filled with love, because love is the highest gift of all of us, regardless of religion, ethnicity and political affiliation. Happy Thanksgiving! Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I congratulate the great Muslim holiday of Ramadan Bayram of our Muslim brothers and sisters in Bulgaria. I want to wish them, on behalf of the parliamentary group and personally to be alive and well, to be still tolerant, still loving, to be still patriots, and to be alive and healthy, and their families. The great Muslim holiday of Ramadan Bayram comes after the month of Ramadan the sacred month of Ramadan. This year he coincided with the election campaign. We have had the opportunity of hundreds of meetings with the Bulgarian Muslims to be convinced of the virtues they possess, to be convinced of tolerance once again, to be convinced that love, mercy and humility are raised in a way of communication for the Bulgarian Muslims, and to tell them that Bulgaria is grateful for their tolerance, peace and creation, and as Mr. Hans van Baale said, the President of ALDE, at the Council of Demir Baba. As you, dear brothers and sisters of Muslims, address us Christians on Easter with............. with.............................. with.......................................................... [[Long applause from DPS, single applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Adamov, here is a statement on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Let us also join you in congratulations on Ramadan Bayram. Let me give on behalf of our parliamentary group our warmest congratulations on the occasion of Ramadan Bayram, wishing all Muslims health, happiness and prosperity. Let this holiday, which teaches us wisdom, make us even better, even more responsible, grow our mutual respect and work together for our common future. I wish you, your families, health, well-being and togetherness. We believe that all Muslims welcome Ramadan Bayram with dignity and optimism by opening their hearts to their neighbor. Let the coming Ramadan Bayram bring to all very pleasant emotions, be with your loved ones and give, and receive forgiveness! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Adamov. We continue with the bills and draft decisions from 29 May to 4 June 2019: Annual Activity Report of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2018 and Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2018, part of which is the Financial Supervision Commission's budget implementation report for 2018. Importer is the Financial Supervision Commission. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Following the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2018, the importer is the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Annual report on the activities of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2018. The importer is Dimitar Lazarov. Draft amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importers are Maria Belova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2018. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. The importer is Daniela Daritkova. Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities in 2018. The Supreme Judicial Council is the importer. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Messages: Yesterday, on 4 June 2019, was received and sent to the MPs General Project "A draft amendment and supplement to the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage, adopted on the first vote on 29 May 2019. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that it has authorised by its own orders: - participation in the training of military servicemen with state weapons, equipment and equipment, with combat equipment and transport vehicles from the service.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The training is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2019 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other States or organizations, armed forces; - participation in a multinational study on the time from 6 to 18 June 2019 and the dispatch of military personnel from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to the territory of the Republic of Northern Macedonia with equipment, ammunition and equipment; - participation in a multinational exercise in the Republic of Serbia for the time 2 to 18 June 2019 and the dispatch of troops from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notifications were received on 30 and 31 May 2019 with entry No 903-09-28, entry No 903-09-29, entry No 903-09-30 and submitted to the Defence Commission. On 3 June 2019 a report was received on a follow-up assessment of the impact of the Anti-Corruption Act and on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property awarded by the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics on the grounds of art. 28, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In accordance with the requirements laid down in art. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly, an annex to the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, the report will be published on the website of the National Centre for Parliamentary Studies. On 31 May 2019, with entry No 911-00-4, the National Assembly received a Report on Financial Management, Control and Internal Audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2018. The material was provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the Law on the Fiscal Council and the automatic corrective mechanisms in the National Assembly, a statement of the Fiscal Council on a Report on the implementation of the budget of the State Social Security for 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and was available at the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO COMPLETION THE COMMISSION'S CONFIGURATION IN REGION POLICY, BLagoSTRATION AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. I submit a draft decision to fill in the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. "The President of the Parliamentary Group of GERB is introduced by Daniela Daritkova. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Vasil Tsvetkov as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 131, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXISTING PROCEEDING CODEX. Who will introduce us to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u6	Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate, and Mrs. Irena Hristova, Head of the Financial Policy Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u7	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 124 MPs: 118, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u8	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May The Commission At a meeting held on 30 May 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The bill proposes: 1. Introduction to the Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on dispute resolution mechanisms relating to taxation in the European Union. 2. In addition, the Commission notes that the transfer pricing analysis is based on an analysis of whether the transfer pricing methodology is based on the arm's length principle and the arm's length principle of the arm's length principle and 3. Recruitment of provisions in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code relating to a letter of formal notice received by the European Commission concerning infringement procedure No 2018/2111 on incorrect transposition of Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. 4. Unification of the reporting threshold by country from multinational groups of undertakings by adopting the threshold provided for in Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. Proposals on the Dispute Resolution Directive aim at improving existing dispute resolution mechanisms arising between the Member States of the European Union on the application and interpretation of double taxation agreements and the Union Arbitration Convention. At present, disputes shall be settled within the framework of the dispute settlement procedure under a mutual agreement based on provisions in the Union Agreements and Arbitration Convention. The Convention also provides for an arbitration procedure for dispute resolution by an advisory committee which is extremely rare. Although these mechanisms are functioning well, they should become more effective and some weaknesses should be overcome, such as the lack of clear rules on access by individuals to the procedure, its duration and the mandatory resolution of the dispute in a binding way. Improving existing procedures is a way of ensuring at European Union level that Member States have more detailed procedural provisions to prevent disputes concerning double taxation and that the persons concerned receive more rights, better awareness of the procedure and the possibility to rely on the parties to be forced to achieve binding results. The proposed amendments improve the procedures and mechanisms in force without being replaced. The Draft Law provides rules to build up and improve existing mechanisms by regulating the rights and obligations of the persons concerned by the issue and the competent authorities of the Member States concerned, the time limits and conditions under which individual stages of the procedure should be carried out, the right of persons to refer to the competent administrative court in the event of refusal of the competent authority to accept the complaint where the authority does not appoint an independent expert to participate in the advisory committee or does not apply the agreement reached, as well as in other cases of inaction. The scope of the procedure proposed by the Bill is wider than that of the Arbitration Convention of the Union, which is limited to disputes relating to tax pricing and the addition of profits to the places of business. The proposed rules provide for the application of disputes relating to the interpretation and application of double taxation agreements and the Union Arbitration Convention in particular where the same income or property is taxed in two or more countries. The project also proposes the introduction of rules for the preparation of tax pricing documentation in relation to the need to improve tax legislation in this area. The transfer pricing documentation will be prepared to demonstrate by taxable persons the market nature of the commercial and financial relations with related parties. There is also a duty to prove at present in the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, but there are no clear and specific rules on how to prove and the necessary content. In establishing the national rules for drawing up the documentation, the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in this area are adopted, as well as the recommendations of the Code of Conduct regarding the tax pricing documentation for related undertakings in the European Union adopted on 27 June 2006 by the Council of the European Union. Until now, there are no special rules in the Bulgarian tax legislation concerning the information to be collected and provided by the debtors for the purposes of setting market prices when dealing with related parties. The order of Art. 116, para. 2 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code only obliges persons to demonstrate compliance of their prices with market prices, but it is not specified how to do so and what information would be necessary for that purpose. The transfer pricing documentation consists of a local file which includes information on the activity, controlled transactions (trades with related parties) and the methods applied to determine market prices. In the case of persons belonging to a multinational group of undertakings, they should also have a summary file containing group information, including organisational structure, activity, controlled transactions, functions of group entities and the applied tax pricing policy. The project also lays down time limits for the preparation of individual parts of the documentation (local and summary dossier). The local dossier must be prepared by 31 March of the year following the year to which it relates. This period shall be consistent with the period for submitting the annual tax return under art. 92 of the Corporate Income Tax Act. This period is also in line with the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of Tax Pricing for Multinational Enterprises and Tax Administrations from 2017, which note that the local file must be prepared later than the deadline for submitting the tax return for the financial year in question. The draft also proposes the clarification of provisions in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code relating to a letter of formal notice received by the European Commission concerning infringement procedure No 2018/2111 on incorrect transposition of Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. It is also proposed to align the threshold for reporting by countries of multinational groups of undertakings, irrespective of whether the final parent undertaking is resident for tax purposes of the Republic of Bulgaria or of another country or jurisdiction, by adopting the threshold provided for in Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and Measure 13 of the BEPS project (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) on the application of measures against the reduction of the tax base and the transfer of profits to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Following the discussion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for the bill so proposed, and its discussion ended with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly with 16 votes for the Council to support a bill for amendment and supplement of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Who's gonna fill us in on this report? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u10	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May The Commission At its regular meeting on 30 May 2019, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Georgi Stoykov, Senior Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy, Mrs. Desislava Kaludova. Director of the Directorate for Double Tax Prevention and Ms. Natalia Cherneva Deputy Director of the Directorate for Tax Policy. The draft was presented by Mrs Velkova, who stressed that its main objectives are: the introduction into the Bulgarian legislation of the requirements of Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on dispute resolution mechanisms relating to taxation in the European Union; the introduction of rules for the preparation of tax pricing documentation; the clarification of provisions in the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code relating to an official notification letter received by the European Commission concerning infringement procedure No 2111 on incorrect transposition of Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation; the uniformisation of the threshold for reporting by countries of multinational groups of undertakings, taking into account the threshold laid down in Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. Proposals relating to the Dispute Resolution Directive aim at improving existing mechanisms for the resolution of cases arising between the Member States of the European Union on the application and interpretation of double taxation agreements and the Union Arbitration Convention. At present, disputes shall be settled within the framework of the dispute settlement procedure under a mutual agreement based on provisions in the Union Agreements and Arbitration Convention. The Convention also provides for an arbitration procedure for dispute resolution by an advisory committee which is extremely rare. These mechanisms are functioning well, but they should become more effective and some weaknesses should be overcome, such as the lack of clear rules on access by individuals to the procedure, its duration and the binding resolution of the dispute in a binding way. Improving existing procedures is a way of ensuring at European Union level that Member States have more detailed procedural provisions to prevent disputes concerning double taxation and that the persons concerned receive more rights, better awareness of the procedure and the possibility to rely on the parties to be forced to achieve binding results. The proposed amendments improve the procedures and mechanisms in force without being replaced. This is a way of ensuring at European Union level that, on the one hand, Member States have more detailed procedural provisions to prevent disputes concerning double taxation, but on the other hand, they have sufficient flexibility to agree on a mechanism of their choice. The bill offers rules that build and improve existing mechanisms. The rights and obligations of the persons concerned by the issue and of the competent authorities of the Member States concerned shall be regulated. The time limits and conditions under which the individual stages of the procedure should be carried out shall be determined, the right of persons to appeal to the competent administrative court in the event of refusal of the competent authority to accept the complaint where the authority does not appoint an independent expert to participate in the advisory committee or does not apply the agreement reached, as well as in other cases of omission. The scope of the procedure proposed by the Bill is wider than that of the Arbitration Convention of the Union, which is limited to disputes relating to tax pricing and the addition of profits to the places of business. The project also proposes the introduction of rules for the preparation of tax pricing documentation in relation to the need to improve tax legislation in this area. The transfer pricing documentation will be prepared to demonstrate by taxable persons the market nature of the commercial and financial relations with related parties. The obligation to prove exists at this time, but there are no clear and specific rules on how to prove and the necessary content. Until now, there are no special rules in the Bulgarian tax legislation concerning the information to be collected and provided by the debtors for the purposes of setting market prices when dealing with related parties. The provisions only oblige persons to demonstrate the conformity of their prices with market prices, but it is not specified how to do so and what information would be necessary for that purpose. This gap in legislation creates uncertainty and uncertainty in the debtors in justifying the market nature of the prices of transactions between related parties, all the more so that the burden of proof is on the debtor. The transfer pricing documentation consists of a local file which includes information on the activity, controlled transactions, transactions with related parties, and the methods applied to determine market prices. In the case of persons belonging to a multinational group of undertakings, they should also have a summary file containing group information, including organisational structure, activity, controlled transactions, functions of group entities and the applied tax pricing policy. The draft also lays down time limits for the preparation of the separate parts of the documentation, a local and summary file, and provides for the clarification of provisions in the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code relating to a letter of formal notice received by the European Commission concerning infringement procedure No 2018/2111 on incorrect transposition of Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. It is also proposed to align the threshold for reporting by country by multinational groups of undertakings, irrespective of whether the final parent undertaking is resident for tax purposes of the Republic of Bulgaria or of another country or jurisdiction, taking into account the threshold laid down in Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. After the discussion and the vote held with 12 votes, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. Mr. Kalfin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u12	♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May The Commission At its meeting on 4 June 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Natalia Cherneva, Deputy Director of Tax Policy and Ms. Anna Bachvarova, Senior Expert at the Directorate of Tax Policy and by the National Revenue Agency: Mrs. Desislava Kaludova. Director of the Directorate for Double Taxation Benefits. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Cherneva, who pointed out that it aims to introduce the requirements of Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on dispute resolution mechanisms in relation to taxation in the European Union, as well as rules on the preparation of tax pricing documentation. The provisions of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC) relating to an official notification letter received by the European Commission concerning infringement procedure No 2111 concerning incorrect transposition of Council Directive 2011/16/EU on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation shall be revised. The Law proposes uniformising the threshold for reporting by country by country from multinational groups of undertakings by adopting the threshold laid down in Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. It added that it proposed rules governing the rights and obligations of the persons concerned by the dispute and of the competent authorities of the Member States concerned; the time limits and conditions under which the individual stages of the procedure should be carried out; the right of persons to appeal to the competent administrative court in the event of refusal of the competent authority to accept the complaint and in other cases of omission. The proposed rules are intended to apply to disputes relating to the interpretation and application of an Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation and the Union Arbitration Convention where the same income or property is taxed in two or more Member States. The Law introduces rules for the preparation of tax pricing documentation concerning the need to improve tax legislation by adopting the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in this area, as well as the recommendations of the Code of Conduct with regard to the tax pricing documentation for related undertakings in the European Union. The discussion was attended by MPs Krum Zarkov and Pencho Milkov. Mr. Krum Zarkov pointed out that he supports the objectives of the Bill, but will abstain, as separate provisions should be refined between the first and second votes, and noted that he would work constructively to refine the texts. In response to a question by Mr. Milkov, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that the aim of the bill is to create clear criteria, facilitate the process and risk analysis. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, and 5 votes for abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Kalfin. Are we going to have a motive for the importer? I can't see. I'm opening the debate. Colleagues, come in for a statement. Mrs. Stoyanova, you first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, fellow Members. The reports were very detailed, however, with their detail they covered all the changes that are being made in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, but I want to focus in my speech on two main things that are changing and are actually the essence of this bill. First of all are the texts relating to the application of a European Union Directive on dispute resolution mechanisms in taxation. Such mechanisms also exist at the moment,... negotiation mechanisms, discussions, ultimately settling by mutual agreement between the Member States of these disputes. Although not so often, there are such disputes. This mechanism is positive both for each of the parties involved in it and for the companies concerned, because if such a mechanism does not work properly, if it is not used at all, it means that all disputes should pass through the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is labour-intensive, financial and ultimately prolongs the time to settle these disputes. This mechanism exists, but with it, unfortunately, so far are not exactly and clearly described the steps that need to be walked, the procedures that need to happen, the deadlines in which they need to happen. This is precisely the purpose of the change in the directive........ to our Tax-Safe Procedure Code, so that by regulating it precisely, really unambiguously to be respected by all parties. The other thing that is important, in addition to improving and in particular signing the procedure and the deadlines, is that there is a must of the decisions to which this arbitration reaches. So far, there have been no clear texts in this direction. Very often, although it came to a certain agreement, it did not actually apply. Now there are requirements for binding decisions made under these agreements. The third point in this direction is that, so far, what has been written in the directive and the Rules that have been applied have been solely and solely about the transfer pricing between the various Member States of the European Union, and now, with this addition, we are extending the scope to all taxes, not only to profit taxes, but to all taxes that are subject to the double taxation agreements between the different countries. This is important for both companies and the Member States an important change which aims precisely to ease the solution and to make it happen more quickly and effectively. The second, which has a large share in these amendments, is the introduction of rules for drawing up the tax pricing documentation. We all know that transfer pricing is actually the mechanism by which profits are transferred most often to multinational companies from one country to another, when we have different taxation in one country and the other. Thus, very often companies that are located and registered in Bulgaria, but are part of multinational companies and are owned by multinational companies, namely through similar tax pricing of the goods and services they use, transfer some of their profits elsewhere and not tax them in Bulgaria. And so far, in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, we have texts that require, in checks and revisions, taxable persons to prove compliance with their prices with market prices, but so far we have not had a clear written way of doing so and what documents are required. The regulation of the way and of the documents is, of course, for the benefit of the persons and the tax administration, because there will be prior clarity of their relations, it will not be necessary to require more in the course of the revision, and more documents either to be recognised or not to recognise one or other documents. These proposals are correct and, in my opinion, will be in favour of both sides of the control bodies and of the taxable persons. However, what we are talking about here is a preliminary documentation drawn up in the so-called "local file', in which each taxable person above a certain threshold, of course, carries out transactions between related persons, should draw up such a dossier. In addition, there is also a deadline for the file for 31 March of the following year, and a very serious penalty for its absence. I think that we should think carefully between first and second readings, even though the threshold is high, whether this is a necessary requirement and whether it will not be an additional administrative burden on those taxable persons who are not part of multinational companies but are only related Bulgarian persons. In this respect, even if at some point there is an element of tax pricing, it is not at risk because they apply the same tax rate. It is ultimately implemented by one or the other person and the amount of profit tax is paid into the budget. This does not, of course, exclude the verification and application of the transfer pricing, because there may be cases where loss undertakings take part of the profits of other undertakings in order to avoid. What I am talking about is when both related taxable persons really tax their profits by 10% as much as the Bulgarian tax. Furthermore, the fine for the absence of a local file which is not presented to the tax authorities but must be available at any time it is requested is quite serious. We really need to consider and check whether the requirements of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development necessarily provide similar requirements for those taxable persons who are not part of multinational companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Christova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to present our reservations about some texts in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, which, by the way, coincide with the disagreements on the part of the business which participated in the public discussion of this bill. The first thing we do not agree with, and the business disagrees because we are committed to defending small and medium-sized businesses, that is, as Mrs. Stoyanova said, the inclusion in the requirement to prepare documents for profit pricing and for legal persons, both local and foreign, who carry out their activities in the Republic of Bulgaria, to prepare one for transactions between connected persons that are internal transactions and not only for cross-border transactions. In our view, this is not necessary because they are subject to the same taxation, and this must be mandatory for legal entities engaged in cross-border transactions with related parties. I would like to draw attention to the fact that even the importers themselves of the Bill in their motives have pointed out as a prerequisite for its introduction: in recent years, tax pricing has become a major priority for countries around the world in an increasingly global economy. Currently, around 60% of world trade in goods and services is being carried out within multinational groups. As a result of a deviation from transaction prices in transnational groups, the tax base of countries could seriously be jeopardised. Therefore, the fair distribution of the tax base between the individual jurisdictions in which separate divisions of these groups operate becomes a key issue. In other words, the importers themselves point out that the main role, the main presumption of this change, which is laid down in the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, is in order to avoid the transfer of taxable revenue to multinational companies from countries with a higher tax rate to lower taxation countries. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these changes are being introduced on the basis of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Manual, but this is not necessarily done for internal transactions as, for example, in Germany and in Belgium, the requirements for this tax pricing documentation are required only for cross-border transactions with related parties. The second that we do not agree with is the very short and unrealistic deadline, which is indicated in the changes - 31 March of the following year, after the year for which this documentation is drawn up. Business also disagrees with these deadlines. They coincide with a lot of administrative work by reporting companies, tax returns. We propose that this deadline be until 30 September, when the deadline for the submission of the correction tax returns is fixed. We also disagree with the high sanctions imposed in the absence of such documentation from 0,5% to 0,1%, pay attention to the total value of all transactions between connected parties, which is very high as a value. We propose that there be an upper limit to this sanction. I would like to note that many of the texts are vague. In my opinion, they are made as a literal translation from English, there are many controversial moments that need to be clarified and explained. This is even more a prerequisite for reducing the penalty, as there can also be pressure from the tax administration to companies that are obliged to draw up such documentation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. Are there any lines regarding the speech of the National Representative Dora Hristova? There are no requests for lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Turnovalysky. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We've heard the detailed reports on the proposed changes, we've heard the previous ones. The changes are really important, yes, they are specific, but they decide or try to solve serious problems. I'd divide them into two groups. The first group of issues that are trying to be resolved by transposition of the requirements of Directive EU 2017/1852 to improve mechanisms for resolving international tax disputes, as well as to refine already introduced texts with previous amendments to the DPC under Directive 2011/16 of the European Union. The second group of changes that have been proposed are related to the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in relation to the transfer pricing documentation, which will solve very serious problems, but we have a lot of comments on what is proposed, and in this direction will be my speech. The aim of the proposed amendments is to introduce requirements to improve dispute resolution mechanisms in relation to taxation in the European Union and to achieve greater efficiency and address certain shortcomings in legislation. The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code lays down the rights and obligations of the persons concerned by the dispute and of the competent authorities in the Member States concerned, the time limits and stages of the procedure, the right of persons to appeal the decision of the competent authority before the Administrative Court where the complaint is not accepted and to appeal cases where the competent authority has not allowed an independent expert or other cases of omission. According to the importer, the proposed texts must ensure the legal certainty of taxable persons and avoid unwanted double taxation. I believe that this would be absolutely true if the importer had further developed the procedure and introduced an opportunity that exists in the other Member States, namely a procedure for issuing a preliminary pricing agreement in Bulgaria, which would have achieved full efficiency of the process and indeed greater legal certainty for the taxable persons. The introduction of such serious changes in tax legislation requires a serious and thorough analysis in order to achieve the objectives set for the effectiveness of the procedure, to reduce the administrative burden, of course, and to legal certainty for taxable persons. Hardly between the two readings, colleagues, we will be able to propose and introduce the preliminary pricing assessment procedure in Bulgaria, but I turn to the importers: let in-depth analysis be carried out, review the practice in the other Member States of the European Union that have introduced this procedure and, as soon as possible, propose such a change and such an opportunity, because we believe that this will ease both business and administrative burden, and will make the process much easier for these disputes. The second group of changes related to the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development: as a philosophy. Yes, we accept it. The Bulgarian tax legislation is not further developed in the field of tax pricing and transactions between related parties. Only art. 116, para. 2 of the PDK says that in transactions between related parties we should have market prices.. we have the regulation that determines the methodology of market prices. This is really not enough, and we need to have changes in this regard. With the proposals made for a severe procedure for drawing up a local summary file, with some very short deadlines, when it comes to annual tax closure, with some unexplained sanctions, I believe that we are not achieving either legal certainty or a reduction in the administrative burden on the contrary, these problems are deepening. I believe that they are not necessary because the Bulgarian tax legislation......................................... requires taxable persons to prove transactions between connected persons and market prices. In the Bulgarian law there are sanctions in this respect and there is no need to have new sanctions only because on 1 April a company does not have a local file, as was the recommendation of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. I also think that we can think about it and we will make proposals between first and second readings in terms of both the time limits and the circle of persons who are obliged to carry out this procedure. I've already told you about the amount of sanctions. Between first and second readings, we will make our proposals, but we generally take this as the right approach as part of the fight against tax fraud. Together with you in this Chamber, we must make this procedure more effective and better in order to have an effect on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? There are no other statements on the subject of the draft law under consideration. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. They voted 121 MPs: 85, none, abstention 36. The proposal has been adopted and, with this and the first vote, the bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 902-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 May 2019. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I request that the period for proposals between the first and second readings be extended by seven days or a total of 14 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u21	Thank you. We are voting on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal to extend the period between first and second readings of 14 days is seven days. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the daily program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON AWAKE RIGHTS AND HIS NEIGHBOURHOOD RIGHTS. Mrs. Alexandrova, would you like to introduce us to the Second Voting Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for a procedure for the admission of Mr. Rumen Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u23	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal for admission to Mr. Dimitrov's room. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u24	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Copyright and Related Rights Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u25	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the title of the Law. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u26	Paragraph 1 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94b1 the following amendments 1. In para. 4 t. 6 is amended as follows: It's six. certified copies of two or more contracts under which holders of rights empower the applicant for collective management of rights and where the application is for registration under art. 94c, para. 3.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In para. 6 after the words "OB', L 257/73 of 28 August 2014) The Annex is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u27	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for § 1 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for § 1 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94q the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. The 5th sentence fourth is amended as follows: The members of the committee shall elect a chairman and may adopt rules of employment. 2. In para. The second sentence of the sentence of 7 is replaced by the second word of the Committee. 3. In para. 8 after the words "al." The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u29	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text for § 2 by importer in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The proposal for the wording of § 2 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u30	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by importer for § 3. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union does not consider that there is a need for the Court of Justice of the European Union to determine whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 words in agreement with the registered organizations under art. 94b and the representative organisations of the users shall be deleted and sentences shall be created second, third and fourth: the Minister of Culture or the Deputy Minister authorised by him shall require an opinion from the registered collective management organisations and from the representative organisations of the users. The opinion shall be delivered within 14 days of receipt of the request. The absence of an opinion does not stop the entry procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u33	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting § 4 by text of an importer in an version proposed by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u34	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Reg. 94z, para. 2 the information or documents referred to in para. 2 shall be added after the words the collective management company. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u35	Are there any speeches on the proposal for § 5? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 5. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u36	There is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95c, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: The collective management agencies, when making claims or requesting the imposition of measures, shall not establish individual management rights, respectively, for the protection of their members, made public in the list under art. 94y, al. 1, t. 10, and related foreign organisations for collective management of rights entered in the register under art. 94d, para. 3, p. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u37	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 6 with the text presented. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u38	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: sc. (1) The infringements under art. 97 shall be established by an act which shall be drawn up by officials appointed by order of the Minister of Culture. (2) Officials under para. 1 shall be entitled to: 1. carry out on-the-spot checks and documents; 2. require access to the controlled objects; 3. require the documents necessary for carrying out checks; 4. seized durable material media containing objects protected by law related to the infringement; 5. use automated means of control to detect violations under art. 97; 6. use a specialist - technical assistant; 7. give mandatory orders for the removal of non-compliances and violations of the law; 8. require assistance from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the municipalities and the town halls in or on the occasion of the inspections under point 8. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. The creation of para. 4. The use of automated means of control under para. 2, p. 5 shall be determined by order of the Minister of Culture or by the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u39	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 6 which becomes § 7 in favour of the text of the importer. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u40	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98a The following 1. In para. 2 after the word "proofs" "including durable material media which are seized" shall be added. 2. In para. 3 the words the person responsible for the actions shall be replaced by the person responsible under art. 98, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u41	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We vote on the import text in the version proposed by the Commission to § 7, which becomes § 8. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u42	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Article 98b is amended as follows: "Contribution for cooperation" Art. 98b. The person examined shall be required to: 1. ensure unobstructed access to the checked objects; 2. assist the officials referred to in Article 2. 98, para. 1; 3. provide the requested by the officials under art. 98, para. 1 documents, durable material media containing objects protected by the law, as well as other evidence.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u43	Statements? I won't. We are voting in the version proposed by the Commission in favour of the text of the importer for § 8, which becomes § 9. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u44	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 98b1: suppliing of an act establishing an administrative infringement of sole traders and legal persons Art. 98b1. (1) Where the violator is a sole trader or legal person, the act establishing the administrative infringement shall be served against the signature of the trader, the legal representative of the legal person or person authorised by him. (2) Where it is drawn up in the absence of the intruder, the act shall be sent: 1. in paper form by post with a registered letter with a return receipt of the address of management or correspondence entered in the relevant register led by the Registry Agency or 2. as an electronic image of the paper medium by means of an electronic message signed with a qualified electronic signature, under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services, at an e-mail address specified in a statutoryly regulated register in which the addressee or address is entered in an information system for secure service. The sending of the electronic message shall be certified by means of an electronic time stamp referred to in Section 6 of Chapter III of Regulation (EU) 910/2014 or a reproduction of the electronic image of the message in paper form and its identity shall be certified by signature of the official on each page and shall be attached to the file. (3) The act sent in the mail shall be deemed to have been served on the date on which the return receipt was signed by the trader, by the legal representative of the legal person or by their proxy or employee appointed to receive documents and messages. (4) The act sent by e-mail shall be deemed to have been served when, within 7 days of sending the e-mail, the addressee sends confirmation of its receipt by means of a reverse e-mail message, activation of an electronic reference or withdrawal from a secure service information system. (5) When the act is served with a return receipt and an electronic message, a later date shall be considered as the date of service. (6) Where the act cannot be served in accordance with para. A message for its composition shall be placed immediately on the notice board and on a special section of the website of the Ministry of Culture, visible at its initial loading. The message shall also indicate the date of its installation. (7) When within 14 days of the placing of the message under para. 6 the person does not appear in the Ministry of Culture for the application and signature of the act, the actor notes this in the act, the same applies to the file and is considered to be served regularly on the day of the registration.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u45	Are there any statements on the proposal for a text of § 9, which becomes § 10? I can't see. We vote on the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 9, which becomes § 10. Voted 101 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u46	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the Minister in charge of culture' or by a person in charge of culture are replaced by "the Minister of Culture' or by a Deputy Minister authorised by him. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: (2) A copy of the criminal decree shall be given against the signature of the intruder. (3) Where the criminal order cannot be served on the sole trader or the legal person of the address specified by him or at the address of management or correspondence entered in the relevant register, led by the Registry Agency, shall apply respectively art. 98b1, para. 6 and 7, including when refusing to obtain a copy of the criminal decree, and the marking shall be carried out by the authority under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u47	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 10, which becomes § 11. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u48	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98c1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A title is created: The authority of the mayors of municipalities. 2. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 2 sentence first and para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4 sentence first and para. The following points are inserted
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u49	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the proposal of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 11, which becomes § 12. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u50	Under § 12.. the text of the importer. There is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 2 shall be inserted. 21: 21. Automated control funds are standardised or certified by an independent organisation established in the territory of the European Union, appliances and/or computer programs which automatically detect the use of legally protected objects in the presence or absence of a control body and in the presence or absence of the person inspected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u51	Are there any statements on this text? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 13, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u52	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u53	Are there any statements regarding the proposed name of the division? I can't see. We are voting on the name of the division. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u54	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The administrative proceedings under Title II of this Act shall be completed in the new order, which shall not be concluded before the Minister of Culture until the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u55	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal by importer for § 13, which becomes § 14, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 91, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u56	According to § 14 "Investing text'. There is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) the text before t. 1 shall be amended as follows: the Member shall draw up and adopt an annual report which he shall submit to the National Assembly by the end of the second quarter of the following year. Within the same time limit, the report shall also be made available to the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers. The report shall contain: (bb) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." a review of the state of play and an assessment of the development of competition in the markets of electronic communications networks and/or services; (b) A new para shall be created. 3: In addition to data provided by enterprises, when preparing the report under para. 1 The Commission may also use other publicly available information from official sources, as well as publicly available market surveys. Market surveys by sentence must first be representative and quantitative, the data in them being comparable to data collected by the Commission, must be carried out in accordance with the principles and criteria of statistical activity and by a methodology agreed with the Commission and published on its website. c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The Commission shall publish the report on its website. 2. Article 337 is amended as follows: Art. 337. (1) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on administrative infringements and penalties, insofar as no other order has been established by this law. (2) The violations of art. 335 shall be established by acts drawn up by those empowered under Article 324. 312, para. 1 employees. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 337a: Art. 337a. (1) Where the violator is a sole trader or legal person, the act establishing the administrative infringement shall be served against the signature of the trader, the legal representative of the legal person or person authorised by him. (2) Where it is drawn up in the absence of the intruder, the act shall be sent: 1. in paper form by post with a registered letter with a return receipt of the address of management or correspondence entered in the relevant register led by the Registry Agency; or 2. as an electronic image of the paper medium by means of an electronic message signed with a qualified electronic signature, under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services, at an e-mail address specified in a statutoryly regulated register in which the addressee or address is entered in an information system for secure service. The sending of the electronic message shall be certified by means of an electronic time stamp referred to in Section 6 of Chapter III of Regulation (EU) 910/2014 or a reproduction of the electronic image of the message in paper form and its identity shall be certified by signature of the official on each page and shall be attached to the file. (3) The act sent in the mail shall be deemed to have been served on the date on which the return receipt was signed by the trader, by the legal representative of the legal person or by their proxy or employee appointed to receive documents and messages. (4) The act sent by e-mail shall be deemed to have been served when, within 7 days of sending the e-mail, the addressee sends confirmation of its receipt by means of a reverse e-mail message, activation of an electronic reference or withdrawal from a secure service information system. (5) When the act is served with a return receipt and an electronic message, a later date shall be considered as the date of service. (6) Where the act cannot be served in accordance with para. A message for its composition shall be placed immediately on the notice board and on a special section of the Commission's website visible at its initial charging. The message shall also indicate the date of its installation. (7) When within 14 days of the placing of the message under para. 6 The addressee does not appear in the committee for the application and signature of the act, the actor notes this in the act, the same applies to the file and is considered to be served regularly on the day of the registration. 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 337b: Art. 337b. (1) On the basis of the acts referred to in art. 337, para. 2 the chairman of the committee or a member of the committee expressly authorised by him, shall issue penal decrees or reasoned resolutions for the termination of administrative criminal proceedings. (2) A copy of the criminal decree shall be given against the signature of the intruder. (3) Where the criminal order cannot be served on the sole trader or the legal person of the address specified by him or at the address of management or correspondence entered in the relevant register, led by the Registry Agency, shall apply respectively art. 337a, para. 6 and 7, including in the event of refusal to obtain a copy of the criminal decree and the marking shall be carried out by the punishing authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u57	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposals for § 14? Here you are, Mr. Mitev, for a statement you have a proposal on this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, in fact, on this text in the Commission and at second reading, and in the working group were held quite lengthy and meaningful debates. In fact, he has undergone a radical change. The Commission was initially entrusted with imperative, mandatory, in any event, to use other publicly available information. Such was the editing of the importing text, which is not from an official source, which was made unknown by whom, unknown where, unknown how. However, in the course of the discussion, it was nevertheless perceived that this information should be from official sources and allowed, including information, to be from publicly available market surveys. The text is supplemented, as you can see, these market studies must meet certain criteria and be representative, quantitative, the data in them being comparable to data collected by the Commission, have been carried out in accordance with the principles and criteria of statistical activity, which, of course, guarantees a large extent that they will not be studies that raise doubts about themselves. However, there remains doubt and this was clearly expressed by representatives of the platform operators in the discussion in the Legal Committee when watching a second reading of the text. It is therefore this supplement, this supplement, which is different from the text by importer, namely that it is added that these studies must be done according to a methodology agreed with the Commission and published on its website. Both in the Commission and now here I believe that this is not enough to be able to have enough confidence from all participants in the electronic communications services market. That is why I propose that after the words 'coordinated with the Commission' to be heard after public consultations'. Such public consultations will aim to be heard and to comply with the opinion of those individuals to be examined. We have too many examples, at least in the sociological studies that are carried out with regard to election results and confidence in political parties, that they do not reflect the real situation, objective truth as it is, so that we can allow ourselves to raise doubts about the participants in the electronic communications services market, because the relevant market study, which will be formalized, as it will become part of the Commission's annual report on the regulation of communications, and in fact we will have a study which, by informally, becomes an official opinion of the Communications Regulation Commission itself, which at this time has the status of an independent regulator, and we have no doubt at this time in its work as such. I therefore believe that such an addition to public consultations should be heard, the opinions of the entities that will be subject to and subject to such market research, without referring to an appropriate procedure in the Law on Electronic Communications. 37 where there is such a provision in relation to decisions taken by the Commission is essential for the development of the electronic communications services sector. I believe that, in such a form, without necessarily following the procedure in the Law, and this is also a sufficient opportunity for operational autonomy on the part of the Commission, on the other hand, also allows for greater confidence on the part of the participants in the electronic communications services market, and in particular platform operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u59	Thank you. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the proposal of the importer in the version proposed by the Commission for § 14, which becomes § 15... [[Definitions.]] Excuse me, Mr. Mitev, I would like you to indicate a specific version and a place for this amendment that you are proposing, because I was based on the fact that your proposal has been examined and adopted by the Commission. Your specific offer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u60	The specific proposal is: Art. 1 (b) 38, para. 3 after the words agreed by the Commission to add the words after the public consultations.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u61	Thank you. First, we are going to vote on Mr. Mitev's proposal, which he made in today's sitting. Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall be replaced by the following: 38, para. 3 to add the text after public consultation. They voted 130 MPs: 14 against 5, abstention 111. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the text proposed by the importer for § 14, which becomes § 15 on the Commission report. Vote 128 MPs: 97, none, abstention 31. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u62	The Commission proposes to establish § 16. ......... 16........................................... In the Law on Protection and Development of Culture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 31, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 98c, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 98c, para. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u63	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 16 by a text reported by the President of the Legal Committee. They voted 129 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 27. The proposal has been adopted and, with this and a second vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 902-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 February 2019 and adopted on the first vote on 27 March 2019. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next point of our daily program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. With the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we will be introduced by the People's Representative Maria Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote on admission to the meeting of the National Assembly for the persons: Mr. Ivan Boyanov
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 118 MPs: 108, against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 954-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 31 May 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 4 June 2019 discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Minister Desislava Taneva, Adelina Stoyanova and Nadezhda Petrova, state experts in the Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, and Hristo Rangelov, Senior Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Legal Consultant in the Directorate of the State Fund of Agriculture. The draft and the reasons for the draft were presented by the National Representative Maria Belova, who noted that the proposed changes are related to the existence of contradictory case law and to the need to refine certain texts, mainly related to the establishment of undue amounts paid and the powers of the Executive Director of the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this respect, the text relating to the way in which the relationship between the Fund and the recipients of loans, State aid, grant and subsidies is regulated, specifying that this is done by administrative contracts or administrative acts. The round of powers which the Executive Director of the State Fund of Agriculture is entitled to delegate to his alternates and to the directors of the Regional Directorates of the Fund, including those resulting under the contract with which the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 and the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, has delegated part of its functions to the State Fund of Agriculture Programme. It is explicitly stated that the Executive Director of the Fund issues acts establishing public government claims under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and decisions imposing financial corrections under Chapter 5a, Section III of the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Those powers will also be able to delegate the Executive Director of the Fund to his alternates and to the directors of the Fund's regional directorates, providing for this transitional provision to apply to acts and decisions already issued before the entry into force of the Act. The minimum threshold for the amounts to be recovered under payment schemes and projects paid by the European funds from 100 to 250 euros is increased. It is explicitly stated that the claims of the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Accordingly, it is envisaged that the appeal against those acts should not suspend their implementation. There is a distinction between the assumptions in which the debt of a grant to be recovered is established by the issuing of a decision imposing a financial correction under the order of LUSIFF, from cases which do not fall within the scope of LUSIF and in which the establishment takes place with the issue of a decision establishing a public state claim. Accordingly, a transitional provision proposes that the order establishing the debt of claims should also apply to decisions and acts issued until the entry into force of the Law. A legal basis shall be established for the Executive Director of the State Fund (SFA), to approve a methodology for determining the amount of the financial assistance to be recovered due to infringements of regulatory or contractual obligations by beneficiaries under the measures and sub-measures of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 to 2013 and the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry agrees with the bill by making concrete proposals to refine the texts. They propose that the minimum threshold for the amounts to be recovered under payment schemes and projects should also apply to those paid by the State budget. As regards the methodology for determining the amount of the grant to be recovered, they propose that between the first and second reading of the bill be provided that it is to be promulgated in the Official Journal. They also propose that the text of the transitional provision be refined by stating that the power of the Executive Director of the Fund to issue acts establishing public government claims under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and decisions imposing financial corrections under the order of LUSIFF, as well as its right to delegate that power, also apply to acts and decisions already issued before the entry of the law. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the Commission stated that there is obviously a need to correct some of the texts of the Law, but expressed doubts that concrete changes would lead to the outcome. They asked why the methodology was not issued by the Managing Authority and noted that the main problem was the decisions issued on the basis of the methodology declared null and void by the Supreme Administrative Court. In conclusion, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill. The State Fund of Agriculture explained that the power to issue decisions to impose financial corrections is entirely to the Executive Director of the State Fund of Agriculture, and there is no way the Ministry in the face of the Managing Authority of the Programme to issue such an act. They explained that in cases where the court eventually ruled that a certain decision imposing financial corrections on which the amount due was determined on the basis of the cancelled methodology was null and void, the Fund had the opportunity to issue it on the basis of the new methodology. GERB's parliamentary group said they would support the Bill and stressed that the reverse effect would only apply to the power of the Executive Director of the Fund to issue acts establishing public government claims and decisions imposing financial corrections and the possibility to delegate this power to its alternates and to the directors of the Fund's regional directorates. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" they said they would support the Bill, but between first and second reading the texts should be refined. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes in favour, without the opposition and 6 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Agricultural Support Act, No 954-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 31 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal to replace the commitment of the Executive Director of the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This appropriation is intended to cover The changes proposed in this bill provide for the debt of a grant due due because of infringements by beneficiaries of measures and sub-measures from rural development programmes, which constitutes a basis for imposing a financial correction. This thing is referred to in art. 70, para. 1, t. 1 9 of LUSIFF to be established by issuing decisions for imposing a financial correction under art. 73 of the same law, and for this purpose there must be a clear distinction between the cases in which a financial correction decision under art. 70 of the cases referred to in Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The practice shows that there are judgments of the court, according to which, after the adoption of the public fund, the State Fund could issue decisions only for the imposition of financial correction. One such interpretation of the Law is certainly incorrect because, with regard to measures under the Rural Development Programme for the two programming products, there is an obligation to comply with a number of specific requirements, criteria and commitments relating to the conditions for granting the aid provided for in sectoral agricultural legislation, in which the Fund has the power to seek the return of the financial assistance paid by them. These violations go beyond the scope of art. No decisions on the imposition of financial corrections shall be issued by LUSIPH 70 and for them. They shall be established by means of an act establishing the public government claim, which will be undoubtedly settled by the proposed Appendix in that para. 7. By adopting these changes, the proposal of the Executive Director of the Fund to approve a methodology will provide for the way to determine the specific amounts of the financial aid to be recovered due to established non-compliances which fall within the scope of both the hypotheses referred to in the newly established and proposed paragraphs 6 and 7, in so far as the non-compliance with para. 7 minimum and maximum amounts of the financial assistance to be recovered and the cases under para. 7 have not been introduced. 6. With the act under art. 70, para. Only minimum and maximum amounts of the financial correction are provided for 2 of the HSESSIF. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall pay attention to the provisions of art. 7a of the Law on Legislative Acts and in view of the reasons of Decision No 15-652 of 14.12.2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court, it is necessary, as you know, the conclusion that the nature of the methodology is a legislative act and should therefore be explicitly provided for an obligation to publish it in the Official Journal. I would also like to refer to another emphasis from the draft law relating to reverse action, which is proposed for certain norms. During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, which took place yesterday, a lot of lively debates were held in this regard. Apart from that, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests in its opinion advocated that, in respect of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft, the text should be refined by giving effect only to the provisions governing the right to issue acts establishing public public claims and its delegation to the officials concerned, and the obligation to recover grants duly described in paragraphs 6 and 7 of art. 27, consider that no retroactive effect should be given in so far as it is not clear which relationships will be affected. In addition, the provision of art. 14, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts, which states that provisions providing for sanctions cannot be given back unless they are lighter than those repealed. In view of everything that has been said so far, my fellow Members, I call on you to support the first-voting bill tabled in its entirety, and subsequently between first and second reading, we have the opportunity to submit proposals for specific editorial texts where necessary, so that, as a result of our work, we can adopt a law which, on the one hand, provides clarity on the nature of the act establishing recovery claims by the beneficiaries of the Fund, and, on the other hand, create a legal delegation for the adoption of a valid methodology for determining the amount of grant to be recovered, i.e. by virtue of a legal act ensuring equal treatment, justice and publicity in determining the amount of financial assistance due in the case of similar infringements of beneficiaries. Thank you for your attention and I expect your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Any lines to Mrs. Dimova's statement? I won't. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a statement. LIGHTS OF PIRALKOVA (BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed successive amendments to the Agricultural Aid Act are the result of identified deficiencies in the order and manner of delegated powers and also of financial corrections imposed over the years. In particular, the period 2007 - 2013, on the basis of which, and objections to the methodology for imposing financial corrections, YOU have determined that the methodology is insignificant. This means that these financial corrections for the period 2007-2013 cannot, in practice, be requested or cannot be reimbursed to the Fund. The new programming period 2014-2020 is also included in the Draft Law. Here we have objections to the inclusion of this period, because, as is known, the Rural Development Programme in the new programming period in the guidelines, which are an official regulatory document and under which the rules are developed and the projects are adopted, these financial corrections are also recorded there, with which the beneficiaries must comply and fulfil their obligations. That is, there is no drama there and there is no need to have a methodology to establish these adjustments. The fact is, Methodics has been canceled. What we're doing right now seems a little illogical and rather hasty. Why? Because with financial corrections, to return to 2007 with a methodology that the Fund will now accept and publish as an official document, regardless of the fact that checks have been carried out, will not solve any problem or issue about those sanctions that should be imposed or imposed over time. In addition, the Bill provides for the retroactive effect of part of the actions and mechanisms of the Executive Director to confirm the methodology and to publish it in the Official Journal. However, it is explicitly stated in the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling that a methodology, if an official document, must be issued either by the Minister of Agriculture or be an act of the Council of Ministers. With this, we are once again getting into some contradiction with the decisions and established norms and creating a prerequisite to make a methodology, to propose it for discussion and, at the same time, not to again be such a regulatory document that would be useful and possible for the Fund to establish a breach. I am also concerned by another fact in this same § 7 relating to the fact that the appeal of the Acts of Methodology does not stop their execution. I am surprised at this proposal because you have an act requiring financial corrections. On the proposed texts they shall enter immediately, irrespective of the decision of the court. But it's not a force majeure circumstance. Such acts or such suspensions of execution have only in laws that threaten people's health... in the Act on Veterinary Treatment, there are such texts in the Law on the Protection of Plants, but then you close an object in order not to spread an epidemic, a disease. In the Plant Protection Act, you have opportunities, if you have not done and have not sanctioned the site concerned, to come up with much more serious problems regarding animal health and human health. Why are we doing this here? What will result from imposing sanctions on a methodology that will be new? We are now publishing for 2007 - 2013, we will demand that these sanctions be returned, and when the court decides that they are unlawful, which will be a fact, because 2007 - 2013 is very distant, has passed a period, the five years in which we have the opportunity to react have passed, then the Fund will repay the funds or will be sanctioned again. We therefore abstained from the support of this bill. However, given the fact that there are many new stages relating to implementation, especially of the Rural Development Programme, especially in the period when it moved on to ISU, it is good to review the texts in force. There are already mechanisms and rules that have shown that they do not act and make it difficult for both the Fund and the Ministry in the performance of their functions. This analysis, made between first and second reading, will correct other problems that arose precisely in this period. We're talking about the new programming period. I repeat that what is currently being proposed will not solve the issue that has been posed as a task. We do not need a methodology at this time because of an expired period, even 2007 "2013" Methodology 2014 "2020" is not necessary. We will abstain from the support of the Bill. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u70	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Will there be lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to the House, we are going to vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 954-01-36, submitted by the National Representative Maria Belova and a group of MPs on 31 May 2019. They voted 133 MPs: for 89, against none, abstentioned 44. The motion is accepted. Before closing the meeting, there is a procedure..... please, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u71	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, please vote on the procedure for proposals between first and second readings to be 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-06-05.u72	The deadline for proposals between first and second readings shall be 3 days. Please, voting mode. They voted 106 MPs: for 76, against 26, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we've exhausted our agenda for today. Tomorrow, 6 June 2019 at 9.00 p.m., regular plenary session. Abandoning session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
