ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the new questions for the period from 8 February to 14 February 2019. A question came in from: - National Representative Dora Yankova to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports, on providing conditions and opportunities for strengthening health physical activity and sport practice. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 February; - National Representative Dora Yankova to Rosen Zhelyazkova, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, on improving the safety of municipal roads and providing conditions for modern municipal road network. Answers should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 February; - National Representative Anton Kutev and Petar Vitanov to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the policy of the Bulgarian Government for guaranteeing Bulgaria's security in the context of exiting the Treaty for the eradication of mid- and short-range missiles of the US and Russia. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 February 2019. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Minister of Internal Affairs Mladen Marinov, to a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Health......................................................................................................... - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Dessislava Gusheva; - Minister of Health......................................................................................................... - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MP Radostin Tanev; - Minister of Youth and Sports.. Krasen Kralev, to a question from the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Dimitar Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy "Mariana Nikolova," to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works - Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science "Krasimir Valchev, to a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy "Biser Petkov," to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov, four questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Donka Simeonova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Health......................................................................................................... - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Yordan Mladenov and Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Finance "Vladislav Goranov," 12 questions from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests - Rumen Porozhanov, to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Georgi Turnovalyski and Manol Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works suppose Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Atanas Kostadinov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Dencho Boyadzhiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Vassil Antonov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works suppose Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Ivan Chenchev and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works - Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Manol Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Valentin Lambev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Alexander Simov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works.. Petya Avramova, to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, on a question from the National Representative Spas Panchev. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We are moving on to debates on the questions of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Procedure? You have the floor, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our procedure is to invite Deputy Minister Nankov in connection with the forthcoming debate. As you know, when he was appointed Deputy Minister, the Prime Minister had given him the role to be responsible for the toll system. Last week Minister Avramova was here, but failed to answer the questions we asked. For this reason, we ask you to call here the Deputy Minister, who is responsible for this portfolio, so that it can still have an effect from the debate and that there may be a person who is competent and competent who can answer us competently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. [[Reply from GERB: "Procedure! "]] I'll give you the floor of procedure, dear Mr. Nenkov. Minister Avramova will answer the questions sufficiently competently. I believe that whether Deputy Minister Nankov will be in the Chamber is a personal decision of Minister Avramova. I will strictly follow the rules in which it is written that Minister Avramova is present. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come in for a procedure, dear Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't know if I can do the reverse procedure or the way I'm doing it... Mr. Chairman, you cannot allow a Member of the National Assembly in this way to insult an institution. Here is Minister Avramova and an argument that almost no one can answer him competently, I think it does not fit the level of the National Assembly and thus insult the institutions somehow. There is a duly elected minister in the appropriate order, which I am sure will answer very adequately to your questions. I don't think you should be looking for an apology from now on because today you're challenging a debate about something I can honestly tell you, and I can't imagine why you're doing it. You're not gonna get any political dividend out of this thing, and that's gonna come out in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman! First of all, my procedure was to invite Mr. Nankov, not Mr. Nenkov. [[(Comments from GERB: You are very original.]] Mr. Nenkov, in the end we do not insult the Minister in any way, but still the Deputy Minister has such a portfolio...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u7	In the manner of my conduct, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u8	Last Friday, the minister didn't answer our questions, and that's why we want the deputy minister who can answer. In the end, it is for the purposes of the debate to come up with some positive result.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Procedure supposed in the manner of conduct. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u10	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members from the reading of the rules and laws in the entire plenary I do not mean just one part! Mr. President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that parliamentary control concerns the ministers. From this room repeatedly the colleagues of this part [[indicating the left part of the plenary]] have asked the question: but why is he present and why do we vote to attend the Deputy Minister of Laws? They're the ministers, aren't they? But now the minister has come and he is fulfilling the rules, fulfilling the laws. Now let the Deputy Minister come. On what grounds should we invite him? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On what grounds do we invite him, or do you really not want to do parliamentary control, but only scandals?! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. You've already heard my opinion on this. We continue with the debates on the questioning by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev. At the meeting of the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev was answered in the meeting on 8 February, Friday, and at the same meeting 59 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria have submitted a proposal for discussions on the questioning together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for a debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the MPs in electronic form on 8 February, Friday and the second draft for a decision by 7 MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB on 14 February, Thursday, and was sent on the same day to the MPs in electronic form. There are two submitted projects, as it became clear. The first is a draft decision submitted by 59 MPs from the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" with No 954-04 from 8 February and registered at 12.11. And the second draft decision was submitted by 7 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB with No 954-02-4 from 14 February 2019, registered at 9.22 pm. I will remind the time for distribution, but in fact who from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will present the proposal and the draft decision? Mr. Danchev, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! By law, the electronic charging system for the use of the Republican Road Network was due to enter into force on 1 January this year. But it became clear that there were problems with the site, the mobile application, the availability of self-service stations at gas stations and border crossings, as well as the verification of whether the car had a screw on the side of the police. In a nutshell, it's total chaos. API experts have justified that the system is new, complex and it is normal that things do not happen in an instant. It is interesting that the complex system, which is new, was supposedly tested from August 2018 to December 17, 2018 and API had more than four months to prepare for the start of the system. Of course, it is unclear exactly what these tests included. After the electronic wine has officially entered into force since 1 January, it has become clear that it is, to put it mildly, difficult to buy. Users had problems buying a bill from the app or site, and most verified terminals for self-loading gas stations were not working or just missing. There was only one terminal at Captain Andreevo's border crossings. We cannot fail to note that a few days ago information leaked into the media, according to which the API itself sabotaged the process of distribution of electronic wineries and caused chaos with the purchase, and at the end of 2018, shortly before the Christmas and New Year holidays, ordered the closure of the assembly of terminals. Converting paper bottles into electronics has been stopped since January 3rd this year and has not worked since then. Why a system of tens of millions of levs did not provide for elementary checks for the eligibility of the input data was never clear. On the other hand, I quote: "The unscrupulous Bulgarian citizens." The question remains even more unclear as to how it is ensured that the period of validity of the paper tart, which is converted into electronic, is correct and corresponds to that which was marked on the paper tart. It turns out that the Road Police Department, which has the right to sanction drivers who do not have a valid bill, can not really understand whether the driver owns a bill at all because the police have no access to the API system. In this regard, the National Toll Management and the Road Police are continuing to carry out joint checks to date. When the electronic winery system started creating problems, citizens tried to contact API but failed. This phone for contacts in the website for buying vending machines bgtoll.bg was actually the same as the one for the current road environment. Due to these and other problems followed several resignations in the API, headed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Agency. In addition, two heads of API and one of the regional minister's advisors split with their posts. As a member of the Board of the Railway Infrastructure Agency, Veselin Davidov, who was responsible for the electronic charging system for the use of the Republican road network, was also released. By the way, only a few days ago This is exactly one month after Prime Minister Boyko Borisov requested the resignation of former boss Anton Antonov. Did anything change from that? Absolutely not! Because the vices of the system were laid down at the very award of the order, because the order was made without regulation, and the necessary legal changes were adapted to the already practically made electronic system. In addition, despite the proposal made by the BSP for Bulgaria, the government refused to construct the state-owned company prescribed by the World Bank for a special purpose to carry out the activities of electronic road charges. During the chaos with electronic wineries in the first days of the new year, it was understood that the company performer "Kapsch Traffic Solutions" who built the system for electronic wineries and tol system were not responsible for the construction of the unfortunate website bgtoll.bg. Apparently, according to the contracting entities for the construction of the toll system, when you give 150 million. lv. for an electronic system, you do not need to get against them and a site through which to collect electronic tolls. In fact, it should be noted here that the recommendations given in the developed strategy and business model by the World Bank on the implementation of the electronic system for electronic collection of tolls are clearly stated that it is not appropriate to use a market-oriented national service provider for selling electronic wineries and this sale should only be made by API. Despite this recommendation made in the report paid dearly by MRRB, API obviously missed out on the scope of the procurement to bet on the creation of software that could be used by potential distributors to sell electronic wineries and accept cash payments. In this sense, it is now clear why intermediaries also appear in the sale of electronic wineries. I note here that, as early as 27 July 2018, members of the Regional Commission of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) requested a copy of the Treaty on the construction of the electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the Republican road network at a distance travelled for vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than three and a half tonnes, tol and based on time for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass of up to three and a half tonnes of electronic wine and the European electronic fee collection service for the distance to be taken included in it, as well as on the anex to that contract. But to this day, we have never had access to it, notice, even in the Secret Section of the National Assembly. Later we learned that the contract and the annex to it are kept secret because obviously there is information in them that once again shows the wickedness of the public procurement and procurement management model. We have learned that with changes in the contract for tol system and electronic bill, a number of essential activities of the project are dropped. The Annex presupposes the removal of essential activities such as the construction of optical connections to the busiest border crossing points. Here we hope Mrs. Avramova will answer: in what connection were these optical connections included in the original range of the order? Building seven instead of the initially scheduled 30 mobile ticketing offices, equipping 195 portal frames instead of the initially planned 320. I remind you that during the questioning we did with Mr. Svilenski last week, we never received an answer from Mrs. Avramova: how many frames will be used for real tol the system and how many are legalized under the Law of Construction on the territory. It should be noted that, according to media publications, the above mentioned waste activities are among the expensive ones for the contractor, the Austrian consortium. Despite their withdrawal, the value of the contract remained unchanged, namely around 180 million. lv. Everything that has been said so far corresponds to the logical question in which the contracting authorities of the order for the making of the toll system can not also take, namely: was there any pressure on the contractor of the contract when building the system to use specific subcontractors? An extremely important issue that is raised by all interested parties, including road carriers and freight representatives, is: when will the toll tariff be presented so that these carriers can prepare for the upcoming changes? The subjecting of this tariff to public consultation is a key moment of communication policy in the introduction of the new road toll system, on which success depends, to a large extent, also the successful enforcement of the new electronic road toll system. In this sense, in the name of transparency and effective spending of public funds on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I propose that the National Assembly take the following: ? RESPONSIBILITY? 1. It shall establish a temporary parliamentary committee to make a full review of the award, conduct and execution of the public procurement for the design, construction and introduction of an electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the Republican road network. The Commission shall be composed of 10 Members of the National Assembly of two from each Parliamentary Group, with a period of two months. 2. Instructs the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to submit to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government a report on the progress and results of the implementation of the electronic system on a monthly basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Dear Mr. Nenkov, please present the proposal for a decision and the reasons of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, Madam Minister, I will begin with the presentation by our Group of the Project for a Decision and then I will try to justify within the next few minutes why we believe that our proposal is more sensible, better, aimed at brightening some... rather in a better connection between citizens and what is happening with the introduction of the electronic system than the BSP colleagues, where I believe that a political effect is being sought with some accusation that there is hardly anything hidden is being done. The establishment of some committee of inquiry, in which, you see, the public procurement experts will investigate what happened under this public procurement contract, provided that there are sufficient control bodies to monitor this thing whether it has been properly carried out or not. Accordingly, my fellow Members in my parliamentary group have proposed an alternative solution, and I hope that BSP colleagues will also support it: ? RESPONSIBILITY? 1. Instructs the Minister for Regional Development and Public Works to provide information every two months on the progress in putting the electronic charging system into service based on time and distance to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. 2. By 31 March 2019, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall establish a public advisory board on the introduction of an electronic fee system based on time and distance travelled with the participation of partner institutions and branch organisations. Certainly, fellow Members, the introduction of such an electronic system can only characterize it as a very serious reform of the road sector that has been waiting for many years. And we have never accepted the Law on Roads and the Law on Roads, and I myself have never expressed an opinion that, you see, since January 1st everything started perfectly, there will be no problems. There's no way this thing's gonna happen in practice. Whenever it comes to reform, especially for such a difficult sector of our economy, it is undoubtedly related to its technical problems. But if we are talking about technical problems, and in the first days of January with the introduction of electronic wineries, up until today, 442,000 have been sold for the same period of last year. A lot of wine. The fact itself does not mean that so many cars have been produced and are moving on the roads, but it means that so many people have bought wineries. Therefore, control is also better. Their very feeling that there is no way to break the law means that it stimulated them to buy more vintages. Therefore, there are fewer intruders. Yes, the fact is that in the first days of January there were problems with the site. However, on January 1st, I was able to convert my electronic bill. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] No, Mr. Svilensky, on the phone, I suppose you did, too, but you're not comfortable in front of the room to say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u15	See if you've converted it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u16	Yeah, I checked it out and it was convoluted. [[Reply of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] I do not deny that there were such cases that there was a lack of certain crossing points of the checkpoint, of the relevant such purchasing machines. The fact that there was a delay with this thing, but within probably ten days all these problems were cleared. Currently, to date, we have an absolutely functioning electronic system for buying wine. I have to tell you that literally a week ago, I had the opportunity to travel, because I went through Austria and Slovenia with the paper tarts that you bought there, and I came back here and I removed them, and I had already removed my wine, and I have to tell you that I felt proud. I felt proud because our government, our country, has done something much more modern than much more developed countries. Look, colleagues, not to go into unnecessary dialogue, but it is a fact that we should be proud of this thing by having the opportunity to travel and see. In fact, we could have chosen some much more elemental option with frames to stop you a few kilometers away to charge you, but we've done something much more modern. We have always said that this year 2019, and also on the World Bank Report, and our intention is for 2019 to be transitional, because we actually have people who use their old paper tarts besides working electronic wineries, they still apply until the date for which they bought them. Therefore, a new very difficult electronic reporting system for large heavy goods vehicles has started since 16 August. Of course he'll probably have his problems there, too, because it's a living system. She needs a lot of work. She needs software clearance, technical error clearance, team training, because that was also one of the obstacles so that everything could go smoothly from January 1st. But, again, we have a working system right now, and I don't see where we're supposed to be looking for a problem. I strongly oppose the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate what? I don't get it! To investigate the public procurement almost. Why investigate the public procurement? Where do you see a problem there? Where did you see a problem there? Where do you see a problem, given that the procedure itself has been moving between the KPC for two years, between the SAC... [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "This is the problem"]] ... sufficient institutions, sufficiently competent authorities have had a bearing on this order and, you see, the MPs of BSP, even though there are two from each parliamentary group, come on, not to qualify you only, but we, right, as the great public procurement experts will assess what, why and how this public procurement was conducted, whether it is lawful. I'm sorry, but this is not serious. This is an absolute interference in the work of other institutions. If you have any signal, we have always said that if you have any signal, something that bothers you, it is not parliament's job to play some judge or some courthouse to decide whether someone is right or wrong. I find in your desire with this Project a solution only and only a search for some political dividend by causing a scandal, and it is an exact scandal where I do not think there is any problem. Yes, technical problems can always exist, but really no other problem. The fact that at the moment you can buy an electronic bill; the very fact that your paper tarts are still valid; the very fact that more than 1500 cars are being checked per day has already appointed a sufficient number of employees who are trained with the so-called police and can stop you; the very fact that we have sold 442 thousand more bottles means that we are on the right track. I didn't say for a reason, although in you it caused some strange laughter, because I didn't hear any alternative proposal from you. Because I've never heard an alternative proposal for what the government is about to do. The easiest thing is to criticize, it's always nice and maybe it carries some positive with it, but when you don't give an alternative, it means that you're not prepared and you don't have an alternative. Once we are going to do this thing, I am sure that after a few months will be introduced and the system will be able to account for heavy goods vehicles in a fair way so that Bulgaria does not lose. We're really losing right now. And the longer we delay, the more we lose because 70% of the revenue from the Road Infrastructure Agency is currently coming from passenger cars by January 1st. This is an absolutely wrong practice and very far back in the years we had to move on to this thing. And instead of looking for some common consensus here, I hope the debate will be really constructive in what we have done wrong as policies and what we can clean up from here on, and not just throw some accusations at each other with the absolutely clear aim of blaming the work of the institutions. Because what we're doing right now is blaming the work of the institutions. Instead of supporting them, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, I apologise, but for the third or fourth time we have had the same debate here, and I think that now both the media and the MPs and their citizens are actually tired of the same thing. Although, yes, it is good to have a public record, we have therefore offered to have such a public council to the Minister, which includes branch organizations, the relevant institutions that are relevant for the introduction of this electronic system to have more publicity, more awareness. Yeah, we're reading maybe as some kind of omission that there should be more awareness of the citizens, but just like that thrown into space accusations I don't think it's useful. On the contrary, here should be the topic around which we should unite absolutely everyone, without exceptions. Because at the moment the main minus comes from international traffic, from which the state rather than collecting that money and being able to make its own road infrastructure, we lose every year and rely on passenger cars, which are the smallest culprits for destroying the roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, I will remind you of the time distribution in relation to the application of art. 5, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB Please do not deviate from the subject. I will apply the provisions of art. 57 of the Rules of Procedure. Please take part in the time determined for speeches. I will warn you of the time running out for 5 seconds so that you can complete your speech and thought, but I will not allow time to exceed. Thank you. You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Nenkov is right that the third or fourth time we engage the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Bulgarian society with the problems of the Tol system. Mr. Nenkov, we would not have bothered the Bulgarian National Assembly, neither the public nor the media, if the Minister had answered four or five questions here last week. They were clearly set and clearly formulated. There is no response either in the written ones, or here, from this tribune. Then I asked the questions, and they were simple: is the contractor being blackmailed to hire a sub-contractor?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u19	Ask! Ask!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u20	Yes or no? Because the API was blackmailing them, they weren't blackmailing them from the media. Were there any reduced activities in the order? Was there or wasn't there? Was there a 200-meter optical cable that wasn't needed after that? Has anyone answered that question? Was there an order from the API one week before 31 December 2018 to stop the installation of the apparatus that made this chaos, which you also appreciated at the beginning of the year? There's still no answer! For this reason, Mr. Nenkov, we want a commission not to investigate not to investigate! Read and see all the circumstances of the announcement of the order. Because you yourself said this order was stopped five times. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]] Five times! So there was a problem with the announcement, on the conduct of the procedure and then on the implementation and on the launch. And this is in the interest of all Bulgarian citizens, including you. You're accusing the BSP of having no proposal. On the contrary, in all of these views of the laws that you have proposed, and not you, where their work is, they cannot answer now because they do not know what this is about. Because you proposed the laws. Isn't that right? And they were standing there watching, and now you're making them do something they don't know how to do, and they can't answer. That is why we want this committee to see what problems it has. There may be problems in the legislation. Yes, we've offered you government. Then there wouldn't be this firm with 7% commission. Why don't you tell him? Until now, with the paper wines, the funny ones, of which you are very worried and ashamed as a Bulgarian, with the same wines were 4.5% in the most expensive commission paid to the distributors. And now with an electronic system, 200 million. BGN, everything modern, European, to be proud all................................................ all..................................................... And this is the beginning! There'll be more. Previously on the streets, on the roads, only by the Road Police, one or two policemen. At the moment there are eight people standing like some kind of posse for I don't know what two of the Toll Police, two of the D.I.A., two of the Ministry of Interior, because they don't know what to do! Because they don't know how to check! And all this chaos we talk about here, from this tribune, and Bulgarian citizens suffer it on the street. They suffer it when they travel. You don't care about that either! That's normal for you, too. And you're offering public council! Minister Avramova could have made a public council, 20 times so far he could have called these people and said: "From this date the price of the wine will be 20 cents per kilometer, 30 cents per kilometer, the scope will be this and this. Today is February 15, 2019 and no one in this country knows what the cost of a mileage is. Does anyone know from you? These people have a business. You once ruined their business by not giving them subsidies for hard-to-reach areas, you will now load them a second time without knowing how much. And you want things in the country to go!? So we propose two things: the committee of inquiry to see these things, to see whether or not there are problems. [[Replication of MP Stanislav Ivanov]] , and then every month in your committee, and not in ours, because you are the portfolio committee, the minister Avramova or there the specialists who are qualified in this topic, come and tell you: "Lord of Parliament, this month we did first, second, third, and are due to be done next month......................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Minister is sitting here, reading, writing, the meeting is over, the debate is over, she gets up and goes, and she doesn't answer. Thus, we accepted the Law with the same silence. If you remember, several times I asked her to come out and say support or do not support the texts. The Council of Ministers and the Ministry are gone! They don't care about that. They are only interested in the procurement of the 200 million, what can be agreed to, and from there whether it will happen, whether it will happen, it has absolutely no meaning. The important thing is that the money should be consumed and directed in the right people with the right ones from 7% and up, and if we can remove any activity so that the performer does not overload, some less cable to put, less frames. I asked: are the frames on which the cameras of this tol system are to be installed legal? Are they legal or not? I'm asking, tell me! [[GERB's line.]] Are they legal? There's no answer! You don't know! I don't know. So we ask: are they legal or not? If they're legal, what law? Because there's no way you're gonna put something illegal on legal and make it all legal! There's no way. So someone has to do their job in this country. That is why our proposal is about these two things, and I really think that the proposal is reasonable and should be supported. And the public council, the minister can make himself call at any time, and it's good to have him. For this there is no need for a decision of the National Assembly. Any minister who wants to maintain communication with the industry, with the institutions concerned, can do so. What do we have to do with it? And that we do not interfere in the work of other institutions, Mr. Nenkov, it is our job to exercise control over the implementation and decision and the laws of the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I have been reading here for nearly 10 minutes about problems in the system that have happened only in the last month. I was explaining that the system was supposed to have been tested for more than four months. All these omissions, the lack of a call center, the unsupplied self-service machines, the problems related to distribution, what you talked about, with the unnecessary firm intermediary that collects a giant commission cost the state, Mr. Nenkov, a certain amount of money. Who is responsible for these missed benefits of the state? Should I remind you that you suspended the Law and the Act and cancelled sanctions for 15 days? [[(Comments from GERB: Why are you looking this way?]] No, I'm addressing Mr. Svilensky because he neglected to tell you that thing. I am looking at you because it is your responsibility, because in the Law, when we proposed this thing to answer a state enterprise, you said: Not any further, and now it's supposed to happen. Now, Mr. Svilensky, because the state has paid 20 million. lv. for consultations by the World Bank. Inside it is clearly prescribed when it comes to selling electronic tarts, that this is entirely the responsibility of the Road Infrastructure Agency, so these gaps, what we are talking about, cost the state money. Who is responsible for the missed benefits?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Second line? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I just don't know if I should answer to Danchev or if I should answer Svilenski because it happened a little bit to me. Colleagues, as you are accustomed to, and in Mr. Svilensky's statement, you spoke to each other in angro. First of all, it's not 200 million, it's 150 million without VAT, right? There's a small difference, and now some 20, 30, 50 million, that seems to be some ridiculous amount to you. Secondly, it's not 7.5%, it's 7%. Thirdly, Mr. Danchev, because I believe that you are an intelligent and young person, I assume that you have met enough in depth what practices are in other countries. Tell me where, provided that after August 16th there will be European providers of electronic service - not only Bulgarian, so we have written them in the Law and I hope you have read it thoroughly. Everywhere this is a practice, all over the world, and apart from that, the Agency itself is currently selling electronic wineries without intermediaries. If I want to buy a vintage over the phone, doesn't go through a middleman, doesn't go through a middleman to the warehouse. Mr. Danchev, the World Bank is consultants, not lawmakers, but ultimately we are the body that decides how it should be. As to the question: why hasn't such a state company or any other form of separation been made yet? Because, Mr. Danchev and Mr. Svilenski, the capacity of the Road Infrastructure Agency was used, what is currently present. I'm sure and you can check it in the transcript, and we've said this before: this will undoubtedly come, whether in a year or more, but surely this will happen sooner or later. Don't turn things around now and everything we're going to do, consider it something wicked. And to this committee I am absolutely opposed because you have written that it will investigate all the circumstances surrounding the performance of the public procurement, but this is not the work of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! From the point of view of the importer, and then the words of Mr. Svilensky, I had the feeling that we had mixed up an apocalyptic picture and lived in some other reality. I also use wine, move along the Bulgarian roads, my friends, family, colleagues, parents and so on also use paid services on the road network, and from no person I have heard a complaint or any difficulty. I converted one wine by electronic means, bought another payment from the post office in one minute. There's a wine shop on the road. There is a sale of tarts in the Road Infrastructure Agency. The Ministry of Regional Development and the Road Infrastructure Agency have sufficient potential to respond to all the difficulties that occurred during the initial implementation of the system. Bear in mind that any change or any reform, as the colleague, who is associated with electronics, has given some difficulty at the beginning. All this was over. We have statistics and they show clearly and clearly that more wine prices have been sold than last year.................................................... through post office, gas stations and terminals and so on. What you said about 7%, if you buy a bill through the site and if you go to the Road Office, that 7% is gone, that commission is gone. So the picture you outlined is not realistic, the reality is quite different. All difficulties will be overcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Usually a line is a disagreement with what I've said. I'm glad none of you challenged the things I said and the questions I asked. I didn't say what I told you wasn't true. Yeah, but I don't know where you saw that there were no problems in January, but people couldn't buy a vintage. [[GERB lines.]] You say you can buy a bill from the apps, where however the commission is 7%, and where it was supposed to be free, without commission, there was a warrant from API Don't you understand that? [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Eee! "]] When I say 7.5%, or I say 200 million, Mr. Nenkov, yes, I speak angro, and I purposely speak angro to provoke you. That's right. I purposely speak so that someone can come and say how many these percentages are, because no one has ever said anywhere in the Law we have adopted anywhere in the World Bank Report, which you read, as it does to you. When Sofia Airport is to be given a concession, the World Bank said, and when it is to make the toll system, the World Bank is not ruling. Come on, figure out when and how you use this World Bank when it is convenient to use 7% commission or when there are things written that need to be respected. Where's your government, the state company? Here, we talked together, you said it was a good thing, and in two months, did anyone take action to create this state-owned company? Well, he's right, Mr. Danchev, making a line for me in January. What is this test period, when did the system start? Nobody's saying why you're announcing this test period or when the system will start. Now I'm hearing " 2020." From August 19th, will it be a test period again? Officially so they say that from 2020 it will be in real mode and now it is in test mode. [[Heckling]] What do you mean, test mode? Colleagues, when I ask the questions, don't be irritated, these are the facts. It's not your fault here in this courtroom! They were guilty where they were sitting quietly in the Council of Ministers, where the Prime Minister looked down on the whole situation and thought that the Tol system would happen on its own. It can't be done by itself! I have told you a hundred times from this tribune that we support you for this initiative, and I will tell you a hundred times that we will not support you when you want to steal from this system, and you do it all the time. [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u29	Thank you. The way you're holding Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u30	Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. Please, there's no way I'm going to stand by when a MP accuses us of stealing from one of these systems. [[(Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria: You are stealing from the system!]] That's what Svilensky just said. I'm sorry, but I hope my colleague Svilensky comes out and apologizes because we don't see each other as thieves. If that's how you see yourself, that's your problem. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ": "You are thieves!"]] But to go out and tell me that we're thieves I don't know what you're calling in the back, you have no respect at all. I hope, Mr. Chairman, that you ask Mr. Svilensky, without punishing him, to come out and apologize publicly. He can't afford to speak such a language. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Svilensky, really, if you hadn't beat me to it, I would have made a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u32	I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u33	Wait a minute, Mr. Ermenkov, take your time. Mr. Svilensky, your conclusion was indeed inappropriate. You have the floor. Please be careful in your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u34	Mr. Chairman, I'm very careful about the speech, only let's not measure with the double archin, like with the World Bank Report. Yesterday, did you listen to Mr. Gurnevsky speak from this tribune?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u35	I listened to him and made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u36	And did you punish him?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u37	No, I didn't punish him, and I won't punish you. [[Replys from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u38	Tell us what I said: you're stealing from orders. Is this some kind of secret? Read the American Senate Report, where it is said that we are first in corruption in public procurement. In public procurement! [[(Noise and lines from GERB: There is no such thing! You're lying!]] Who steals them?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u39	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u40	Someone's stealing that money from the air!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u41	Mr. Svilensky, I'm paying attention to your departure from the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u42	Make a commission, and if this committee proves that there are no violations, then I'll apologize to everyone individually! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u43	Mr. Ermenkov, you wanted the word in the manner of conduct, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u44	Dear Mr. President, since yesterday, it is the impression that you are sitting in the back of the chair and acting like a person who somehow makes a difference between what is said on the left, what is said on the right. When on the right is violated the procedure in the manner of conduct and speeches are made, lines, duplicates or whatever you want to call it, but it has nothing to do with you, you sit and remain silent, and somewhere in a minute and 45 seconds you start hinting slightly that it is nice for your colleagues to return to the procedure they have taken. When one of us gets up and tries to explain to you where you went wrong and what you've done wrong, you either don't take the attitude sitting in the posture of half-godship upstairs, or you start interrupting the person who's speaking in the 20th second. Do not approach the MPs with different arsins! You are placed above, not to admire the people of your image, but to take attitude, to observe order, to follow procedures and to be an impartial arbitrator, not politically bound! Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. I think it is unfounded what you have said, and I will not answer. We are continuing with the debate, honourable Members. You have the floor, Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Apparently, only public procurement, theft and embezzlement are in their heads. For every single question you put a moment ago, there is public information and it is enough to open the necessary sites to get it. Since this is obviously a very difficult activity for you, I will now give you the answer to these questions that you have asked. First of all, was the company being blackmailed for using subcontractors? I guess that's some kind of essay that you're pretty good at. If you have such information, you have a state investigative journalist on the topic of "Magistrali" and he will investigate, he will give all the information he needs, he will turn to whom he needs to, use it fully. I won't say names so there won't be a chance for a personal explanation. Are the frameworks legal? Of course, colleagues, they're legal. I don't know what's going on with you about illegal construction, but we don't have it, the information is public. If you want details, please come in. In the Code of Conduct of the territory, art. 147, para. 1, t. 2 - Building permit No 33 of 15 May 2015 Another 100 pieces, again issued by MRDPD. Building permits by the respective chief architects of the municipalities for another 120 pieces, legal, completely legitimate. I believe this is where I answered for building permits. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No!"]] But they're public, you can find them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u47	It's hard for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u48	Yeah, I guess it's hard. Regarding the question of whether anyone has issued an order to stop activities. No such order has been issued. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" On the Internet read. "]] Let's see where the warrant is, show it, take a look. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] None of the contact persons of the Road Infrastructure Agency have sent such an order. [[Replys from "BSP" for Bulgaria "There is a request. "]] There has been a request from the Bulgarian Oil Association for temporary suspension of the activities of the petrol stations on their sites, but such a request has been refused. This is the information that you don't fully read. [[Replicates from the BSP for Bulgaria "This is information, a colleague you are not looking at. "]] In terms of the seven percent that bother you so much. Colleagues, these 7% include all the necessary costs for initial investment, installation, setting, delivery, all that is needed for the system to work. They're not commission, they're not profit, they're part of the cost. So, colleagues, please don't abuse. If you have a habit of working without a construction permit, working with corrupted public procurement, we do not have this issue. It's all public, open the website and look at it. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! Dear colleague Shishkov, you have issued 120 building permits issued by the municipalities. Now to explain the arrangement and the need to put these frameworks into service. That they're legally authorized, yes, maybe it's a fact, maybe. We don't know, we have some information that you give and say it's public. The introduction into service ensures for these frameworks that they can absorb the technological loads of the possibly future system. That's where a few more questions come from. First of all, are these frames going to be used by the toll system? How many will be used. Do they have the necessary capacity? Do they guarantee safe use and passage? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is not written on the Internet. "]] Who and how will guarantee us this thing, or do we have frames made five years ago for which warranty deadlines have expired? The other thing I'm paying attention to. The motorways in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria according to our current legislation are first category. First category are all the facilities on these motorways, i.e. the frames bear the category of the objects. And if in any way the law is circumvented by permissions to be placed or in any other form, this does not justify the need for these same frameworks to be implemented under Bulgarian law. This is about the frames. About the questions. So far, we don't know the range of the toll system. There is no legal basis in force. Fact, it's a fact! We're talking about the World Bank Report, 20 million, fact. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u51	Finish your thought, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u52	The questions about the toll system are more than you can answer. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Shishkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Colleague Bonev, with you it is always a pleasure to argue on the subject of legislation. Do they have the necessary capacity? Colleague, in art. 147, para. 1, t. 2 of the LU is clearly stated what is the order for issuing the building permits for these frames and for all objects falling within this category. What is a mandatory and necessary condition is that an opinion be issued by an engineer constructor, such as you and I, which is an opinion to prove the wearability of the facility concerned. This engineer constructor assumes full responsibility whether this frame has sufficient capacity or not, whether it measures all the necessary loads. [[Replies from BSP for Bulgaria "Was it written on the Internet? "]] With regard to the categorization of the objects, you are absolutely wrong. This interpretation, which part of colleagues do, is absolutely false. The category of the road does not carry the category of the facility. Open the ordinance and you'll take a look at it. There is a record of the way construction permits are issued for individual subjects. There is even an opinion of the DNCC on this issue, but let's not go into details. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria "How many frames are needed?"]] At the moment, 320 frames are needed. Regarding whether we follow the World Bank's recommendations, we absolutely follow them. We take into account any recommendation they provide, so do not worry either about the legality or the wearability or the category of the object. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria ":" Only for money "no. "]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Ibryamov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! The height of parliamentaryism requires us to say precisely and clearly what is happening to the notorious toll system. I would remind my colleagues from GERB that last year we had serious debates on the introduction and putting into action of tol management through the tol system. There was not a single statement from any parliamentary group that did not support the system. On the contrary, there have been debates, as far as I can call them debates, about whether the introduction since 2019, because then, Mr. Nenkov, you did not say that 2019 will be a transitional year. If it is transitional, why should Bulgarian citizens, carriers and others pay for their transitional year? This is another topic that needs to be debated. The fact is that with the introduction of the electronic reporting system whether someone bought a tart, didn't function well, went off with a foul start. There were scandals that were widely broadcast on national media. Madam Minister, you were among us last year as a representative of the National Assembly and witnessed all these debates. Is there a problem right now? Of course there is. Unfortunately, because representative democracy in the face of the government cannot clear this problem, comes to us and we, as legislators, have to solve this case. To solve this case, there are two submitted projects for a solution. One option proposes the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry to make a comprehensive analysis of what happened. I will not go into details, because in public and public opinion it is already clear that it is about corruption, it is about money that goes to waste or is not spent as appropriate. I'm not saying whether it's right or wrong, it's just hanging out. Of course, every month there should be a report by the Ministry on how the management of the toll system is going. We all know that the Tol system will be in place from August. In this transition period, we have electronic wineries. But tell me about the big carriers, I'm talking about the Bulgarian carriers, isn't there a gap in the legislation and in the regulations to it that they are obliged to buy every month of wine? It gets expensive, it hits their pocket. That's the moment we haven't cleared either. You, of course, propose the establishment of a public council to the Minister, and that this public council or minister report to each two-month period. Dear colleagues, such as the National Assembly, as Parliament, we need to find that approach from which Bulgarian citizens will understand that if we have made mistakes, because they will not only point to one, if we have made mistakes, to pour sand on our heads and say: "Yes, there is a problem, we will clear it within a few months. The Minister should come every month, or someone from this public council, or the committee, if it is created, and report what has happened... Neither should there be talk about corruption, nor should anyone talk about who did what, how they did it and so on, because this creates serious noise in Bulgarian society, which is not useful for parliamentaryism. The other important thing to note is to sing the codes. When you buy the codes by bank transfer and it's not about a car, it's about several vehicles and you point them out, there's a problem, and there's a serious problem. The system only relies on one code and one payment, although you paid for a few code with several payments. And at some point, Bulgarian citizens and carriers are under the impression that their money has gone to waste and they are forced to buy a new system, waiting for the money to be returned from API because they are entered into the API account. If it's not true, the Minister will correct me. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] That is why we must very carefully approach these important for Bulgaria and the governance we are talking about e-government, which we have been trying for years to introduce, this tol system to work in adequate, foreseeable future periods so as to facilitate the work of the Bulgarian citizens, the carriers, because we are legislators and we have to make it easier, as yesterday we argued whether the electoral code is difficult or not, so the system and electronic wineries should facilitate the way of buying. All this should lead to improvement of infrastructure, to facilitate all other accompanying infrastructures needed in general in Bulgaria. That's short for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! For the second month, the failure of the introduction of electronic wineries and toll system continues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u59	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u60	Yes, gentlemen, you will hear of the great failure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u61	Where does that say?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u62	Now I'm going to tell you from here, from this tribune, because I've learned that until now no one has told you about the problems that are in place. The victims are, of course, all Bulgarian citizens and the whole transport business. All remains a feeling that once again the state spends hundreds of millions of levs...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u63	How much?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u64	That's enough. 150 million. lv. You know, read, you're in the commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u65	Because Svilensky said it was 200 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u66	Yes, if you consider the total costs that you will say may be 200. API is in constant scandals from repair of highways, roads to chaos with the toll system and wineries. The fuse box you gave me with a change of API people doesn't solve the problems. There are still a number of questions to be answered. One of the important questions remains: why is a company chosen to be a competitor of the state, a company that will take 7% of all revenue from the Road Agency? Couldn't this be a government firm? Everyone says the small business in our country isn't going well. No, I say the opposite: go this business, which is the state feeder, honourable colleagues, this business, to which you give him millions of levs every day just to pass money through it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u67	It's the firm's.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u68	The seven percent you give the firm.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u69	At the Technoimpex.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u70	And we can talk about Technoimpex, but later. [[Noise and lines.]] The negotiators before you, before me, said that there were no problems, the system worked well, everyone bought wine, converted them. And I will say the opposite: no, honourable Members, there are problems, and there are many. I'll start with that when we're stopped on the road. We are being stopped by six to eight people who are paid by taxpayers in our country. What, though, happens when the road stops? There's a guy who's picking up the data on the bill. And I, honourable Members, would like to ask you a question: what happens if my wine is up to February 21st, and my colleague, who will take my card data, enters the computer and introduces that it is up to November 21st? I'm supposed to take this sticker off the glass, rip it off, because my wine is already convertible.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u71	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u72	How is that not true? Well, get up, replicate me and explain it to me. [[GERB lines.]] No, explain it to me after I'm done. I ask you the next thing: what happens when you pay the bill by bank transfer? Five days shall be allowed for this wine to enter into force, but these five days, honourable Members, shall be taken from the days of payment. I give you the direct example from February 21st to March 20th. From February 21st to February 24th, you have no right to move the vehicle, because this wine... [[GERB lines.]] I can show it to you, dear colleague. Yeah, I'll show it to you right away with papers. [[Shows document.]] Oh, on top of that, paying instead of the monthly bill of £ 134. Do you know what document came that paid 134 thousand. And I'll give this to you as a document for you to see. [[GERB lines.]] No, I didn't translate them. I didn't translate them. They're being translated by the carriers, and these are problems for which they contact me daily and give signals. Just a few words about bus and coach transport. My fellow Members, I would like to ask why they are not here, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance? Because transport is in chaos. You're going to bankrupt the long-distance and cross-country transport. You'll leave the villages... [[GERB lines.]] It's a meeting with the industry. The Branch clearly wants to keep the wineries and have a clear grace period until when to enter the toll system on the move. [[GERB lines.]] Make a meeting with the people, talk to them. So it's best for us. There must be a committee of inquiry so that all these things we say can be cleared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. A line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u74	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Mladenov, in your speech you were another speaker who mentioned the seven per cent commission received by the distributor, but did not mention a much more important fact. Is it true that this private company received from the Road Infrastructure Agency exclusive rights to distribute these wineries? Do you think that this is good and protects the public interest because in the end this money can be collected from the state in the face of the Road Infrastructure Agency? Because if the accounts are correct... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u75	Please finish your speech, dear Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u76	One second to finish my thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u77	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u78	If the accounts of the Road Infrastructure Agency are correct, that the system will generate revenue of 1 billion annually, the revenues of this private company will be within 70 million. Can't the 70 million government build roads instead of giving them to private companies?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u79	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Any other lines? I can't see. Dear Mr. Mladenov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u80	Thanks for the line. That's what I wanted to finish with before. Dear colleagues, that is why we want to have a committee of inquiry, because in our fellow citizens there remains a bitter truth that once again hundreds of millions of levs are spent without clarity And that's why we want there to be a committee of inquiry and clean up all this stuff. The Bulgarian Socialist Party has always been consistent and we have always held for state policy. This firm could have been state-owned and the money would have gone into the state, not into private hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. We continue with the speeches. It doesn't matter which one you decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Debates are interesting today. For me mostly, they are interesting because in their presentation to the BSP Decision Project, my colleague Danchev asked several questions, in his essence, in my opinion, 90% of them technically. What made the debates interesting is how opposition colleagues managed to develop and build political typhoons to turn their entire thesis from several purely technical problems. But let's get back to the questions that my colleague asked. Much of the problems were related to some of the functions of the information system, which is behind the really implemented tol system. It's a big, heavy and complex system. In essence, it may be the largest system in the country from the point of view of project users, of control functions, I am referring to the scale of control functions that will be carried out with this system. As for the problems that arose at the end of last year and the beginning of this year after implementation, it is normal for a severe and serious system to manifest any defects. No one said it would work smoothly, no one expected it to be okay. Moreover, in the spring of last year, when it was announced that the implementation and construction of this system, the then minister, I think that Mr. Nankov, did this as a statement and announced that in 2019 we will use the time to identify defects, problems, not good functionality and remove them. This happens and happens for two or three weeks there were problems and late payments. Perhaps no payments could be made, but to date the system is working. The system itself has processed over one million and three hundred thousand transactions related to the sale of electronic wineries, which is a serious and huge amount. These transactions are executed by, let's call it the almost-risk functionality which the Road Infrastructure Agency has managed to build in this road taxi management unit. Because the reality is that only from the activity they implemented, I say this almost banking institution, because the way they implement it, the way they make card payments and transactions saves over 17 million for the next three years. So the system itself is already starting to work. Duplicate payments were no more than 150 pieces. Compared to a million and three hundred, it makes less than 0.01% of total transactions. Regarding the complexity of the system, we have relationships with the Ministry of Interior, Customs Agency, the National Revenue Agency, the Executive Agency. Regarding how the job is done and whether the software regulatory base is made or vice versa. Of course you don't do that. And to date, further development and further development of functionalities that must comply with the Law, I say again, precisely in terms of interconnections and interface with all other institutions and agencies. How have systems been implemented in the rest of the world, particularly in Europe? Usually, between 18 and 36 months, it takes the construction and implementation of such an information system to serve the needs of the system in certain countries. Bulgaria succeeded in 11 months. In 11 months it started, built it, implemented it, built the administrative capacity, created the expertise that could serve this system, be able to work with this system and therefore the system to work without problems. Yes, I say again, at the beginning of the year there were 2.3 weeks in which there were problems with some functionalities, but this is expected. Almost a year ago it was announced that 2019, I repeat, will be not a transitional year, but a year in which we will find out where the problems are and solve them. That's what we're doing. Eleven months. Just for comparison, Germany delayed the deployment of such a system by 16 months. The delay itself was 16 months. Countries such as Belgium, Slovakia, Hungary had three or four months to delay the deployment of some of the main functionalities. That'll be the end of it, guys. Again, we do not need to make an inquiry committee dealing with the technical problems.. They are clear, answers to these problems are given. An inquiry committee for technical matters will be something really new for this National Assembly. Let's bring the debate back to the expert surface. Let's focus on the important things and let the Ministry do its job. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? [[National Representative Dimitar Danchev wants the floor.]] I don't think you have time. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] They're seconds. I don't even... No, don't call me to take unsubstantiated steps. Are there any lines from parliamentary groups that have time in reserve? I won't. [[Relations between the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Alexander Nenkov.]] Please, Mr. Danchev, don't go in those... Mr. Nenkov, please. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Mr. Hristov's statement I was mentioned by name and I was attacked for having turned technical problems into political problems. I think I have the right to defend myself and explain, in the context of the personal explanation procedure, what I had in mind in this situation. Because technical defects are what, you, Mr. Hristov, as governors, have turned into political effects. They were expected problems in the system, you said. Yeah, they were expected, and were penalties foreseen in the system after a system test was already carried out? The system was adopted on 17 December 2018. On 17 December it was adopted by the API without comments. Why, since these defects were expected, was not accepted after the real test period? Let me remind you that the Prime Minister has turned these technical defects, your Prime Minister Mr. Boyko Borisov, into political actions because he fired the management of API and apologized to the Bulgarian citizens. If there were no problems, if the problems were purely technical, why did you take these political actions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. I'm sorry, I didn't realize you wanted the floor for a personal explanation. I thought you wanted the floor for a line. The personal explanation is not in the time of the parliamentary group, so it was my fault. Dear Mr. Valkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I want to focus on why shouldn't there be such a parliamentary committee? Because I believe that there are no such serious problems that would require the establishment of such a committee. It is true that there are certain difficulties that are being overcome in the process of introducing this system. On the contrary, we have an electronic system that has been launched with some very rapid deadlines, as my colleague said, for 11 months something that has not been done by other countries in Europe. This is what we should be proud of, not making committees of inquiry about going and going, and without having a problem, trying to reproduce it. We have a contract concluded on January 18, 2018, between the Road Agency and the Kapsh Traffic Solutions. The contract is uploaded to the Road Agency website, and anyone who wants to see it can see it is public. According to this contract, the first phase has been put into operation or these are electronic wineries. It is true that there have been problems in the first ten days, but these problems have been overcome. Therefore, that the system is functioning, that the system is effective, there are separate indicators and indicators that are important for such an electronic system, and they are: accessibility, enforcement and income increases. Accessibility. Did you know that we currently have over 4,000 points from which we can buy such a wine? Isn't that right, Madam Secretary? I'm gonna have to ask you to confirm this thing. [[Mister Petya Avramova nodded head.]] And a year ago, there were 2,000 points. I think that speaks eloquently of the accessibility of the system. The second thing I mean is law enforcement. At present, the control being carried out is carried out by 105 teams of the National Tol management. It is true that during the first ten days it was co-ordinated with the Car Inspection and with the authorities of the DMV, but this period, which we have said, in 2019, as a period in which there will be difficulties or any non-essential problems, shows us something else. For these less than two weeks, more than 14 500 car checks have been carried out. This speaks of sustainability and security of movement. Finally, I will conclude with some figures on an increase as an absolute value of the purchased electronic wineries and as an absolute value of the funds by more than 10 million, at the present time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u88	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Valkov, I don't understand you started well, that you will explain the difference between the Public Advisory Council and the Commission, but I do not understand the difference, and I hope you will focus on this. Because I'm hearing various amounts here, 150, 200 million, I'm hearing that a review should be made by the temporary committee. The reviews are made elsewhere, Mr. Valkov. They've got a reviewer, let's give it to their reviewer. [[Applause and cheers by "BSP for Bulgaria": "Bravo, bravo!"]] to address these problems. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]] Therefore, I ask you to concentrate and explain the difference between the Public Advisory Council and the Temporary Commission. Thank you. [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, Ivanov. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second line, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Mr. Wolf, I've been listening carefully! For me, the problem is that this system was introduced so quickly. You said, '11 months,' within 11 months, it was introduced, wasn't it?! Didn't it take another six-month period to get those blunders that we've witnessed? [[Reply of the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Yeah, it's always confirmation that we rushed it. Secondly, when you were talking about the three functionalities of this tol system, you started with the access points of 4,000 access points, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u91	Five!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u92	Five? Okay, five. If we go to the first ten nearest us, how many of them will work or work, you know? And very importantly, you mentioned an increase in incomes, which incomes are being increased through the toll system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u94	You said "Guests"!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u95	Funds, funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u96	Third line, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My line is this: I do not agree with the number 4 - 5 thousand access points. On the contrary, every mobile device is already accessed and online payment does not charge a fee. Thank you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u99	Mr. Ivanov, I agree with what you said, that the points are not so much more than 4,000. We don't know how many million phones there are in Bulgaria, but you're right about this thing. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Regarding the line made by Mr. Ibryamov, I made a stylistic mistake. It wasn't about raising the income, it was about the revenue from the system. That's what I meant. [[Relations of National Representative Georgi Svilenski.]] Regarding what you said, Mr. Ivanov, I meant that the problems offered to us here in the Chamber are not problems, but technical difficulties. Problems are when a highway is left somewhere in the middle of nowhere and the National Assembly has to make a decision...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u100	Who? Which highway is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u101	...for 62 million in 2010 in order to complete the highway There, that's a problem! But they didn't have such committees. There were no such committees! I therefore say that the National Assembly should not deal with technical problems. The money for them was not given for construction, they were given for missed benefits by the builders. And who's to blame for this? We're not talking right now.!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u102	Mr. Valkov, please get on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u103	I'm sorry. And in terms of why we have to be precise with the figures because the BSP was talking about 200 million and the contract is worth 150 million? Because the firm that's second, maybe it's 43 million. Five hundred thousand less! [[(Radio, applause and cue from GERB: "A ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. You have the floor, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have already said that we will not accept the proposal for a committee of inquiry simply because we do not think there is a need for one. There's no scandal, there's no big ambiguities, and that's even visible from this debate. We have adopted committees of inquiry that have been proposed by the opposition so far and have shown that we have no problem with that. In this case, there's just no need. It's on a technical level. On a political level. After all the parliamentary groups said they were for this tol system, this is one of the most serious reforms that this government is carrying out, it puts a whole sector on a new plane, and we expected help from you, we didn't expect you to turn real technical problems into political problems. These problems aren't so dramatic. More wine was sold than last year, which means the system works. Yeah, 200 people had a problem of 200 grand, though. If we figure out how many people had a problem with losing their receipt last year or tearing up their wine, you'll see there must be that many of them again. When it comes to such strategic issues, because this system will work for both the next government and the next one, it will continue to work decades ahead and will enable the state to build roads and finance them in a completely different way, because this system already makes the construction of roads such as to pay for those who use them and not pay for them all, as has been so far. Finally, I don't see what you're suggesting other than the committee of inquiry? What can you do? I hear: let's have a debate. Why are we doing this so fast? 2040? Should we do this thing? That's how the problem comes into play and from then on the technical issues are solved. That's what we're doing, and that's why we won't support you. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u107	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! Today's debate is a little late perhaps because this problem was real a month and a half ago. I will begin by saying that the system we are talking about may be the only one who is carrying out such a serious reform. In Bulgaria it is customary to talk about a lack of reforms, here the road system has done something that it has been trying to do for at least five years. This is happening now, in our mandate, with the decision of the ruling majority, with the support of words from part of the opposition and, after all, the non-voting of key texts of the Law that made it possible to implement the toll system. Either way, this system is starting to work. It started with electronic wine, created some problems. These problems were solved within 15 days, if memory serves. In the Commission, which I have the honour of chairing, by the way, the last blitzcontrol was asked, but was put by a representative of the majority and not the opposition, there was a very comprehensive answer on the topic..... what were the technical problems, how were they removed? There was also a request from us that we would want more hearing regarding the entry of the toll system, we would want more careful analysis and more tests before the system was launched, so there wouldn't be any such problems again. The fact is that the road system is completely underfunded and that's three decades ago. Three decades back she gets 30. 40% of what she should actually get, and with the current changes we guarantee her self-financing. In this regard, perhaps this debate was about plenary, and this was about special committees, about their work, but this debate passed last summer. Now we are asked questions in journalistic style: but is there a deal, is anyone stealing, is there problems in public procurement, is the company being blackmailed? Since the epistola genre is strong for the opposition, I suggest they write down all these assumptions either in some fantastic plot or in a signal to the prosecution and delegate to whoever is responsible for such checks, this responsibility. I believe that in the Committee on Regional Policy and Public Works, we have the necessary capacity and we can really make the possible debate with which to monitor progress in introducing this system, and if we can help solve these problems, we will. The Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will support the GERB project and will not support the BSP colleagues' project.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, above all I would like to thank the parliamentary group of BSP, Georgi Svilenski, Petar Danchev for challenging and initiating this debate and he became part of the information campaign that Bulgarian citizens need, and we have had the opportunity to discuss today the problems with the introduction of the electronic charging system on the Republican road network. In the last parliamentary control, where I was asked about the common wine policy, and to which I correctly answered the common wine policy, questions were also asked, which I have the opportunity to answer today. I will start by the order in which Mr. Svilensky asked them: is the company being blackmailed to be used subcontractors by the losers? This question, Mr. Svilenski, should be asked to the company Kapps, who won the tender, not the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I didn't see a representative of the company Kapsh.Kapsh, who publicly said that, nor did he deposit in the Ministry or the Road Infrastructure Agency, data about such a situation. If you have specific information, you can refer to the control bodies. The other is just media talk. On the second question, are there any dropouts, and what are they? First of all, I'd like to say a few words about the contract. On 15 January 2018, the Agreement on the design, construction and introduction of the electronic system for charging tolls for the use of the Republican Road Network was signed by the Chairman of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency (Railway Infrastructure), Mr. Doncho Atanasov and Michael Weber, representative of the International Consortium Kapsh Traffic Solutions. For two years the procedure was announced, blocked by complaints to the KPC and SAC. The documents, its explanations, the attempts of the contracting authority to extend the time limits were appealed. On 16 August 2017, the offers of the six candidates were opened. There have been complaints against the chosen performer, Kapsh Traffic Solutions. In view of the need to accelerate the implementation process of the Road Infrastructure Agency system, the KPC has requested authorisation for prior implementation by the KPC. There has been a new complaint to the State, but the court's decision has put an end to the dramas with this procedure and the contract has been signed. The agreement on the design, construction and introduction of the electronic charging system for the use of the Republican road network on a toll basis for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes and on a time basis for passenger cars is worth 149 million. 997 thousand. lv. without VAT. I would like to stress that from the candidates admitted to opening price offers, the proposal of the selected contractor Cappsch is 43 million 503 thousand lower. The annex to the contract. During the implementation of the contract, the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Kapsh-Kapsh-Kaksh have found the need for adjustments to lead to better functionality of the system. The amendments were imposed because of circumstances which could not be foreseen by the parties when the contract was signed. It is important to clarify that the annex does not lead to a change in the subject-matter and total value of the contract. Some of the activities have dropped out, others have been improved, and others are all new. For example, according to the initial procurement documents, law enforcement should have been carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Consequently, after exchange of correspondence between the competent authorities and in accordance with established international practice, it is decided that enforcement should be carried out by national authorities. The need to build optical connections has been removed due to the existence of such communication at border crossing points. In addition, there is an opportunity to pay electronic wine by bank transfer, which requires the entry into force of the European Directive on the interoperability of electronic charging systems and to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on non-payment of tolls in the Community. The Annex is signed in accordance with the laws in force, for which a positive opinion has also been received by the Public Procurement Agency. All changes have been agreed after a well-founded expert opinion and position of the partner institutions. The entire contract between the Road Infrastructure Agency and Kapsh and the subsequent annex are published on the website of the Road Agency and are fully accessible. Next question: is there an order to stop the assembly of the terminals you talked about at the border crossing points? That's not my answer! None of the contact persons of the Railway Infrastructure Agency with the contractor Kapsh is sending a letter to the company to stop the installation of terminals at border checkpoints. At the request of the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association on Christmas and New Year's Holidays not to be installed on their sites, i.e. at the petrol stations and not at the border checkpoints, as suggested, the management of Kapsh "Kapsh" has requested confirmation of an employee of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which in email confirms an agreement with the Bulgarian Oil and Gas Association. Where did you see border crossings here?! Where you saw correspondence between Customs and API, I didn't understand. There are two nuances here: first, Mr. Ninov, whose email you quote, is not an official contact person and correspondence between the Road Infrastructure Service and the Kappsh, as well as in the exchanged emails. Unfortunately for you, this is not about border crossings at all. For the gas stations. The installation has never been stopped and there has never been such a letter at Christmas and New Year's holidays for border crossing points. You know, the problem that was created on January 2nd was the lack of terminals at the crossings. The third question, Mr. Svilenski, which concerned: why the Directorate of the Road Infrastructure Agency and not a state enterprise? As a newly emerging structure, the National Toll Management had a initial need to use the administrative capacity of the Road Infrastructure Agency and subsequently to make administrative reform, such as the initial idea... to be a state enterprise. My observation and what is currently being worked on by colleagues from the API Directorate, as well as by the other departments in the Road Infrastructure Agency, shows that this was an extremely sensible and correct solution. Until staff are appointed, while this staff builds competences, skills and acquires experience, gets into details of the work of the Directorate, the capacity of the other Directorates in the Road Infrastructure Agency shall be used. The initial start of the system should not be a concern for you. I take it as a good decision that it is a directorate of the Road Infrastructure Agency. And in conclusion. Dear Members of Parliament, as noted by you, electronic charging is the largest and most significant reform in the portfolio of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in recent years. It is not just to put cameras on the road, but it completely replaces the existing model of paper tarts for time for cars, and for heavy goods vehicles based on distance travelled. With the reform, we will provide real pay for the use of roads, and without burdening citizens' budget. The innovation is that heavy traffic, which more destroys the roads, is already paying for tolls. The good news for everyone is that regardless of whether they are from GERB or from BSP, from any other party or non-party, the collected around 1 billion. lv. annually will be spent only and solely for road rehabilitation and for the construction of new ones. The road sector will become the first to endure itself, and the effect will be felt by the people with the quality of the roads in Bulgaria. We have witnessed a few criticisms about some of the demands, others not so much, but I would like to thank the Bulgarian citizens for the support we have received for the introduction of the tol, for the patience with which we have overcome the initial problems at the start of the electronic bill. We apologized. I will say to the ill-wishers: we are confident of the rightness of this reform, and very soon after just a few years, people will begin to see construction and repairs expected for decades and become possible precisely because of the revenue from the tol. Currently from 20,000 km of Republican road network 8000 are for repair. You understand that the Road Infrastructure Agency does not have the resources for these large-scale repairs. Such a large-scale reform needs not confrontations but common efforts, because no one will benefit from failure of this large-scale project. We're open to criticism as long as it's not self-inflicted, it leads to good decisions. That is why I am grateful to accept the proposed committee, the Public Advisory Council, which the MPs from GERB have made, because I think that in this Advisory Council we will be able to talk about the problems and look for solutions both with partner institutions and with all branch organizations. Dear Members of Parliament, the introduction of the electronic system is not a one-off act, it is a process that will continue all 2019, as there are still paper wines that are valid and in the middle of the year will also be introduced to heavy goods vehicles with an initial test period. What have we achieved so far from the start? Since the start of sales of electronic wineries on 17 December 2018, 1 million have been sold. 368 thousand. 433 electronic wineries totaling 104 million. 293 thousand. £616. Currently, the facts are that we have already installed 428 terminals for self-loading and are about to be installed two more at the Strasimirovtsi Border Crossing Point, and until now there are 19 devices at the border crossings. Vinettes are sold, except in the endless possibilities of the Internet space through the websites bgtoll.bg, vinetki.bg and the website of A1, at a desk in all 28 district road governments, 3000 cases of I will just tell you that the total points from which Bulgarian citizens can buy wine are 8232. That's in response to everyone else who said there's been a failure for the second month. No, there is no failure, Mr. Mladenov, there is a working system that is a heavy electronic system, and in the process of its introduction there are technical problems that are being removed immediately. So the system works and there is no reason to argue that Bulgarian citizens have nowhere to buy an electronic wine. Thank you for this debate, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that your support in the coming months for all who work in the National Toll Offices and make daily efforts for Bulgaria to have an electronic charging system, as well as to introduce one based on distance. I am ready to meet those of you who have knowledge of such systems and debate. If you have ideas, the system can be upgraded. Let us wish success for this reform in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. My fellow Members, I will read to you and put to the vote the draft decisions in the order of their entry. The first one: Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 954-05-4 of 16 January 2019 by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry for the Implementation of Electronic Wines The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a temporary parliamentary committee to make a full review of the award, conduct and execution of the public procurement for the design, construction and introduction of the electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the Republican road network. The Commission shall be composed of 10 Members of the National Assembly of two from each Parliamentary Group, with a period of two months. 2. Instructs the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to submit to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government a report on the progress and results of the implementation of the electronic system on a monthly basis. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 57 against 84 abstentions 8. The offer is not accepted. I'll introduce you to the second one: Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 954-05-4 of 16 January 2019 by the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry for the Implementation of Electronic Wines The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Minister for Regional Development and Public Works to provide information every two months on the progress in putting the electronic charging system into service on a basis of time and distance to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. 2. By 31 March 2019, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall establish a Public Advisory Council on the introduction of the electronic charging system based on time and distance travelled with the participation of partner institutions and branch organisations. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 97 against 47, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a recess. Start of parliamentary control 11.30 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u111	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing with parliamentary control. Mr. Krasen Kralev will be the first to respond to the Minister of Youth and Sports. He will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov on the elimination of the track of the stadium "Plovdiv." Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u112	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! A few weeks ago, a question was published by Plovdiv, which the mayor of the city of Plovdiv is widely publishing through the media. He said that on the basis of talks with you, with the prime minister and other responsible persons in connection with the country's application as host of the World Cup in ten years' time, one stadium that Plovdiv can offer is the stadium Plovdiv. The problem is that according to the requirements of FIFA football stadiums must be as close as possible to the viewers, i.e. there should be no track athletic. In this context, the mayor of Plovdiv said that an emergency redesign of the stadium will be carried out because there is one design that will remove the track, and in order not to wait, it will be removed immediately. Dear Minister, the athletic track of Plovdiv Stadium is one of the two sports facilities, which is national and I would say overrated meaning, the other is the rowing base. On this track is held the World Championship in Athletics for Youth and has set a record the fastest white woman - Yvette Lalova - 10.77. I think this track, and according to the opinion of now active coaches and racers, has the meaning and far exceeds the place it has in Bulgaria. In this regard, my question to you is: Is the removal of the track of the stadium of Plovdiv seriously considered? My second question is: as compensation the mayor of Plovdiv said he was going to build a small athletic stadium near Plovdiv Stadium and as you know, we already have a small athletic stadium near Plovdiv Stadium this is the famous student stadium in Plovdiv. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is the birthplace of our prima Stefka Kostadinova, do you have in your strategic plans financing a new, albeit small, athletic stadium in Plovdiv? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u113	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov, from November 2018 are held meetings at the level of sports ministers and football federations between Bulgaria, Greece, Romania and Serbia, where we look at the opportunities for common candidates for the 2030 FIFA World Cup and the European Championship in 2028. The next working meeting of the sports ministers and representatives of football federations will be held on 24 and 25 February in Sofia. At this stage, each of the countries at local level is doing research on the need to build a sport infrastructure to meet the criteria. The expectations for Bulgaria are to have four stadiums meeting the criteria of UEFA and FIFA. These criteria are many and are detailed in the documents of football plants. Based on these criteria our preliminary estimate is that in the country can be built or constructed stadiums in Sofia, Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv. According to FIFA requirements, the minimum capacity of a stadium for hosting a World Championship match is 40 thousand seats. Stadiums with this capacity can accept matches from the group phase. 32 finals, 16 finals and quarterfinals. For the matches opening, semifinals and finals, stadiums must have a minimum capacity of 60 thousand and 80 thousand seats respectively. The modern requirements for football stadiums are that they are all football. One of the last examples of this is the Stadium of Luzhnikki, which adopted the final of Mondial 2018 and was declared the best stadium for 2017. You probably know that the World Championship of Athletics was held at this stadium and its track athletics in August 2013. However, because of Mondial's household 2018 the track was removed and the terrain dug down, and capacity was increased to 80,000 places. On 6 February I had a working meeting with the mayor of Plovdiv Ivan Totev precisely in relation to the desire of the municipality to apply for a possible investment by the state in a football stadium in its territory to meet the criteria of UEFA and FIFA. On it it became clear that Plovdiv will offer two stadiums of Plovdiv stadium and stadium of Lokomotiv in the park of Lauta. A working group, which will include representatives of the Bulgarian Football Union and the Ministry of Youth and Sports, must conduct an audit and determine which of the two fields is more suitable for the construction of a new stadium. At the meeting, the mayor of Plovdiv announced that he would propose to the Municipal Council to change its decision to grant 15 million. lv. for the renovation of Plovdiv Stadium and to vote on a decision granting 5 million lv. for the construction of a new athletic stadium with a capacity of 2 thousand viewers and a runway of 8 corridors, on one side "9." The Ministry of Youth and Sports has not been consulted to participate in the financing of this new athletic stadium. And then, and now I would like to stress that building a new athletic stadium is extremely important for the city. Plovdiv is undoubtedly one of the most important centers of athletics in our country and in the last four years. Since 2014, the Ministry of Youth and Sport has financed three projects in the municipality aimed at renovating the athletic sports infrastructure worth 664 thousand. lv. These are the track of the Sports Club of Athletics "Botev" and the hall of the Club of Athletics "Lokomotiv" which was renovated in two stages. The policy of the Ministry of Youth and Sports in recent years is aimed at enhanced renovation of sports athletic infrastructure in the country. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Athletics is one of the sports in which our country has extremely promising young contestants who are worthy of replacing their renowned predecessors. I can mention objects such as: - "Arena" "Burgas," which after graduation will be one of the most modern halls for indoor athletics, meeting all international standards; - the renovation of the Asix Arena, which ended last year; - days ago officially started the repair of the gym in Dobrich, in which we invest nearly 370 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - We have a plan this year to start the renovation of the stadium "Academic" worth nearly 5 million. lv. To conclude, I would like to assure you that from the state's stated desire to invest funds in renovating or building football stadiums meeting the highest standards, sport in Bulgaria can only win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u115	Thank you, Minister Kralev. Docent Yordanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u116	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but he did not answer the main question: will the track of the stadium be removed in an urgent order of the track of the stadium Plovdiv, as requested? This answer is not to me? it is to the thousands of fans, contestants and coaches, supporters of athletics in Plovdiv, who put it on me, and therefore I put it on you. Secondly, the most famous stadiums have modern systems. One mechanism you said it by digging the terrain down, where temporary seats are built on the athletic tracks that allow precisely this notorious access of viewers closer to the football terrains. After passing the football competition and the need for the track athletics they are respectively removed. I think that modern solutions can be found which, on the one hand, can renovate the stadium of Plovdiv and, on the other hand, not to disappoint the fans of athletics in the city.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u117	Thank you. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u118	Dear Mr. Yordanov, I tried to be very clear in my answer. If Plovdiv wants to have such a stadium, the track should at some point be removed However, we do not have an emergency order that requires the removal of the track to date. First, in my ideas, you have to build the stadium for athletics and if the commission from the Ministry and Football Union approves this terrain for building a new stadium, only then can you think about designing, making plans and so on. There's a very long way to go until then. You can choose the other terrain, which is requested in "Lauta" can be chosen this one, but the road is very long. Only then, by having a public discussion, of course, in Plovdiv, will it be decided whether we are going to build a purely football stadium, or whether it remains this stadium as it exists. But in any case, if we are talking about a stadium meeting the criteria of FIFA and UEFA, it must be purely football. In Varna it was done the same way before the destruction of the old stadium and the construction of a football stadium was made. I think that these stadiums with capacity up to 2000, up to 3,000 people fully meet the needs of athletics, because we are far from the form in which we can host the World and European Athletics Championships, where there might be a need for more viewers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u119	Allow me to thank Mr. Krasen Kralev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the answers of Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. She will answer first of all a question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva about the actions taken on signals of violations related to construction activities on the Black Sea coast. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our question was asked weeks ago when events were very heated in connection with signals of violations related to construction activities on the Black Sea coast. Last month, there was a series of signals that got a wide-ranging media response. They were related to the destruction of dunes and construction activities along the Black Sea coast. Naturally, this also caused a violent public discontent, a reaction. The first signal was for a shocking criminal act of attack on nature in the destruction of part of the protected territory natural landmark sand dunes area of Kawaci in the area of camping. Signals for construction activities in the region of Varna, Shkorpilovtsi and St. St. Konstantin and Elena, in Aleppu locality near Sozopol, campsite "Gradina", Arapya locality. There was also a court decision to confirm the validity of a construction permit in the Coral area. Together with colleagues from the district of Burgas, we asked questions about the actions taken by the ministers of tourism and the environment and water. However, given the competences of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the Area, as well as the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, which provides for bans and restrictions on construction activities in areas..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u121	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, Mrs. Savateva, Mr. Boychev, ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has been working on the problem of illegal and excessive construction of the Black Sea. Our aim is to protect the public interest with the powers assigned to us and to ensure the correct implementation of national legislation. In this regard, even after the first signals of violations on the Black Sea coast, the head of the Department of National Construction Control (National Construction Control) - architect Ivan Nestorov - carried out urgent checks on the ground. He, together with the experts from the regional directorates of the DNCC and the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster, carried out on-the-spot inspections and documentary checks of all the sites for which signals were received to us or the media. The result to date is the suspension or freezing of construction in those sites. I'll give you the results. Regarding the construction in Aleppu locality, Sozopol Municipality with the entry into force Order of 5 June 2006 of the mayor of Sozopol municipality, was approved a detailed development plan, with of four land properties regulated two land properties in order to build fork buildings. By a decision of 14 September 2007 of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture and Forests, Burgas changed the purpose of agricultural land for non-agricultural needs and established sites and routes for design. With a new order entered into force on 9 October 2007 of the mayor of Sozopol municipality, a partial change of the properties in question was made, setting out new four regulated land properties and setting construction volumes for the construction of a holiday village, and providing pedestrian paths for access to the beach. By letter of 21 January 2015, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works was given instructions on the order and the necessary documents in relation to the issuance of prior authorisations under art. 96, para. Three and four of ZUT. By letter of 24 January 2017, the MRDP gave prior consent to the carrying out of geo-defense measures and activities, fortification and/or drainage activities in the order of LUT in the above-mentioned land properties in Alephu The main architect of Sozopol municipality was granted construction permit No 100 of 10 September 2018 for Resort complex "Alepu village" and stage one building of landslide, and stage two of the resort complex located in Alephu locality, the land of the town of Sozopol. In view of the detected violations and omissions in the permits issued and the construction papers at the construction site, by letter dated 5 February 2019 to the Head of the Regional Department of National Construction Control, the Mayor and the Chief Architect of Sozopol were given the building permit to be supplemented in order to distinguish the stage of construction. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, my answer to the question referred concerns several properties and is slightly longer than the prescribed time. If you give me a little more time to move on, I'll finish up in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u123	Go on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u124	In view of the objections received to the building acts drawn up, the procedure for issuing an order to stop part of the construction and assembly works of the site, with the exception of a shore support facility. In relation to the established violations of the Law, invitations were made for the establishment of acts for the establishment of administrative violations under the Law on administrative infringements and penalties to the builder and the person exercising construction supervision of the site. About the construction of the camping site.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... An application was deposited from 25 January 2019 by the construction entity "Gradina" in which a refusal to implement the construction was declared. In an additional inspection on January 29, the excavation of the construction site was found to have been flooded and the terrain leveled. Regarding the destruction of dunes on camping grounds, I would like to inform you that the destruction of dunes is a criminal offence and is not within the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and DNCC under the regulations of a structure of the territory. In view of the fact that the act is an invasion of natural property without the existence of construction and assembly works, the solution of the case is within the competence of the institutions concerned. For construction activities carried out in the region of Shkorpilovtsi, Dolni chiflik municipality, Varna district, DNCK and MRDP were not reported for construction activities in this area. Dear Mrs. Vassileva, Mrs. Savateva, in relation to the questions raised, it should be borne in mind that the restoration of agricultural land and the acquisition of property on them, including those located on the Black Sea coast, was carried out under the Order of the Law on the Restoration of Agricultural Lands of 1991. This was done before the entry into force of the currently in force of the Law on Structure of the territory, Law on Cadaster and Property Registers and Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, in which the ownership of sand dunes was indicated, and before the adoption in 2014 of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadast of thematic maps of sea beaches and registers, of sand dunes and properties in which they fall. For the majority of DNCC-tested construction works, detailed construction plans under which construction permits were granted to them were approved prior to the entry into force of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act of 1 January 2008, which lays down the conditions and procedures for determining the territorial scope of the Black Sea coast and the coastal beach, the requirements, rules and regulations for their construction, use, construction and conservation. I'll keep going in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Vassileva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for the detailed information presented. It is apparent that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and in particular the regional units, have committed themselves to the received signals and have carried out checks according to their competences.. acts have been issued to freeze the construction process and sanctions have been imposed. Perhaps, however, the most important thing is to take measures not to allow gaps and violations at all. We are aware that the vices are set back in time, even before the adoption of the Law on Construction on the Black Sea Coast, but the concern of the people in relation to these cases clearly expresses the will to preserve the natural resources and to protect the remaining virgin places on the Black Sea. Thank you for your personal commitment to making efforts to do so. I believe that both the preventive and the current and subsequent controls must be strengthened and that the effectiveness of control can be increased by establishing a coordination mechanism between the three ministries, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Tourism, to carry out systematic, complex, joint checks. Of course, I also believe that it is necessary to examine and analyse all the circumstances and details of the cases that we have cited, as well as the regulatory framework, and to propose adequate changes and to take action in the event of failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mrs. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get the dots and the additions to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, I know that you, as a member of the National Assembly, are on the Black Sea coast, as well as all the colleagues who live there, receive constant signals and questions from the people who live on the Black Sea coast. It should be taken into account that according to art. This is in connection with the legal framework, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the general and detailed planning plans for the territory of the security zones A and B of the Black Sea coast, approved until the entry into force of this law, shall remain valid. In conclusion, I would like to inform you about your proposal for joint work between the institutions that by my order of 4 February 2019 an interdepartmental working group has been established, which should address all problems on the Black Sea coast within two months, including those with dunes. I am committed to informing you of the results of the work of the group, because I believe that only our joint efforts, both of the institutions and your assistance as MPs, can contribute to the preservation of this natural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u129	Thank you, Minister Avramova. We continue with the next question for you. It is asked by the MP Stefan Burgeev about the state of road III-305 from the Republican road network, passing through the territory of the village of Sadovets and the village of Krushovitsa, Pleven district. Here you are, dear Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u130	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is as follows: the above road from the Republican network is in extremely poor condition, passes through two settlements the village of Krushovitsa and the village of Sadovets in the territory of Pleven region, the asphalt coating is destroyed, especially due to autumn-winter season and heavy rainfall, and numerous holes and bumps have formed. Emergency preventive measures must be taken to prevent traffic accidents. On this road section is also located a elementary school, which is why the road is used by school buses and its poor technical condition endangers the lives and health of the passengers transported. Given the particular characteristics of the terrain, which implies specific technical methods for repairing it, my question to you is: what do you foresee with regard to the coming spring and better weather, such as repairs for this road section, and what time will they take place? I'd like to make one clarification. This is not the first time I have put this question to you, as Minister of Regional Development for the first time, but we already have intolerance, me and the citizens, especially the villages of Krushovitsa and Sadovets, lied and ignored enough. The question is significant enough and I rely on a specific answer to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Minister Avramova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Burgdev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the past 2018, under the current maintenance in the section between the village of Sadovets and the village of Krushovitsa, the district of Pleven was implemented repair activities on the flooring of a total of 16 thousand. lv. At km 19, the road is affected by a landslide process in the village of Sadovets and the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively the Regional Road Management Pleven, are taking considerable care within their financial capabilities. The landslide array affects a large surface, not only the section of the Republican road, but also residential neighborhoods from the village of Sadovets and objects of technical infrastructure located outside the waitout of the road, respectively outside the API. For the poor condition of road III-305 influence the frequent accidents of the plumbing network in the village. In the landslide section, leaks of waste water have been found that further aggravate the condition of the road part. The removal of such described problems is entirely within the competence of the municipality. In order to resolve the problem in this area, coordinated action is needed for all stakeholders. In this regard, in July 2018, by order of the mayor of Dolni Dubnik municipality, a commission was formed with representatives of the municipality, Regional Road Management, "Geoprotectives" "Pleven," for the identification of activities to strengthen the affected area. As prescribed by the Commission by Regional Road Management Pleven, some of the necessary repair works on the pavement of the road have been completed. In the event of appropriate weather conditions, the implementation of the other prescribed measures will be planned for the use of caverns formed with suitable materials, laying curbs to the left of the road. For the complete solution of the problem it is necessary the Dolni Dubnik municipality to prepare project documentation and the API experts will fulfil their responsibilities in solving the problem. In the short term, the Road Infrastructure Agency is envisioning, as soon as the winter season is over, specialists from Regional Road Management Pleven will take a look at the entire route and identify the types and volumes of work that need to be implemented immediately to ensure passage and traffic safety. Their award will also be in line with the financial framework of the 2019 Programme. According to preliminary assessment for a complete repair of road III-305 Krushovitsa, the border district of Lovech with a length of 25 km, including the section between Krushovitsa and Sadovets with a length of about 5.5 km on the territory of Pleven region, requires about 13 million. lv. Currently, the Road Infrastructure Agency is preparing a list of sections that need complete repair. After validation of the 2019 budget, according to the financial framework of the repair programmes, it will be prioritizing the sites and, if funding is available, the possibility of major repairs or partial repairs will also be assessed. Mr. Burgeev, I regret that in this Chamber, both you and other MPs have to give answers which I personally do not want to give, but I am obliged to respect the financial framework of the budget. I cannot answer all the questions that are asked by MPs, answer affirmatively and say that these funds are provided and in the spring we will start repairing all parts of Bulgaria in need of repair. I understand that this section is important to people that it is in a difficult state, so it is my duty to inform you, after preparing the Agency's programme for the outcome of prioritization and what repairs will be carried out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u133	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Burgeev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u134	Mrs. President, Mrs. Avramova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The least I would like to do is to pick on and address the pó to the political side the issue, because I feel an attitude and a desire for understanding on your part, Madam Minister. I strongly insist with you in this financial framework, which you have just shared, putting the priorities to consider as a minimum rehabilitation, if not the entire section, there are extremely heavy sections in the order of 100 meters, 200 meters from different lengths, which are, firstly, a shame about what we represent as a state and an inconvenience for the citizens as well as for the Bulgarians, as for residents there, as the road is a major transport link between the highway and the new lot Ablanitsa, as well as the first-class road Pleven This is a bad business card for us. Once again, I am very fond of what you are giving as a signal that you will pay attention to the road, to allocate funds, we are aware, and citizens, although they are at least guilty and at least already understand, because they really feel abandoned, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the repairs on the water network must also be stuck by the state, as the water company is state-owned, and there must be coordination. This should not be transferred as a responsibility and a problem for citizens. Indeed, I hope that by the end of spring we will have concrete, at least taken, first steps to solve these difficult problems. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u136	Thank you for understanding. Mr. Burgeev, only a few touches will I do that, in fact, the Road Infrastructure Agency in Pleven District works and repairs roads within its capabilities, and in 2018 there was a construction of the Malchika road by means of funds from the state budget. lv. In 2018, with funds from the state budget started renovation of Milkovitsa, Somovit for nearly 5 million. lv.; by Dekov "Belene Road III-5202" 1 million. 200,000. BGN, which are transitional and will be completed in 2019. With funds from the state budget is strengthened and landslide at the village of Kozar Belene worth 3 million. lv. With the funds from the Operational Program "Regions in Growth" the rehabilitation of Lot 7 site road II-35 Pleven "Lovech" worth nearly 7 million. BGN, a rehabilitation of the road Cherven Bryag is carried out. So the care of the state is there and the Road Infrastructure Agency in all areas of the state is trying to solve the problems. We will also look for a solution to the problem you have identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u137	Thank you, Minister Avramova. Next is a question from MP Stanislav Vladimirov about repairing the road from Knyazhevo district to Daskalovo road hub. Here you are, dear Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the question I am going to ask is to repair road I-1 from Knyazhevo district to Daskalovo road node. According to traffic cams on road I-1 from Knyazhevo district to road junction Daskalovo from 276+162 km to 286+847 km with a total length of 10 km 685 m the average 24-hour intensity of the car traffic by 2018 is about 30 thousand cars passed per day. This shows that the route is one of the busiest roads in the country. Particularly large is the problem of congestion, the formation of columns in peak hours and on holiday days. At the end of 2017 and in 2018, a partial repair was made in the section of the road passing through the territory of Sofia Municipality to the border with the municipality of Pernik. The rest, which passes through the territory of the municipality of Pernik to the road node of Daskalovo, has not been repaired, despite your predecessor's assurances that 6 million were allocated for repair. lv. in 2018 and that will be enough to complete the section of the gas station "Lukoil" to the Daskalovo road node, the repair has not yet been completed. Given the extremely high load of the track, it is important to change the organisation of the movement by introducing a reversible one. Dear Mrs. Avramova, my question to you is: is the repair of the section from road I-1 from Knyazhevo to road node Daskalovo in the part passing through the municipality of Pernik, as well as the introduction of a reversible movement through traffic lights?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Minister Avramova, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Vladimirov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2017 the repair of the Republican road I-1 Sofia started. After preliminary assessment of the route, it is found that its condition in the territory of the district of Sofia is significantly worse than that in Pernik district. For this reason, as well as because of the large flow of vehicles that pile up at the entrance of the capital, the repair activities of the road begin first at the section in Sofia from Alexandrov Bridge to the border with Pernik district. Indeed, the plans of the Road Infrastructure Agency were intended in 2018 to cover the four-kilometer section in Pernik district, but in the course of the renovation it was found that the activities to be carried out in Sofia district were significantly larger in volume and the funds provided for, for which you have just mentioned, were insufficient to carry out repairs from the road in Pernik district. For the repair of Republican road I-1 on the territory of the district of Sofia for the period 2017 - 2018 5 million were spent. 400,000. lv. The section of road I-1 in the territory of Pernik district continues to be a priority site for the Agency, and by mid-March of this year, according to the financial resources of the repair programme, prioritising the roads in need of repair will be carried out. In the case of secured financing for the repair of Republican road I-1 on the territory of Pernik region, the necessary action will be taken for its implementation. In 2018, on route I-1 the territory of Pernik district took care of the current maintenance and the implemented activities to improve the technical operational state of the track totaled 110 thousand. lv. These include machine patching, visibility activities, installation of restrictive systems, horizontal marking, installation of additional road signs. We have not given up on the intention of introducing a reversible movement into the existing tri-band sections of route I-1. A project for the introduction of a reversible movement as part of the permanent organisation of the movement has been commissioned. It is based on research and analysis of possible situations. A complex risk assessment has been carried out. Following the preparation of the project and its coordination by the relevant institutions, the Road Infrastructure Agency will proceed to its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u141	Thank you, Dear Minister. Mr. Vladimirov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I no longer remember the seventh or eighth time I ask this question at several national meetings. It is delightful that there has been some development along the way Pernik "Sofia" to be repaired. At first, the idea was to expand. Unfortunately, in time this idea fell away for a number of reasons. You've moved on to a reverse motion. Your predecessor last year made a commitment that the road will be fully rehabilitated and that this reverse movement will be introduced, because, as I mentioned, this is one of the busiest sections of the Republican road network So I hope in the back you will take on more precise, specific commitments and deadlines when indeed, because I keep thinking that this should be one of the most priori roads for repair in our country. I ask you to make more specific commitments in the backrest: when will the road be completely rehabilitated, when will the reverse movement be introduced? Because I'm sure you and you know the constant problems that arise in this precinct. Let me just mark you: soon a new problem with one of the villages has emerged. This is one of the very large villages not only in the territory of Pernik district, but in the whole country. There, you know that because of a number of serious accidents with many deaths which occurred, the entry into part of the village was limited in this section of the road between Pernik and Sofia. This is also a problem that you will have to deal with. I hope, indeed, that, as you have said since spring, the rehabilitation will continue in the part of Pernik municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Minister Avramova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u144	Dear Mr. Vladimirov, I make a commitment, after discussing all the road arteries in Bulgaria from the Road Infrastructure Agency and their prioritization, to pay attention to the colleagues who are doing this, to your inquiry and to the opinion you have given for this time and your insistence. Just to tell you that in 2018, 2 million were spent on the ongoing repair and maintenance of Republican roads in Pernik region. 771 thousand. lv. Repairs are carried out on the territory of Pernik district. For 2018, they were made for serious amounts, with a major repair site on road III-1003 Rudartsi.. Kladnitsa from km 0 to 9 worth 5 million in the investment programme of API. Nine hundred and thirty-three thousand. BGN, currently taking place the procedures under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria. I will further inform you of the Agency's decision to repair this road. Regarding what you mentioned, the problem with the exit from Dragichevo village. There the Road Infrastructure Agency is working on the issue and will seek a solution to the problem so that it is convenient for citizens and, above all, safe for travelers on the Republican road network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the people presented Veska Nencheva on ensuring the safety of the movement by Republican road I 6 on the territory of the village of Kurnare, Karlovo municipality. Here you are, dear Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u146	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The question I will ask is, of course, related to the placing of the problem by the residents of the village of Kurnare when meeting them in the village, which is one of the settlements in the municipality of Karlovo. The question I raise concerns Republican road I-6, so famous for all the Sub-Balkan road. In his precinct is the territory of the village of Kurnare. It is for a road section with great workload and intensity of movement, and in close proximity to the buildings of the main administrative institutions, including city hall and school. The location of the road is such that the inhabitants of the village of Kurnare have no choice and every day they are all forced to go through this road repeatedly. To date, the inhabitants of the village of Kurnare have daily concerns and fears that the road is not secure enough. Therefore, my question to you is: what measures will be taken to ensure the safety of the Republican road I-6 on the territory of the village of Kurnare, Karlovo municipality? I believe that after the questions that colleagues have put to repair major road sections and major roads, it is possible to solve this problem, of course, with your cooperation and attitude towards the problems and, above all, the concerns of the residents of the village of Kurnare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u147	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Minister Avramova, come in. You have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ms. Nencheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Republika route I-6 Sofia "Scarlovo" Burgas passes through the village of Kurnare in the section from kilometer 238 to 239. In the region are located administrative and public buildings.School, City Hall, restaurant, as you just mentioned. The road has a high intensity of heavy traffic, but so far there are no registered sections with the concentration of traffic accidents, and no accidents. The Road Infrastructure Agency is supporting the section and the horizontal marking has been restored in 2016, in March this year it will be refreshed. The walkway at km 239 at the school in the village of Karnare is lit, signaled with the necessary road signs and was restored in April 2018. Asphaltobeton flooring is in a very good transport-service condition. Following an inspection, it has been established that no letters or signals have been received from citizens and institutions in the past two years expressing concerns over the traffic safety measures introduced in this section. So far, there have been no proposals either from the municipality of Karlovo or the town hall in the village of Kurnare for additional events improving the safety of movement. The Road Infrastructure Agency is concerned about safety in this area and, when the municipality has initiated an initiative, Karlovo is committed to participate with a representative in a committee if additional measures to secure this section are considered. Pursuant to Regulation No RD 02-20-10 of 5 July 2012, the decision on additional measures to limit speed, such as additional pedestrian paths, building artificial bumps, building traffic lights and others is taken by a committee with representatives of the municipality of Karlovo, Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Sector We are committed to participating in such a committee and, if further measures are prescribed by the Commission, to participate in their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u149	Thank you, Minister Avramova. Ms. Nencheva, come in, you have the floor again this time for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u150	Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! Madam Minister, frankly, I expected a much more committed response from you at the very least for the fact that it is easily resolved. I'll give you a reference that I received a week ago from the Ministry of Interior, which mentions that we have transport accidents in this particular area. For 2018, there are a total of two, but for 2017, there are seven. The heavy traffic accidents for 2017 are four, and for last 2018 there are two. We have one case of a dead person in 2009. I think this is enough as statistics, because this is about human life, about the safety of children who have to attend school, it is about these nearly 1,000 inhabitants of the village of Kurnare, who are important to me to cross the road safely. I don't understand the situation. No one's been signaling. [[Replys from Minister Petya Avramova.]] Yes, in fact, accept that my question to you is a signal for securing the passage along this path of the people of the village of Kurnare, because last year they initiated an event with which they could raise funds and make it possible to build some kind of facility to kill the speed of this republican road. There is a certain amount that is collected with the initiative of the Indro racers who are supported by the whole country. I believe that what can be done by the Ministry is of great importance - 90% of the population crosses this road every day. I told you about the crash statistics. I do not think that there is enough refreshment just on the pedestrian path, and I would like to present you with a signature with the signatures of the residents of the village of Kurnare, with which I would like to engage you to solve this problem, which can be found very quickly and very easily. Thank you. I hope for active activity on your part.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u151	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Madam Minister, you have the floor for the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Ms. Nencheva, I don't know how else to engage, except for the way I did it. The Road Infrastructure Agency will participate in the committee and will seek together with the other representatives of the institutions, as is in the regulation of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Karlovo Municipality, Regional Road Management, for a solution to the issue. All the questions that you are putting in this Chamber, I accept as a signal and as problems that need to be resolved. My commitment is complete for us to seek safety in this road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from MP Sevim Ali about the rehabilitation of Republican road 1-7 km 189+300 to road III 7006 km 202+290 from the branch of Sadovo and Vesenkovo in the direction of Varbitsa and the opening of the Varby Pass for the movement of motor vehicles. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs Avramova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Through the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare passes a first-class Republican road 1-7, passing through the territory of 5 districts, namely: Silistrenska, Shumenska, Burgaska, Slivenska and Yambolska. In the stretch from road 1-7 km 189+300 to road III 7006 km 202+290 the road is closed with a barrier and a forbidden road sign The necessary repair of the first-class Republican road 1-7, which passes through the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare, refers to 13 km from the branch for Sadovo and Vesenkovo towards the municipality of Vrbitsa. From km 188+800 to km 202+260 the gauges of the Varby Pass are between 4 and 6 meters and the condition of the road pavement is in extremely poor condition. Dear colleagues, Dear Minister, the road starts from the border with Romania at the Silistra border at the Silistra border and reaches the border with the Republic of Turkey at the border of the border of the border of Lesovo border at the border of the border of the border of the border of the border of the border of the Republic of Bulgaria. With the renovation of the main road 1-7 on the territory of the municipality of Sungurlare, conditions for economic development will be created for both the municipality of Sungurlare and at least five other districts in the Republic of Bulgaria and the municipalities within their scope. Improving transport accessibility will ensure labour mobility, an attractive business environment for local entrepreneurs and attracting foreign investors. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there funds in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in this year 2019 for the main rehabilitation and partial repair of Republican road 1-7 from the branch of the village of Sadovo and the village of Vesenkovo in the direction of Varbitsa, which is about 13 km long, and the opening of the Verbishka Pass for the movement of motor vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ali, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Republican Road I-7 begins at the border with the Republic of Romania, passes through the city of Silistra, the city of Shumen, Varbica, Elhovo and ends at the border with the Republic of Turkey. The road is the direct link between North and South Bulgaria in the direction of Ruse "Boundary checkpoint Lesovo." The section is about 13 km long and represents the Varby Pass. As you said, the section is closed year round for passing all types of motor vehicles by order of October 2012. The period of validity is until the next order is issued. The appropriate road signal is placed, alternative routes are provided through the Rishka Pass as well as through the Kotlenska Pass. The closing of the Varby Pass was due to its narrow gauge, which does not meet the legal requirements for a first-class road. Among the other reasons for introducing this measure are the large longitudinal slopes and the poor operating condition of the section. There's a lot of deformities on the track. Following an evaluation by experts of the Agency, it has been established that the road is not to be patched up. The implementation of partial repairs is inappropriate as they would not improve the quality of the road. As you have been informed by Mr. Nankov in the spring of the past year, to bring the parameters of the road to this part in accordance with the standards for the first grade road will need to shift the existing track along a new track, which means that in addition to the development of an investment project, procedures will have to be carried out to assess environmental impact, assessment of compatibility It is also necessary to comply with the requirements of the Cultural Heritage Act for carrying out preliminary archaeological studies. At this stage, the draft programmes of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" do not provide funds for the implementation of the above procedures and implementation of construction works on the Varbyska Pass. We need to take into account that the implementation of such a project requires the provision of significant financial resources. Over the past few years, due to a systemic shortage of funds in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively the Road Infrastructure Agency, construction programs are planned carefully so as to prioritize the most urgent problems to be solved. Despite these restrictions, the Agency has invested not little money in improving the Republican road network in Burgas region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u157	Thank you, Minister Avramova. Mr. Ali, come in for a line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I would first like to thank you for the answer you give me, but I am not sure if the inhabitants of Sungurlare municipality are satisfied with your response. As far as I understand it, there is no set aside means for repair and rehabilitation at both the road section and the Verbishka Pass, for the opening of the Verbishka Pass for the movement of motor vehicles. My question to you is dictated by my meeting with the inhabitants of Sungurlare municipality. They put the importance of opening the road section and repairing the Varby Pass. The issue has been raised several times by the management of the municipality of Sungurlare, as far as I know 2017, 2018 has sent a letter to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works requesting urgent measures to be taken to repair and rehabilitate the road section. As you said last year, I also asked your predecessor, then Minister and current Deputy Minister of the Ministry, which you head. His response was then briefly: with the introduction of the Tol system in 2019 will solve the problem of financing the road section and repairing the Varby Pass, and I assure you that if this road section is repaired and launched for the movement of cars, first, will contribute further to the development of this region, and, secondly, this is the most direct link between North and South Bulgaria in this area and will save a lot of money and time for travelers, precisely along this road section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Mrs. Secretary, I'd like you to come in for one last coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ali, I am absolutely solidarity with you that the roads in Bulgaria, including this road section, which you refer to in your question, and this passage, are important and would contribute to the economic development of the area and actually facilitate all travelers. I, like earlier today in this House, to say that I sincerely hope that road sector reform will be successful and 2020 will have more revenue in the Republican budget because 2019 is transitional. You know that we expect more revenue from the introduction of the tol system, not from the system of electronic wineries that is currently running, so from heavy traffic, from transit traffic in 2019 are fewer months in which this tol system will work. The main revenues that will fill this large deficit in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, which is necessary for repair, rehabilitation and construction of the roads in Bulgaria, will be completed and we will have the opportunity to talk with you on other topics and not just about road sections in need of repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. Let me thank Minister Avramova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to Mr. Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He will answer first a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova about the views of the Ministry of Education and Science on the future of language schools. Mrs. Petrova is absent. We continue with a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science to improve the educational function of education. Here you are, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Education is a comprehensive and continuous process and a person is practically brought up from birth to the end of his life, but the strength of the educational impact changes depending on age, on social factors, stereotypes and others. Education is a process of passing on historical experience and memory to generations. Education is a fundamental component of education, and it is worldwide for every society. Article H, para. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education states that the educational process includes education, education and socialization. The education is carried out through constant interaction between the family, school and society and includes all participants in the educational process and children, and students, and directors, teachers, other pedagogical specialists, parents. Nevertheless, upbringing is not given due attention. And now kindergartens and schools are doing educational work, but its parameter is not defined. A number of questions such as: what values to raise, how to raise, what role and place of teachers, parents, family, other institutions are waiting for their answer. I put this issue with the understanding that it is complex, multi-layered, difficult to realize and the time envisaged to ask a question of parliamentary control is very little. However, I am putting it because it is important because it excites all participants in the educational process and because it has been placed repeatedly in the discussion of the "Vision for Bulgaria." In a statement to the media, you, Minister, say that the issue of education will be a priority for the Ministry of Education and Science for 2019 and that a strategy is being prepared for the education of students. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science in the implementation of the educational function of education?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u163	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, the system of preschool and school education includes participants in the educational process and institutions, as well as relations and relations between them to achieve the objectives of education. By my order of 19 February 2018, I appointed an interdepartmental working group to develop a strategy for educational work in educational institutions. The draft strategy structures policies and measures related to educational work in educational institutions. Our aim is not to have another strategic document, but to encourage and deepen the conversation about its upbringing and relation to education by including all stakeholders. The educational function is an integral part, as you said, of the overall educational process. An innovative moment in the Preschool and School Education Act is the definition of education as a process that includes training, education and socialization. The Law sets out the goals of education, and each one of them can be associated with the educational tasks. Education as an important part of preschool and school education is integrated into the concept of key competences in its three dimensions: knowledge, skills and relationships. Knowledge is rather related to the didactic dimension of learning, skill development can be seen as a means of achieving educational goals. Authentic educational content is contained in the third component of competences. In the context of relations are concepts such as the attitude, values, motivations, displayed in the behavior of the person. Their formation is precisely an educational activity. At present, the Ministry of Education and Science organised discussions and working meetings on the draft strategy in the country between experts, representatives of educational institutions, NGOs, universities and stakeholders. We do not have a deadline for these discussions. They will probably continue with the publication of the Public Discussion Strategy, which we are predicting will most likely happen next month. The aim is to focus attention on the educational function, which has been neglected more or less in recent years and decades as part of the educational process. The questions around which the debate is structured are exactly what you have asked, and you have been asked, and me, respectively, at my meetings in the country. These are, on the one hand, what values do we want to raise children in? The good news is from the deliberate discussion we had on this subject that we have a relative public consensus on what we want to raise children as values in. Much of them can also be seen in the initial texts of the Preschool and School Education Act. A second fundamental question is how to educate, with which policy instruments we can strengthen the educational function. This is also the point of the strategy to give an answer, in whole or in part, to this question. And the third, very important issue that you also raised, put the relationships between the different participants in the educational process, how far the boundaries and opportunities of educational institutions for the education of children end, respectively, on the boundaries and opportunities of parents to participate in the work of educational institutions and how we share this responsibility. Indeed, as you said, it is time to develop the whole subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, since the children and students are the ones who will solve the problems that are now facing us, it is extremely important that education enable them to develop these abilities, skills and qualities that make them truly active participants in the rapidly developing world. Of course, reforms are required, changes, but for this education will help us to combat the lack of discipline, motivation, tolerance, escape from responsibility, non-acceptance of differences, non-compliance with the rules, school dropout and aggression. I would like to thank all colleagues who participated in the discussion, who sent numerous proposals and, allow me, especially to thank Mr. Pavel Velichkov from Varna, who sent us a comprehensive Concept for the development of education. In it he says: in order to implement the education, we need a new approach to the organization, structure, content, methodology and management of the learning process. Other proposals that we want to present and which should be the basis, which we have also included in the vision for Bulgaria.These are: the state subsidy to be linked to the quality of the educational process, respectively to the achieved results; new school plans, programs, educational content and, although biased, with particular attention to the history and its role in the formation of active civic position and for the preservation of our national traditions, and of course, there is no replacement of the Bulgarian culture, history and ideology in school. The teacher is very important. Let the profession attract young and motivated people who are given the opportunity to qualify, reduce administrative burdens, stimulate good results and creativity, provide support from a psychologist, pedagogical advisor to every child who needs them, the role of the family. As you said, we should have scheduled responsibilities, not just parental rights and how they should participate in the educational process. Of course, to continue stimulating extracurricular activities, the full - time organization of training, and quite practical suggestions such as optimizing the study material and reducing the number of students in the classes. Finally, education is indeed a challenge, an extremely complex process that requires dialogue, cooperation between school, parents, the whole society, as well as promoting innovation in the educational process, as well as lifelong learning skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u167	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u168	Thank you. Our aim is not to have another strategic document, but to organise as many discussions on the subject as possible. We accept today's question and what you said as part of these discussions. In fact, the proposals that you outlined cover the whole aspect of measures, activities, policies that are being carried out in the education system, not only from last year or from pó, but some of them are permanent policies in the education system. Education is a minute-long, hour-long activity. Each hour of activity involving all pedagogical specialists, respectively every policy instrument, must be reconsidered through the educational function. This is the purpose of the Strategy, it motivates the need to draw up such a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u169	Thank you, dear Minister. Asked by MP Tanya Petrova about the views of the Ministry of Education and Science on the future of language schools at Minister Valchev. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u170	Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! For more than 60 years language schools are among the most effective working non-specialized secondary schools in Bulgaria with proven high quality of the educational and educational process. Part of its measurements are the high results in standardized external assessments of all general education subjects, the achievements of the students of Olympiads, competitions, competitions at national and international level. These are high schools with established authority, constantly developing and skillfully combining traditions in foreign language education with the needs of modern times applying creative experiences and achievements of world education in close cooperation with various institutions............................ the Ministry of Education and Science, embassies of countries whose languages are studied in language schools. It is an undisputed fact that the graduates of language schools traditionally achieve the highest results of the state age exams, achieve subpoenas of national and international competitions, including in the field of natural sciences, national competitions, tournaments, laureates are on national Olympiads in all disciplines and are realized in various fields of knowledge. In many countries there is also the model of bilingual learning developed in Bulgaria.. Learning in a foreign language in subjects such as chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, history, geography and others. Billings training creates practical and scientific skills. It is usually related to the project of work and the implementation of good practices in European education systems. For students studying French, the acquired knowledge and skills can be validated after an examination with a certificate according to an agreement of the Ministry of Education and Science and the French Institute in Bulgaria. Students from language schools are realized as successful students at the Faculty of English Engineering, Faculty of French Engineering and Faculty of German Engineering and Industrial Management of the Technical University in the specialties chemical and biological engineering in French, chemical engineering in Bulgarian and German, metallurgy in English and show excellent results of SATs at the American University in Bulgaria and all higher education institutions in the country. In view of the above, with the deep belief that language schools provide quality education for young people in Bulgaria, Mr. Minister, what are the views of the Ministry of Education for the future of these schools, which we briefly refer to as language schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u171	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u172	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, the question of the existence of language schools is not raised. As you said, they are one of the schools with the highest results, established educational institutions. What is posed annually as a matter for each region is the validation of a reception plan. The reception plan is one of the main tools for directing more students to one or another professions, one or another profiles. You know that this year we formulated a policy for minimal restructuring of acceptances from profiles and professions unrelated to mathematics, technology and natural sciences to those related to mathematics, technology and natural sciences. Why? Because the biggest expected shortage of specialists we have for positions that require vocational and technical education, we have in engineering and technical professional directions. In some of them, such as energy, water construction, where units of specialists are taught, the shortage is dramatic. We also have a shortage of medical specialists. The sectors with the highest added value and the greatest export potential are related to engineering and technical sciences at the moment. Information technologies are the sector that will generate high added value, on which our pace of economic development will depend most, because we expect even greater digital transformations. And you see that all of the policy instruments are aimed not only at acceptance and interest activities, but also at the scholarships that we are more focused on. I expect a future shortage of priority professional directions in the system of higher education. All attempts to direct more students and students to these areas, these professions, these professional directions, these profiles, which are a prerequisite for inclusion in the system of higher education, which require a deeper study of mathematics, technique and natural sciences to overcome the big expected rift. Our responsibility as an institution is to take into account the collective interest and it would be irresponsible for us not to pursue any policy. What was the policy in the last decades? The policy of recent decades has been to the maximum favoration of so-called language schools. One period back? the number of students in high school, excluding the VIII grade, to have comparability, has decreased by 15%, the number of students in professional high schools has decreased by 24%, the number of classes in mathematics has decreased by 10% and in language schools has remained. These are the only protected high schools from reducing reception. In some district cities, their relative share in the number of classes after completion of primary education has increased twice and a half times three times, even passing 25% of some of the total admission. So if we keep going, at some point, there'll be only language schools left. Now we don't have any language high school drama. We have a collective problem that most of the children in these language schools are leaving the country. We pulled a background check. We issue certificates of 30% of graduating language high schools go to study abroad, from the mathematical school of 10%, from the professional school of 3%. On the other hand, business is constantly telling us that it wants to have more specialists. The collective interest of municipalities and regions is to keep more children in the country and regions. Of course, we can't do this under duress. We note that, on the one hand, there is a demand for parents and students, and, on the other hand, there are needs in the labour market. These are two separate markets that we are trying to link to policy instruments. We have to take minimal reasonable steps without it being at the expense of good schools. What we did was talk to the principals of language schools. We've drawn up a complex of measures. You know that the decisions on the acceptance plan are taken locally. This year in most districts we have no reduction in seventh graders, we have an increase compared to last year. When we have an increase, it is easier to make a restructuring policy. It can be done on the principle of non-lowing. However, when we have a total reduction in some areas, then there is always the complex dilemma of whether to be at the expense of the language school, whether to be at the expense of the professional, of another unspecialized high school or mathematical high school. This issue is currently being resolved at the regional level. In the previous years, unfortunately, it was decided primarily at the expense of professional high schools. In language schools those who are realized in the system of higher education remain in Bulgaria in the system of higher education. The good news is that not a few of them enter medical professional directions, which also require a thorough study of biology, chemistry, that is, of natural sciences, but disproportionately go into professional fields of social, economic and legal sciences. You gave an example, but what you give as an example is a small percentage, in pedagogicals, in agrarians, and which to me is a surprise in humanitarian, where philology is, even a small part of them go to study philology afterwards. We have already made priority and humanitarian professional directions because we have even a shortage of specialists with humanitarian education. If we can say right now that we have an excess somewhere, it is only in social, economic and legal sciences, where our policy of optimizing a state-funded admission continues. Our task is how in these best schools, where are the best students, because other schools can enter students with weaker results, but to have higher added value, this should be taken into account, we should not measure just by the outcome results to a greater extent to keep them in the country, to include them in the sectors where we have a shortage. As I told you, in some of them the shortage will be dramatic. We shouldn't just look at the tree in the case of language schools, we should look at the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for supplementary questions, dear Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I have listened very carefully to your answer and I wish in my supplementary question to affect the idea of the Ministry of Education and Science, which I have read about in these schools to introduce the so-called STEM sections and even opportunities for opening professional classes within language schools. Is there such experience in language schools in the country? Is there a positive result? And would you recommend that this positive attempt be shared by other language schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u175	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u176	Does he have that experience? At the moment, I do not know about the intentions of such language schools, but we do not yet have a proposed acceptance plan at the Ministry. And what will most likely be perceived as a policy is not language schools to discover professional classes, it is not to find profiles in the field of STEM to adopt a third and fourth profiling subject for some of their classes, I stress.Mathematics and natural sciences, this can be biology and chemistry with a view to future realization in the sector.Medicina, this can be information technologies and mathematics, information technologies and languages. Rather, my observations and the initial information we have is that they are orienting themselves not that they have not done so far, they will simply do so to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u177	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor for the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministry of Education and Science in Mr. Valchev's face for the information provided about the views on the development of these schools. My question, my question, was dictated by the desire of directors of language schools in Varna to hear exactly the position of the Ministry. I hope, and my colleagues will be satisfied with what I have heard, that the Ministry of Education and Science has a positive attitude towards these language schools and will support their work and orientation in the future in profiles that are consistent with the expectations of students, their parents. It is good that what they have shared with me, to share it here, too, where there are language schools in cities, if the Ministry considers it appropriate, to limit the disclosure of foreign language classes in neighbouring schools and to consider a map of language schools and the saturation in the country with classes that have enhanced foreign language training and extended foreign language training.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Donka Simeonova on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for prevention of violence in educational institutions. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! One of the serious problems in our society and in the Bulgarian educational institutions is violence among children and students. According to a UNICEF survey, over half of the world's teenagers were at least once subjected to violence by their peers at and around school. Physical violence and harassment interfere with the education of over 150 million children aged 13 years. The research by the Institute for Population and Human Studies in cooperation with UNICEF shows that the students in Bulgaria are among the top ten of 43 countries affected by the problem. More than one third of all students say that they have been subjected to at least once violence or bullying at school, physical and verbal aggression within a year. According to data from the Ministry of Education and Science over 8,000 cases of harassment and violence were registered in schools in total for 2016 and 2017. In 2017, more than 80% of Bulgarian schools filed at least one child abuse signal. Online harassment has increased significantly in recent years, and some of the cases are born precisely between schoolmates. The educational institutions have established their school policies in accordance with the Mechanism for Countering Harassment and Violence among Children and Students, which, I think, was established in 2010 and updated in December 2017. In November, launched a joint campaign of the Ministry of Education and Science and UNICEF together against Violence. Dear Minister, please answer the question: what is the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for preventing violence in educational institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u181	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Simeonova, this is a permanent problem. To be overcome, of course, entirely as an end goal, perhaps too ambitious, but to reduce cases, acts of aggression, a permanent and targeted policy is needed at both a system level and, above all, at an educational institution level. In order to achieve lasting and effective results, activities shall be carried out annually which are relevant to the ever-changing public relations and circumstances related to violence. What we have seen as a policy is to increase the number of appointed psychologists and pedagogical advisors annually. An additional 7 million were provided in the 2017 academic year. lv. on the appointment of psychologists in schools, thus defined and this allowed the obligation to be regulated in schools with more than 400 students to have at least one psychologist or pedagogical advisor. As a result of these measures, the school psychologists and pedagogical advisors as of October 2018 were 1571, of which 869 psychologists and 702 pedagogical advisors, their number being increased twice compared to the previous year. During this school year, we expect more of these specialists to be appointed, as conditional funds of 6.5 million were planned in the budget. for this activity. I am saying that because they are not targeted funds, but are provided additionally, which allowed us to reduce the border and regulate that all schools with over 350 students should have at least one and those with over 700 students two. We optimize the mechanism for countering school bullying and the algorithm to it. By optimizing the document, we aim to achieve better structuring of the work of pedagogical specialists with children and students and easing the administrative burden; actively works and the National Mobile Group for Psychological Support established by my order, aimed at supporting educational institutions. During the last 2017 academic year, the group worked on 21 incidents. In order to plan adequate measures for prevention of aggression and harassment together with the Institute for Study of the Population and Humanities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, a study was conducted on the manifestations of aggression and violence in school, as well as their mechanisms, motives and forms. In partnership with UNICEF, as you said, the campaign is being implemented. The initiative for joint efforts with UNICEF to develop the program that counteracts school aggression is evidence of the ministry's continuous efforts to work in cooperation with all partners. The aim is to outline the reasons for the difficulties in implementing the measures already drawn up to address the problem of violence. Taking into account the important role played by sports for the prevention of aggression, the National Sports Calendar has a number of activities planned, such as school games, including for students with disabilities, sports events, hiking and so on. A key point in prevention is coping with aggression in educational institutions is attracting parents as partners. In cooperation with parental organisations, activities are being carried out to develop a comprehensive policy for working with parents. When we talk about violence, every hour, every minute should be the commitment of every pedagogical specialist, of every educational institution and it also corresponds to all policies and activities, here I have affected some of them. There is no doubt that sports reduce aggression and violence. We have argued that even including in a number of extracurricular activities is also such a policy; inclusion in freely elected classes of religion is also a factor; the secure Internet environment. What we can say is that last year we financed all the schools to build Wi-Fi networks in schools. These are not just routers connected to each other, but with the corresponding firewalls, as in schools we need to talk about a secure Internet environment that will be available in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Although violence in educational institutions is a serious challenge, the educational system does not cause it itself. I understand, and we all understand how difficult it is in a society where we have other than aggression, value clash, demographic crisis, poverty and non-compliance with the rules, corruption to prevent violence in educational institutions. Generally speaking, you also said that this is indeed a comprehensive process related to the question of upbringing which I put a short time ago, that is, if we should rudely say, first, we must fix our society, because the school is a reflection of society. Of course, we have such a program and this is a vision for Bulgaria. The proposals I would like to make are on the way to preventing violence at school and kindergartens and again to thank all my fellow Members who took part in the discussions and made such proposals. And you said, first of all, you have to analyze the situation in every school and kindergarten and see the specifics, because somewhere they really are very unconventional. Building a positive and inclusive educational environment in which each student is important and important, that is to say, it is extremely important that inclusive education, which, however, also has the necessary specialists and means to be realized. The teacher's role is extremely important, but not only must the teacher himself feel prepared, but must feel safe and secure. Because when we talk about aggression at school, we talk about aggression against the teacher, of all kinds. The role of the psychologist, the pedagogical advisor, the resource teacher, you said, with over 350 students colleagues appoint a pedagogical counselor or psychologist, but the goal, the idea, should be that every child should have access to such assistance when it is needed. You also told her about the role of the parents. Yes, parents should be included, and not only when there is a problem, but at all in the overall educational process. There is also a need to increase knowledge about the types of harassment, violence, how to signal, and also the skills to prevent. As you said, the organization of children's leisure is extremely important, the role of sport, science, culture among adolescents. Some of the smaller schools insist on medical care funds in each school, security funds in educational institutions and, of course, providing funds for the implementation of all these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u186	Thank you. I agree with you the factors of the environment are numerous and they are reflected in the Bulgarian school. Even if we just look at video games, we'll see how serious a source of aggression is among children. We cannot change all these factors. It is a fact that the Bulgarian school and kindergarten very much help to improve the education of children, work for it and eliminate, mitigate the effects of all these factors. The school is not the main source, on the contrary, it is the main institution currently working for it together with the family. On the other hand, today's children are tomorrow's parents, they are tomorrow's specialists, the people who will form tomorrow's public relations, the people who will be on the road tomorrow, so we have to make the most of it as a system. You have listed the main spectrum in policies. They are both in your document "Vision for Bulgaria" and in the Law and in all political documents and in the role of the teacher. The fact is, to the most extent, we rely on the teacher. Teachers are the people who carry out the process of education and education in schools and that is why we have bet on them. The communal education. Just one clarification: this does not mean that schools with under 350 students should not have such psychologists. Very often the support is provided not only to psychologists and pedagogical advisors, you know, to resource teachers, to logos is provided by the municipality or by the regional center for smaller schools. In the National Program for Enlargement of Pedagogical Professionals in Deficient Areas, which we have proposed for discussion, we also provide a module for acquiring a second qualification because sometimes we have had this conversation with you. It is ineffective to go the specialist for four hours a week to a small and remote school. A partnership with parents is all the policies that we need to strengthen with the opportunities that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. The next, last, question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova regarding the retirement of the school director Ivan Vazov. In the village of Potochnitsa, Kardzhali district. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Valchev, my question to you is born, as I have described in the question itself, initially from publications in the media that I did not believe, then from the official position of the Association of Directors in secondary education, which I have already believed, and then from many calls from colleagues throughout the country. It is about the way Mr. Veselin Genov, Director of the Primary School of Ivan Vazov, is retired in the village of Potochnitsa, Krumovgrad municipality, Kardzhali district. I do not say it, says Mr. Genov himself in his letter to the Association of Directors that on January 29th the Head of Regional Branch, Kardzhali, Mr. Grozdan Kolev called him to the Regional Branch, wanted to give him notice of retirement. He refuses to sign it, it was a serious surprise to him. The notice was signed in front of witnesses, as per the law. Suddenly, without warning from anyone, on February 4th a commission comes to the school by representatives of the Regional Branch of Kardzhali, with the candidate for the post of Mr. Genov, who was subsequently appointed. Without being given a release order, they forced Mr. Genov to issue all the school records to the new director and informed him accordingly that he had to go to the Regional Branch to receive his retirement order. The guy ends his letter with: "This was mental harassment on me, I had a feeling of isolation and helplessness, and like the feeling of abuse with my dignity. To tell you the truth, this is starting to look like some kind of criminal company to me. I do not think that the employment contract should be terminated on any occasion, with any principal of a Bulgarian school. This was done by the employees of the RIO Kardzhali, with a good, proven and respected director of a small school, in a small village. Therefore, I ask you: are you familiar with the described case, what is your position as minister and employer of Mr. Grozdan Kolev, the head of RIO, Kardzhali, about his actions on the occasion of the early retirement of a long-standing and respected school director? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u189	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u190	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, you have asked a few questions, one may be about the lawfulness of the termination of the service, the other about the appropriateness, the third for purely human relations, behaviour in one such act of exemption. With regard to the legality, you know that in the operational autonomy of the Head of Regional Government is to conclude employment contracts, additional agreements to the employment contracts of the directors of municipal schools, and to issue an order to terminate their employment relationships. In this regard, Mr. Kolev has issued an order of 24 January to terminate Mr. Genov's employment relationship. I wasn't aware of that intention in advance. We don't have to, but we don't have such a practice. We don't have a single head of regional governance as an employer to inform us of these intentions. I myself learned about the case at the beginning of this week. Those legal bases in the order concern termination of the employment contract by the employer with notice of acquisition of the right to a retirement pension and the age of the teachers under the conditions of art. 69c of the Social Security Code. This is a specific regime in the legal framework for the retirement of pedagogical specialists under eased conditions, a lower age and less insurance service, which in practice is known as early retirement. At the time of termination, the Director was meeting these conditions. In this case, it is the employer's right. We can't talk about unlawfulness. What is posed as a question is: why is this early termination option used? This has been placed before. In accordance with art. 21 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination in the district of Kardzhali are defined and criteria apply when unilateral termination of employment under art. 69c of the Social Security Code. I've come to know these criteria. There are no such criteria. Perhaps when we have an attestation, we will also have an overall assessment that may not be the most appropriate criterion, but at the moment whatever criteria they sign up, they are not complete and we always have a perimeter of personal attitude on the part of the employer. It is normal to have such a personal attitude on the part of the employer, the question is whether it is professional or not. That's hard to say in this case. I've requested information from Mr. Kolev. He referred to the criterion of having another candidate formally. Unofficially, what he gave me as an explanation, I expect to receive this report from him and formally, he has referred to the other criteria for inefficiency of the Director's work. In this case, I cannot recommend a change of decision, but I will certainly recommend a supplement and a change of those rules. In fact, not only an addition, but perhaps the first rule of having another candidate, which has been quoted, should be dropped by these rules at all. That's what I can tell you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u191	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u192	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I have dealt with the material, as they say, and I know that legal grounds for the actions of the Head of Regional Government Kolev have. It's legal for him to act in terms of the law. But then I ask, first, what imposes the double standards for Genov one, for other directors, even retired and working, and for those who are in the identical position of Mr Genov, the standards are different? What's the reason? Secondly, what are the motives of the Head of Regional Government? You've just shared some, but don't tell me these are the motives that have been shared with the media because they're ridiculous. Mr. Valchev, you understand that every director will laugh if he finds out that someone has applied for his place and that is the motive of the head of the Regional Education Management to give him notice of termination of the contract? We know what the rules are for appointments of directors. Moreover, the person who has been appointed does not know him, I am making it clear that I do not know either the Head of the Regional Inspectorate or the Director in question. We're talking about principles here. The motive was that the man had ten years of pedagogical internship, although he hadn't been in the system for a long time. As it was hinted that there were some other things that the Head of the Regional Government had not mentioned to the media about the Director's work and so on, I will only tell you that, for the years in which this man was director, significant changes have taken place in the school. First in the material base: the building is sanitized, the window is replaced, the roof is renovated, the ceilings of all rooms are repaired, all lighting is updated, the interior furniture of the classrooms is completely renovated, the sports playground is fixed, new sports facilities, around the school is erected concrete fence. But more importantly, this man has built a teaching team that achieves good results in the school's education. The school has very good results in seventh and fourth grade, no poor grades. I repeat about colleagues, they do not know: this is a small school with about a hundred children. In recent years he has been involved in European projects. The director has no punishments, no other offenses, but he still has two years and three months until his regular retirement. Because, as I said earlier, he obviously didn't give anything to his school, in this situation he will retire and with a smaller pension these are the conditions for life.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u194	One second! I know, Minister, there's a law, but there's morals. And I don't think that in the current situation with a shortage of good staff and at all of staff both teaching and leading in the education system, this way of acting as head of regional education management should be tolerated, all the more so, that I told you that this is clearly a double archin. I believe that you, as Mr. Kolev's employer, have mechanisms by which he can revise his actions or the least of Mr. Genov's to find him a decent place so that he can ultimately, when he retires, receive the reward due because I think he has given enough to the educational system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-02-15.u195	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. That was the last question for Minister Valchev today. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, Mr. Minister. The next regular plenary session shall be on 20 February 2019, Wednesday, at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
