ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I'd like to introduce you to a message. On the basis of art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are presented a protocol by the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" in which with a decision of a meeting of the Parliamentary Group of "United Patriots" on 25 July 2019 for a change in the composition of the parliamentary group is excluded from the parliamentary group Volen Nikolov Siderov, Desisslav Slavov Chukolov and Pavel Dimitrov Shopov. Next are the signatures of the Members of the National Assembly of the United Patriarchs. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in the weekly Programme for Work of the National Assembly the following additional point: Hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests on the grounds of art. 113 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the critical situation with African swine fever in the country. Importers are Dragomir Stoynev and Svetla Bachvarova on 25 July 2019 and I propose that it be included as point 2 for today's plenary session, the remaining points are renumbered accordingly. Please, voting mode. Vote 192 MPs: 188, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: NEW CONFIGURATION OF THE COMPANY OF THE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-D-SAB, F-16 BLOCK 70 AND F-16 BLOCK 70 AIRCRAFT AND ASSOCIATED SUMPPORT), INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT (LOA) BU-D-AAA. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Defence Committee to brief us on the report. Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 173 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria of 23 July 2019 on the return for a new discussion of the Law on the ratification of the International Treaty BU-D-SAB At a meeting held on 24 July 2019, the Defence Committee examined that decree. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov, Secretary of the President of Legal Affairs Emilia Drumeva, Secretary of Security and Defence Stefan Yanev, Deputy Chief of Defence Vice Admiral Emil Eftimov, Commander of the Air Force Major General Tsanko Stoykov, Security and Defence Advisor of President Iliya Milushev. The decree and the reasons for it were presented by Professor Emilia Drumeva. In her statement, she noted that the Law was returned as soon as possible, and the reasons put forward were focused primarily on the legal aspects of the instrument of ratification. In support of the thesis, an interpretation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria No 9/1999 in Constitutional Case No 8 of the same year, with which the court considered the ratification law and the international treaty incorporated therein as a single act, which is also the logical basis of the President to state in his reasons the need to ratify the Law at two separate meetings of the National Assembly despite the constitutional possibility to carry out the procedure at one meeting. The reasons also note the Head of State's view that in taking strategic decisions of this nature it is necessary not only to provide the financial parameters of the contract but also to provide broad consensus and support. According to him, this has not been achieved and there is no public agreement. In his speech, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov voiced disagreement with the reasons of the Ukhaza, pointing out that the approach adopted not only does not contribute to the establishment of a greater public agreement, but instead introduces a new, harmful dividing line in society. The MPs Hristo Gadzhev and Emil Hristov expressed a strong disagreement with both the reasons for the return to discuss the Law and the way they were presented at the meeting. It was pointed out that the procedure for the adoption of the Law by two votes in one sitting in no way hindered the discussions on the substance and the expression of views and beliefs of the MPs by the parliamentary political forces represented by the Commission. The long and unlimited discussion in plenary and in the Defence Committee, as well as the lack of specific proposals for a second vote, is the main reason for passing the Law under the adopted procedure. In support, it was pointed out that in the practice of the National Assembly until now have been seen in one sitting with two votes 58 ratification laws. People's representative Milen Mihov disagreed with the return of the Law, pointing out that the reasons do not have the strong reasons for this. According to him, the President's assessment of the ratification procedure itself, with an element of edification, is not enough argument, but an indication of the President's lack of consideration, when, after great efforts and more than a decade, the solution of strategic questions for the future of the state is finally being addressed. In his speech, the People's Representative Jayhan Ibryamov expressed disagreement with the Decree and the reasons for it. He highlighted the existence of wide pluralism during in-depth discussions during plenary and the Commission meetings. According to him, with such pluralism of opinion consensus is impossible, because the basis of this concept is the understanding of full agreement on any issue.. something which is virtually impossible and not necessary. In his speech, the national representative Valentin Radev presented a number of examples in contrast to the statements made in the statement of reasons for the lack of sought agreement in society, the absence of a clear answer whether such agreement is actually achieved with the contracts concluded, and the claim that the ratification of such a particularly significant contract was carried out on the fast track. The MP also pointed out the need for a state-owned understanding of the importance of the Treaty as a trust in Bulgaria by such a strategic partner as the United States and its importance of full interoperability within the framework of collective defence. During the discussions were asked questions by the MPs Georgi Andreev and Nikolay Tsonkov about the clauses for termination of the contracts and the likelihood of unilateral actions by the United States in the event of a possible failure by Bulgaria to comply with other joint contracts, as well as for cutting the pre-ordered package of capabilities of aircraft, which significantly reduces their operational capabilities. In response, Deputy Minister Atanas Zaprianov pointed out that the termination clause exists, applies to both sides and is a guarantee against serious changes in defence policy. It shall in no way affect other agreements between the two parties. The clause can only be implemented in the event of serious motives threatening the substance of mutual arrangements and strategic partnership. The commander of the Air Force Major General Tsanko Stoykov completely and convincingly rejected any doubts about cutting the capabilities of the acquired aircraft F-16 Block 70, bringing concrete data regarding the implementation of equipment, weapons, ability to conduct and target, training of personnel, infrastructure, etc. Regarding expressed doubts about the US confidence in Bulgaria as an ally with direct regard to the financial terms of the Treaty and the need to pay the entire amount, was strongly expressed by the leadership of the Ministry of Defence in the bankruptcy of such suggestions. On the contrary, the United States of America has repeatedly, and during the entire negotiation cycle, declared their recognition of the country as a true ally, have full confidence in our capacity for independent solutions and invariably confirm their high assessment of the Bulgarian army and our armed forces. Only the lack of credit history and the related national legislative rules are the reason for the conclusion of the Treaty in this way. In conclusion, the Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov thanked all participants in the discussion. Pointing out the immense importance of the Treaty, he called, without regard to party affiliation, to assess the effect of the possible delay in Ratification. Noting that the MPs are obliged to predict the effect on the modernization of Bulgaria's aircraft if the veto is not rejected, he also stressed the need to take into account the effect of the debate on the people in the Air Force whether it gives them security or divides them. After the discussion was concluded, 20 MPs took part in the vote. The Defence Committee adopted the following opinion by 13 votes for the defence, 7 votes against the defence committee and without abstention: Offers the National Assembly to re-accept the Law on the ratification of the International Treaty BU-D-SAB "Airplanes F 16 Block 70 and related maintenance" and the International Treaty BU-D-AAA "Boesources in support of F-16" and the International Treaty BU-P-AAD "Sidewinder AIM 9X Block II rockets, related materials and services" and the International Treaty BU-P-LAR Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov and Deputy Chief of Defence, Deputy Admiral Emil Eftimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 163 MPs: for 157, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Come in for your speeches, fellow Members. Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! We are discussing an extremely important issue of both financial and economic and political and geostrategic nature. I therefore propose, with arguments and facts, that we calmly discuss our position, which is to support the veto of the President of the Republic, for the following reasons: At the first minute I would like to recall the conclusions of the working team of the Bulgarian Air Force. First, their conclusion is that the possible legal disputes between the seller and the buyer are settled only under the law of the United States of America, with all possible legal expenses in the future being at the expense of the Bulgarian State, instead of taking place under international law, as is the practice of concluding such interstate contracts. Secondly, the warranty terms and conditions of the claims are formulated primarily for the American side. The third finding was that the standard terms of the contracts were fixed unilaterally and are not subject to change at the request of the Bulgarian side. Fourth, that the government of the United States may unilaterally change the terms of the treaty. Fifthly, the ownership of the aircraft and the weapons are transferred to the place of their production, the United States, and we bear all the costs of testing and their delivery in the Republic of Bulgaria. Sixth, the supplier of the United States is exempt from any legal liability, including penalties for failure to comply with the terms of the contracts. Now specific facts about what I told you from the task force. Firstly, in terms of price and terms of payment. The price, honourable Members, is too high because of two groups of criteria. First criterion. Compared to similar transactions in the last two years 571 thousand. The dollar. The price of the Bulgarian aircraft is 162 million. Five hundred thousand. The dollar, which means that the incomplete Bulgarian plane costs 34 million. USD more than the plane delivered by the same company, according to the same type of contracts of Slovakia. By calculating according to the estimates of both the American side and the prices of the individual items in the four contracts that we consider, the full kit of the aircraft's armaments goes with the full set of 200 million. U.S. dollar. If we compare the complete set of Slovakia and Bulgaria 128 million respectively. 571 thousand. U.S. $200 million. The US dollar, Slovakia's aircraft with full weapons, pilot training and technical staff, honourable colleagues, is cheaper by 72 million. U.S. dollar. Or in total, if we calculate for eight fighters multi-target, the price of Bulgaria is 576 million. USD higher than that of partners in Slovakia. According to the second criterion, if we compare the same supply, the same type of aircraft, the same modification for a NATO non-member country, the second deal with Bahrain since 2017, the price of one aircraft is 146 million. 578 thousand. US dollars -- that is -- Bulgaria -- a member of NATO, a loyal partner of the United States of America -- pays 53 million. US dollars more for the same plane and the same kit compared to Bahrain. Second criterion. Compared to the more modern F-35 of the Fifth Generation, compared to F-16, I did a study, including here is the magazine of the "Difens News" issued in the United States of America, and the information from the Pentagon and the US government is currently preparing for serial production at purchase prices of the United States Air Force, they are three modifications between 97 and 122 million. U.S. dollar. So we're paying for an airplane developed from the 1970s, 200 million. US dollars for the fourth generation package. The fifth generation of aircraft between 79 and 122 million. US dollar, is to be released into production and at these prices to be purchased by the Air Force of the United States of America. Compared to the third criterion, compared to a competitive model of the same class in the competition, which was closed, not only in our view, unlawfully by the Bulgarian government, was proposed by one of the competitors of the US company for 800 million. U.S. $10 fighters, which means that by recalculating the cost of a fighter, we get 20 fighters instead of 8 at the same price as a competitor producing the same class of fighters in the European Union. Next, the negotiating team has not achieved absolutely no price concessions despite the following facts: The first fact is that this plane is not available, it has not been manufactured. It is in a construction phase, i.e. the buyer of the Republic of Bulgaria, takes a risk with a huge budget investment because, honourable colleagues, military production including the airline are expensive products, high-tech, it is a high-tech company. These products work at the limits of technological possibilities. The risk of military production is much greater than of civil production. Our country is financing the development of Lokheed Martin, which has annual turnover, do you know how much? I've looked at a little over 50 billion. US dollar, and the four main suppliers in total have a turnover that twice exceeds the gross domestic product of the Republic of Bulgaria. However, there are no concessions for us because we are involved in development, which is risky. In addition, I said that Bahrain is not a NATO member, yet the price for us is significantly higher. Next, Bulgaria, compared to another country, has provided four military bases for the joint use of bilateral treaties, not with NATO, but with the United States of America. We are the only country in the world that freely provides bases for use by another country. Any gratitude? No! We pay a higher price than Slovakia and Bahrain. So no concessions have been made, although Bulgaria and our partners together with the United States of America, our military units participated and participated in Iraq, in Afghanistan, unlike the other side, but there are no price concessions for the Republic of Bulgaria. Economic disadvantage for Bulgaria is the one-time payment at the moment of 2 billion. 300 million. BGN, and in fact with the completion of the plane, only this, about 3 billion. lv. The advance payment of such a huge amount is a problem for a country like Bulgaria, which is the poorest country in the European Union. The problem is because we once had to propose an update of the budget. Secondly, the government had to block this is also a military strategic issue, the modernisation of the naval forces and the land forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Do not doubt that at these huge costs, which await the construction of the infrastructure for new aircraft, I do not see how the modernization of the Bulgarian land forces and the Bulgarian naval forces will be financially ensured. Moreover, the price is not final, honourable Members! During the second few hours of reading the contracts I went a second time, I spent several hours reading because there were questions that I wanted for myself, and also because of you, colleagues, to share and which I thought were important. First of all, the price is not final because the contract says: a forecast price. "Project price" means that the price that is now stated is not the last price, and in the clauses of the contract very clearly, very correctly the supplier has indicated that it can without warning change the prices by 10%, consider automatically how many are at the moment " 230 million." BGN, without a second thought. There's no supplier who won't take this opportunity. Secondly, the contract says that only with notification without the consent of the Bulgarian side can the price change by more than 10%. The contract under estimated price says something interesting that I didn't notice at first, but there it says: a start-up deposit. Please note that the two numbers are equal to the required deposit and the estimated price, which means that this is an initial deposit for us Bulgarians, too, we are facing difficult times. This initial deposit will be supplemented by additional funds. The contracts are entirely in the interest of the buyer, honourable Members! I quote the contracts: the contracts are not secret, they are not classified and cannot be published in the Official Journal. I'm doing you this service. I'm only quoting two or three clauses of the contract that are freezing not only in my opinion. Listen: The buyer shall be obliged to waive liability for damages to the Government of the United States of America, its agents, employees and workers for any loss or liability, both in the course of offences and under a contract which may arise in connection with the present agreement, due to injury or death of buyer or third party personnel, property or items purchased by the buyer under the current OPA agreement. Second, 4.4. The buyer agrees to the following: ..4.4.1. To pay to the Government of the United States of America the total value of the items, even if the price exceeds the estimated amounts under the current LOA. It is the sixth point in all four contracts. sixteen. The Government of the United States of America shall not provide or provide any guarantee for any of the items sold stronger than that of this Agreement, except as provided for in point 6.1.1, which shall guarantee property rights. No guarantees for any device, no planes, no engines, no rockets, no airbombs! Dispute settlement, I quote: It's not a This LOA is subject to US legislation and regulations, including legislation in the part of the public procurement of the United States of America. To open a clamp. Someone here was trying to insinuate and lie about military production not being sold on public procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, and for the richest countries in the world, especially for the United States of America, a needle is not bought from the Pentagon without a contract, unlike Bulgaria. ..7.2. The Government of the United States of America and the buyer agree to settle any disagreement arising in relation to the current LOA, pay attention..................................................................................................................................................... There is an error in translation, I have also checked with the lawmakers this is not the international tribunal, but it is international arbitration. So here we have signed that if differences arise, we have no right to complain anywhere. They didn't just mention the Armenian pop, there we could turn for help. In addition, when I said they didn't take any guarantees, look at the Ministry of Defense's responses to Mr. President's motives. And on the last page, one of the last sentences, be careful, fellow Members, it says that the guarantee that is not in the contract, but the guarantee that the Lokheed Martin is giving to the U.S. government for the planes we buy is six months. Ladies and gentlemen, by law in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian state standard, I looked at the coffee maker at home, when you bought it, the guarantee is 12 months, a computer 24 months, a plane of 200 million. The US dollar paid by the Bulgarian people is with six months warranty, of the U.S. government's Lockheed Martin. Well, ladies and gentlemen, don't Bulgarian pilots go and get property in the United States?! The entire period of pilot training, staff training, flying on planes, will be on the guarantee of six months. They'll practically land planes here without any guarantee. The guarantee will fly like the storks in the autumn to the Egyptian pyramids and we remain with 2 billion paid. 300 million. BGN, with planes of 200 million. U.S. dollars that don't have any guarantee as a coffee maker. These are our representatives' signatures! Pay attention, the Industrial Cooperation Agreement is highly amusing if it is read. There's a long list of what the seller can do, how to help us sell guns, but where, how, what weapons, there are no commitments. Quoting the contract: "Restriction of liability." First of all, 5.3.1. I quote:... the Ministry of Economics.................................................................................................... [[noise and lines]] This is perhaps the most important part of our meeting, I ask you for one minute to hear what this treaty says: the Ministry of Economy is irrevocably giving up any claims or protection based on sovereign immunity or state actions and will not claim or defend in arbitration, or proceedings for the enforcement of an arbitration decision. That's amazing?! I read it three times. I couldn't believe it. Bulgarian Minister, representative of the Bulgarian government, has given up national sovereignty here?! It says here that we are giving up national sovereignty and we have no right to make a sound on this treaty. [[Heckling]] The contract is for industrial co-operation. The fifth contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u5	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u6	In the end, the question arises... It's on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u7	It's not about the subject, because we're talking about contracts here.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u8	I'll explain why it's on the subject because it's a condition of the deal. Other countries and nations, when buying fighters, they enter into offset contracts or for real industrial cooperation, and here cooperation is not real. Finally, who signed the contracts? It was something that was also amazing. On the Bulgarian side, the contracts are signed, as follows, at the highest level of two ministers - Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy. And do you know who signed the contract on the other side of the two main supply contracts? It was signed by Dwayne Long, head of department at the Foreign Military Aid Agency. Head of the department! He's not the head of the Agency, he's not the deputy chief of the Agency?! Head of Department has signed with the Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister contracts! [[Noise and lines.]] It says in them! What intergovernmental treaty? There is no Secretary of Defense of the United States or of Finance or anything; there is no Deputy Minister; there is no Head of Government. There's no one here! Did you ask these people if they had an official power of attorney from the United States government? [[Noise and lines.]] Is it right for one country to sign contracts, our Deputy Prime Minister with whom, with the driver of the Pentagon bus?! Have a nice day. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. The line is Mr. Gazhev, then Mr. Radev. [[Noise, excitement.]] You've made us very happy, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev or still Agent Ikonomov of the First General Administration of State Security in American Government! [[Noise and cheering.]] I would like to ask you now: what is the name of a person who perverts the facts to create alternative reality and false news? First of all, the contract is completely standard. The contract is not only for Bulgaria. [[Shows document.]] Here it is, by the way, here are the terms! They are downloaded freely from the website of the same agency that you told us six countries, they are blanquet and are for absolutely all countries. The terms of the contract... [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Here, I'll leave them to you to read the terms of the contract that you quoted here, one by one. Here they are, point by point: 4.1.1, 6.4, it's all here. They are downloaded freely from the Internet because for the American side they are blanquet and given to every single country that buys arms from the Americans. One hundred seventy-nine countries and organizations have agreed to these conditions in 40 years. Germany and Greece were granted the same conditions only this month. Are both the German and Greek Government incompetent and unable to defend their national interest? They too, Mr. Gechev? All the things that you have quoted under the treaty are absolutely untenable, not to say that they are untrue, as the conditions are the same for all countries, not more or less, both for Bulgaria, for Germany, for Canada and for every other country. [[Heckling]] There are guarantees inside, there are penalties, there are everything. And the price, by the way, as I have also read the contracts, the price is not what you say, because the price of the plane is an obligation much below 100 million. the dollar for Bulgaria. Everything else is equipment extra, equipment, training. Let's split things up. Read the paragraphs carefully again. On the front, as you know, there are some tabs where it says what's worth. Let's not fool the people here. It's not the price at all! So to suggest in some way that the Bulgarian government has not defended the national interest in general and has not achieved good agreements or that the US government is appropriate to be unfair and dishonest towards Bulgaria and has twisted our hands to nothing more than an absolute and abominable lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Second line, Mr. Radev? Mr. Radev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u12	Thank you, Madam President. [[The National Representative Hristo Gazhev spoke with the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u13	Mr. Gazhev, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u14	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gechev, you were able to do what was expected from the beginning to get us into the details and continue what the President said in his motives. We're not talking about the big picture, we're talking about: Let's see details that are very easy to manipulate. All those things you said, there's an opposite argument probably, at least from the colleagues who worked. But I'll tell you something else that you manipulated this room with last time. Yes, I'll give you that, you're a very good speaker, a university professor, you have experience. When a man listens to you with his eyes and ears open, he says: "Yeah, I even wondered why you didn't get taken to the state to do what this big team does, maybe we would have bought at half price these planes?............................................... [[Heckling]] But what did you do last time? I guess everything you just said is pretty much in the same pattern. You said this: Why Bulgaria invests in the US economy, the military industrial complex, there is a company to which we give a lot of money? But you said half of the truth that's how you manipulate it, it gets very beautiful. You forgot to say otherwise that Bulgaria has given more than 2.2 billion. lv. in the European economy. I've said it a few times, and now I'm going to give you a quick list, because I won't have time to be sure. We have invested in the military industrial complex, as they say, or in the French defence industry with cougars 12 plus 3. There were six of them, our government reduced them by three. From Italy we bought Spartans, and there we invested in their military industry. We bought Spartans, that's one thing. We bought from them. There are soldiers here. They know what that means for over 100 million. All those three governments before GERB's first government. We bought more than 700 vehicles from Germany, maybe 300 cars, 400 armored SUVs, Mercedes, we bought everything from there. Over 217, if I'm not mistaken the number, the fire department from France and there we invested. Only a while ago we bought over 400 cars for the police. We invest in this economy all the time. Back to the military industry. I will tell you that we bought something from almost every country in Europe. The number over the years has been more than this deal we are talking about since 2000. You forgot to say that, and when you say only the first one, yes, all the grumps and say: "Yeah, how could we invest there?....................... even though only the first one we had done in the US economy alone, there is still an excuse based on what Mr Tsonev said last time. So you're cleverly manipulating, but by quoting, tell one and the other truth...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u15	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u16	...and everyone else will draw a good conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u17	Mr. Tsonev, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gechev, someone here lied last time, so you said about public procurement, purchase of airplanes and other countries that used the competition, tender and so on. If your whole speech is built on false statements and hence, of course, false conclusions, that is another matter, but no one has lied here. The thesis was not that other countries buy without orders or orders, because there is no way to know if we have not specifically checked which country's laws allow without auction and competition and which one they do not. The thesis was another: Bulgarian legislation allows the purchase of such large-scale equipment without auction and competition in direct negotiations with the seller and this is art. 13 of the Public Procurement Act, where the exceptions are: A t. 13 in this Article. 13 concerning the matter in question, so that no one here has claimed that other countries and nations do so. We argue otherwise that the Bulgarian legislation allows this and that for far less important for the Bulgarian national security cases have been used. Our statement is that for the purchase of such military equipment concerning national security, these possibilities of legislation must be enjoyed, because this is not just about money, it is not just about conditions, it is about security, it is about partnership, it is about what our strategic choice is.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. For the coat, Professor Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, thank you for your lines. They 100% confirmed that what I say is true, as I quote the treaties. That I have not told about the European Union is not my duty. Since you asked the question, I'll tell you. Yes, we have never claimed that we do not invest in the European Union either. Of course, we're investing properly. We never said we shouldn't invest in the United States. We have to invest! The United States is a high-tech nation. It is a leading market economy, a leading country in NATO. What we dispute is the terms of the treaties. In this case, we invest in the United States of America at risk. We're investing in a venture project! And your examples, colleague Tsonev, are about things you can touch. You said we bought trucks. Where are the trucks? We bought ships. Where are the ships? Are they in the drawing? [[Heckling]] We bought things that were made in Europe. In Europe, we have not invested in risky projects. If we invest in risky projects, maybe, but then there should be a discount on the price. After that, the Public Procurement Act. You say that the laws allow, well, that will decide the follow-up actions whether or not we can. But the institutions in the Bulgarian state of this government made a big mistake. They've organized a contest that you're criticizing. [[noise and lines]] , canceled the competition and I did not want to mention all of us to keep our fingers crossed the Swedish company if he filed a case for a winning contest cancelled by the Bulgarian state, I do not say whether it is legitimate or not, but if it goes to international arbitration, our costs will be significantly higher. By this point you're right. So who's responsible? The government of GERB, which repealed a legitimate international tender competition and brought our country into new adventures! How do other countries and nations buy? [[Heckling]] Well, I've done my best. It's my job as a MP. I came in and checked: the public procurement for re-arming with new and multi-target fighters of a beautiful, democratic, highly developed European NATO country is being completed. In Finland, the negotiations will end at the end of the second year with a public procurement contest, while here in a few weeks, and now we are racing to conclude a contract of 2 billion. 300 million. lv. And who's in the Finnish contest? There are two American companies involved. "Lokheed Martin" participated with F-35. The Finns don't want to buy a model that doesn't buy the U.S. Army. By the way, I didn't tell you last time the U.S. Army hasn't bought it since 2005.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u21	The weather, Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u22	So the Finns, two American companies, I am graduating,............................................. and the French............................................ That's how they do competitions! Learn from Finland, do not conclude humiliating contracts for unconditional surrender. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u23	A statement? Docent Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start with one reasoning, since today, and the last time, there is talk of investing where we invest when we pay for arms. I don't accept the thesis that we are currently investing in the American economy. I do not accept the thesis that we have invested in the European economy. I do not accept the thesis that we have ever invested in the Soviet economy, as the costs of armaments and capabilities of the Bulgarian army are an investment in national security. And today, all this army of ours serves with weapons and weapons from countries that are no longer there, but they continue to be the power of the Bulgarian army. And on this point, let us not fall into this: where does our money go? Our money goes where it needs to be, so that Bulgarian men and women under pawns can be reliable defenders of our Homeland and pay our freedom with less human blood, having more modern means. But I would like to return the debate to today's agenda. Today we are discussing at second reading the law returned by the President to ratify four treaties, four interstate treaties between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States. It's not between the Secretary of Defense and some clerk or bus driver. That's how the president wrote it. I trust the President that he returns interstate contracts, the titles of which are written in 12 rows, and I read the reasons that are written in 37 rows: for four contracts "37 lines," a standard typing page. Last time we argued here in the parliament between the opposition and those in favour of this deal and these treaties and against. Now the dispute is between us as an institution and the president. I therefore read the President's motives, these brief 38 lines, this one side that disputes a law concerning four international treaties. In accordance with the Constitution............................................................................................... 1, the President has the right to re-vote one law. We read carefully and see what is under the word "Motives." We have a statement that the President cannot be indifferent to the processes of modernization of the Bulgarian Army. Yeah, that's true, only in art. 105 of the Constitution is clearly written that foreign and domestic policy is governed and implemented by the Council of Ministers and further under the supervision of the National Assembly. We have one wish: there should be broad consensus and support on this issue. Very well, it's written on our building, it's our national motto: The Unity makes the power. But in parliament, achieving a full consensus is a historical fact. It was between 1949 and 1989, when all decisions from the Law for the annulment of all laws before 9 September 1944 until the overthrow of Todor Zhivkov from the post of President of the Council of State were taken absolutely unanimously. But I think this period of absolute unanimity, by virtue of art. 1 of the Constitution has long been denied in our society. One concern: that the lack of such consent is extremely worrying, I read the words of the motives. I think that differences and consensus are both sides of values that are in dialectic connectivity, that unity does not deny differences. And the fact that today the opposition has the opportunity to repeat its own is a sign of these differences. In the next place, an assessment, an assessment of the work of the National Assembly, that we have exceptionally accepted on a rapid track and have ratified these very important four international contracts, citing the provisions of art. 8, para. 1 of the Constitution, which determines the way legislative decisions are adopted, laws by the National Assembly. But the president's lawyers have missed the fact that there is one article in the Constitution. 85, which is a special text and which determines the way international treaties are ratified. [[Heckling]] Well, they didn't write it here. Next, we see an instruction, almost an edification to the National Assembly: it is not acceptable in solving such strategic issues for Bulgaria, such as guaranteeing national security, to use the procedure....................................................................................... I will not quote parliamentary practice, I will only give two examples. On 11 May 2005, the National Assembly ratified the Treaty of Accession to the European Union under the same procedure. On 18 March 2004, the National Assembly, again on this exceptional provision, ratified the Treaty of Accession to NATO. These are contracts that determine the fate of Bulgarians for generations to come. Parliamentary practice shows that international treaties are generally, standardly, routinely ratified at two readings in one sitting. And this is not because of some discrepancy, but because of the constitutional text, which determines that when ratifying an international treaty, the National Assembly can amend it, it can be amended only by virtue of this treaty or by the rules of international law. In other words: between first and second reading, the National Assembly has no power over the Constitution to change these treaties. Finally, there is one statement: objections and proposals were expressed in the plenary of the National Assembly which could not be developed and discussed due to the abridged legislative procedure. Personally, I cannot agree with that statement. The debate on these issues was very broad, publicly reflected and the opposition was not and no one was limited in their speeches. We can conclude from all of this: that there is no argument in these reasoning for the return of the re-voting. We have a statement, wishes, concerns, assessments, allegations, instructions, but we have no argument. And if there is no argument, the constitutional condition for the return to be motivated is not met. For art. 101 clearly states: motivated to return the law. In this case, the President has failed to comply with a constitutional provision, returning for ratification these four important treaties. So the Constitution very clearly declares that the President is an irresponsible factor, he is not subject to parliamentary control. And in this case, we can only express one regret that the President has failed to fulfil his constitutional obligations. That is why we do not accept these motives and will not support the veto. I'll end up with some historical words. Georgi Stojkov Rakovski 200 years ago said one phrase: "Mechom are the Bulgarians lost their freedom, they will bear it. Today, we can continue to think that we must bear witness to our freedom. There's no strong army. There's no prosperous Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Loud applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u25	Thank you, Professor Mihov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. Do you know anything about airplanes? [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u26	Can we do this before the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u27	I apologize for saying that line. Please, speak up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u28	And can you say it more clearly once again: I apologize for questioning the expertise of the MP?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u29	Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u30	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take an example of the President's motives, and I would just like to draw attention to the fact that it seems strange to me that the representatives of the parliamentary group of the United Patriots are already involved in defending the fact of the ruling majority GERB and DPS, but this is another topic, is not a topic of today's discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u31	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u32	I'm reading! I read to you the reasons of the President, part of them: "Bulgaria needs an airplane with multifunctional capabilities, which is achieved not only by its qualities, but also by a full package of weapons, accompanying equipment and training of the personnel. Because, as the president said, it is a clear answer to the public whether this is really achieved by the contracts concluded. I will not tell you my opinion on this, but I will quote the opinion of the military expert on this plane. I quote: In its entirety the parameters of the proposal in quantitative terms do not correspond to the requested quantities by the Bulgarian country. The discrepancies are expressed in reducing certain quantities of supplies and services, which is dictated by the Bulgarian country's desire to achieve an acceptable price. It is important to note that such a reduction of the acquisition package would inevitably result in a reduction or limitation of certain aircraft performance capabilities, i.e. multifunctionality. The latter is a phrase with the declared requirements of the Concept for the construction of combat capabilities and more precisely the acquisition of a new type of main combat aircraft and the provision of integrated logistical support. I continue to quote: This approach in the implementation of the project will lead to the need for additional financial resources, in addition to the sum total of the four letters for proposal and acceptance, which have already become ratified contracts, at a later stage, but within the period before the physical delivery of the planes in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to acquire the missing capacities. The American side has also, notice, very rightly paid attention to the risk of implementing this approach in obtaining the complete kit of armaments and capabilities for the aircraft, saying that if reduced supplies are not financed immediately after the possible entry into force of these letters, we have a risk to the operational ability of this aircraft to perform its multifunctionality. With regard to the construction of the accompanying infrastructure project, I continue to quote: The proposals show that it will be at the expense of the Republic of Bulgaria, in particular the Ministry of Defence. The United States reserves the right to inspect, assess and certify certain parts of this infrastructure which the United States defines as critical for the efficient and safe operation of the aircraft. It is clarified that a possible dissatisfaction with the criteria can lead to a compromise of the project in the worst case scenario. The termination, but we've already paid, haven't we? We've got $2 billion. 200 million. lv. about this thing. The financial resources needed for the construction of the necessary infrastructure in Bulgaria, which are at the expense of the Bulgarian country are still unclear given the upcoming view of the air base. Well, I ask: in this opinion of the military expertise do you think that we will limit ourselves to just 2 billion. 200 million. lv. Or are they waiting for us, come on, if not at least that much more, but at least another billion that we have to pay back before the plane comes to Bulgaria so that it can perform its functions? The President also expressed his concerns about the guarantees regarding the terms of the Treaty. For me, it is really also of interest to me how will you, here in this Chamber, vote on something that will currently be a law under our law, but under American law and by what we sign, for Americans will be a wish? Desire, because we have a price that is estimated, with opportunities, as stated in the Treaty, to increase it if necessary, and if it exceeds 10%, we will be informed of this thing. I don't blame any of our partners we've had conversations with. They defend their interests consistently and have indeed succeeded in achieving it. The bad news is we didn't protect ours. What is the most important thing I want to say to you in the end is that the President really performs his duties as Commander-in-Chief and concerned about the Bulgarian armed forces. [[Noise and lines.]] For this reason, it gives us once again the opportunity to discuss the possibilities for these contracts not to be ratified because, colleagues, it depends on you now and on which button you will press, whether it will be by order, by conscience, by understanding or because it is in spite of what the future of the Bulgarian armed forces will be, and in particular of the Bulgarian Air Force. Otherwise, speaking of buying the most modern plane, we're not buying the most modern plane right now. We're buying the most modern plane drawing right now. And what is more important, we can say that this plane will be the best, but provided it is really with its full combat capabilities, including ammunition, which are necessary for point-blowing operations in support of operations of Land Forces, I mean laser-guided ammunition, not free-falling bombs. Colleagues, in the end, to be aware of what this is about, if you open the official website of Martin Global INC, you will see that the system that is about bomb docking and bomb flipping is suitable and adapted to throwing, including free-falling nuclear-type bombs. I ask you, if this plane is potentially a carrier of nuclear weapons, do we increase security in Bulgaria, or are we trying to make it a target for a forward strike? It is up to you, on your vote, what will be the result. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Bikov, come in. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u34	A little more than you. Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I do not understand from airplanes, but I understand these politically and here we comment on the veto of the President. This is perhaps the stupidest veto in the last 30 years, imposed by a president with absolutely ridiculous motives. [[Applause from GERB.]] There's never been such a funny veto. Therefore, you do not comment on the motives of the veto, but repeat what we said a week ago. I am going to ask you: what public debate was there when President Radev's caretaker government pointed out to be a winner in the competition? Were you then familiar with the proposals of the.........Gripen............................................................................................ Here in this room, was there any debate when the president, a few days before the expiry of the office, forced Prime Minister Gerdjikov, by his own admissions, to make this decision? Is there a consensus on the Grippen? What were the parameters of the armament of Where was this armament to be bought, to ask you, when the Grimpen does not produce one? What would it be, perhaps American? Because the advocates themselves and the lobbyists of Gripen claimed that we would buy American weapons, which would have cost, believe me, much more than this armament of aircraft, and we have to be honest with the people. You must answer, and not you, but the president of these questions, because the President has done the most opaque thing in this whole history. He made a decision without parliament, without public debate, without consensus, without consulting the people. And last but not least, who's been talking about an election campaign for the presidential election that aviation is going to be shot down, that there are no planes and that they want a new plane? Who, in the name of consensus, agreed to be a new plane because, if you remember, there were cheaper offers for second-hand aircraft F-16?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u35	The weather, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u36	In the name of consensus we agreed to be the new plane and the same person, who obviously has other goals, not only political but also financial, has now decided to hinder the modernization of the Bulgarian Army and to fail it practically because if we accept this veto, modernization stops for the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u37	The weather, Mr. Bikov. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, it's nice when I make a statement and you want to give me a line, to hear me from the beginning. In the beginning, I read the President's motives and gave an answer to the military's expertise on these motives, whether or not this plane is functional. As you can see, the military expertise itself, which has appreciated the capabilities of this aircraft, says no, is not functional as it is, and needs to purchase various additional weapons. This costs money to the Bulgarian taxpayer, takes away from social security systems, from the energy security system, from the education and healthcare systems additional resources, so that this aircraft can become multifunctional if it ever happens and it appears in the sky. Please don't blame me for not mentioning the President's motives, but I did stick to them. As for whether flu or F-16 are the planes to be bought, it is not the National Assembly's job to evaluate individual types of aircraft. Our job is to have such contracts to protect the sovereignty of Bulgaria, national security and, above all, our dignity as a state. Not to be something that smells like a dictator signed under the baton of a conductor, unknown why it's overseas. For this reason, once again, I say: the President has given us an opportunity right now, this time to think further and make our own responsible decision................................ whether we will support such a treaty that obliges us but gives us no rights, or we will come to our senses and ask for some kind of correction of these treaties?! And since you are talking to me about the flu, I should ask: for what reason then already appointed Prime Minister Boyko Borisov said officially to the Swedish side: we come and sign the Treaty on the Flu? Maybe he was misled by the president, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Hristov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bikov, thank you for bringing this debate back to where it belongs. I have not read the treaties of Slovakia and Bahrain, and hardly anyone in this room will ever be able to read them. But when you compare a known and unknown magnitude, what is the result? Untrue result in all cases, and the false result can only be used for manipulation. So let's look at the veto as part of a two-dimensional process of political or strategic, and this has already been noted, and parliamentary, if you want, constitutionally. On 26 June 2013, the Minister of Defence Angel Naydenov signed Order No OH-40 and on 19 July the same year the road map for the implementation of the main actions, with one deadline for the project to be submitted by 10 October to the Council of Ministers. I'm sending you back there for a reason because this warrant is key. It is a logical consequence of two documents. One document is the concept of defence capability building, and it is from October 2012 and I quote a single conclusion: The used fighter plane in the package proposed by Portugal and the United States has the best comprehensive indicators and the most fully responds to the established requirements. Read this concept. And the second document is the Project Implementation Report of 12 March 2013. The failure, colleagues, of this order of the Minister of Defence, then Angel Naydenov, and I cannot claim that it was deliberate.. stops the work on the project and later gives a new direction in its realization. So far, in society, among the politicians and mainly among the specialists who work, there is confidence that the work on the project is going in the right direction, that the management of the Ministry of Defence, the management of the project and the team of specialists are united, that is, we could say that there is, if not wide, at least a good consensus and public support. I'm not mentioning this for a reason. In other words, if not a public agreement, there is peace and confidence in the team that is working on the project until 2014 when Since then, and so far, there has been a fault in society, among politicians, insurmountable contradictions. Over the years, these contradictions have become deeper and more and more irresistible. They have been questioned, pay attention to the competence of the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, the decisions of the government, the activities of the National Assembly, and as amazing as it sounds, the professionalism of the officers of the Air Force who worked on the Project and participated in the negotiations. Reference: the motives. All these actions have led to doubt and insinuate mistrust, firstly, the work of the National Assembly and its right to rule on this extremely important and unbearable delay in questioning the decisions of the government by questioning its actions. The way they presented themselves in the public domain led to a feeling in people that the government did not protect the national interest. The actions of the Ministry of Defence's leadership were questioned by denying everything he had achieved in the process of working on the Project and conducting negotiations by the negotiating team. The competence of the Air Force officers and generals, some of whom have been working on the Project since the beginning, is questioned. Instead of receiving recognition and gratitude, the entire nation is argued that the choice of fighter and the terms of the contracts do not meet the national interest. All these people deserve recognition, not reprimand. If all these actions were intended for separation, estrangement, distrust, success. They have also managed to present Bulgaria to allies, partners and neighbours as an unstable and unreliable partner, who has been unable to accept his membership in the Euro-Atlantic structure for 15 years, or at least one part of the politicians cannot accept this. A contract is concluded between two parties and each of them seeks to protect its interests and achieve better conditions. If one of them considers the terms unfavorable, there is no contract. Discussion of a contract, considering only the benefits to the other party, without presenting what has been achieved by its negotiating team, aims only to present the contract unilaterally as unfit and pursues the objectives that I have already listed. Therefore, when discussing the treaty, it must be considered on both sides in its entirety. The examination of the contracts because a contract is written in the motives, not the answers to selected questions aimed at creating false impressions. Once contracts cannot be published so that everyone can compare them, the development of those that national interest is not protected, using only carefully selected issues, aims only to manipulate public opinion and represents an attempt at another deviation from the modernization of the Air Force and creating a negative attitude towards them and the people who worked for the implementation of the Project. A careful analysis by the politicians of everything that has happened so far is necessary, colleagues, and not only of what has been said so far. In the second dimension, I join the opinion that this is the first veto imposed by a president whose motives are not based on reservations, doubts or a clear disagreement with the provisions of the legislation, but only the procedure for the adoption of the Law by the National Assembly. The inalienable right under art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution is used to question the right of the Members of the National Assembly to decide for themselves the order in which to adopt the laws and to deny in this case the possibility which gives them art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution: Only the Members of the National Assembly can decide whether to adopt one law in two readings and how to vote on it. These rights are also reflected in our......................................................................................................... 80, para. 2. Intentionally, I leave behind motives, such as broad consensus and support, there is no dimension; there is no lack of public consent, however, of the alleged citation of Decision No 9 of the Constitutional Court of 1999 aims only to justify interference in the work of the National Assembly. In the same decision, however, the Constitutional Court explicitly states that whether the two votes should be held exceptionally in one sitting, I quote: the question is given exclusively to the assessment of the National Assembly. Also, further on the question of the correctness of the considerations which led to the two votes being held in one sitting, the Court again explicitly states that it cannot be ruled, that is, the decision in this case is taken as appropriate by the National Assembly. The reasons also state that it is not acceptable to use an exception procedure in solving such a strategic issue for Bulgaria. An example of really serious and important decisions voted on in one sitting for Bulgaria has already been set. The National Assembly has the tools, there is also the attempt to correct errors if they are allowed, and it uses them. An example from yesterday, yes, I made a mistake, I apologize! I've been corrected. So someone removed from interfering with the work of the National Assembly, teaching him how to work is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I can't see. Other speeches, colleagues. Mr. Vangeliv had made a statement.....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u42	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will try not to repeat the prefaces and stick to the motives. First, we must clearly tell our people that if we do not modernise our Air Force within ten years, Bulgaria will not have an air force; if we do not modernise the Navy within ten years, we will not have a military fleet. If the opposition's goal is not to have a fleet and an air force, let them say it. Because if we stop this procedure now, if we don't conclude the contracts and start all over again, we'll get to the point that in ten years' time, our army may already be armed with sticks, bows and arrows, as the current technique will have exhausted its life cycle. The veto says it is necessary to provide state-attainable financial parameters. Bulgaria is neither in economic nor in financial crisis. This year, 115 billion gross domestic product is expected, and I see no obstacle to this deal being made. In addition, it is a one-time payment, a one-time event that will not be loaded, will not even lead to a change in the fiscal objectives of the state. And in this regard, 2% is nothing, because according to our agreement with NATO, we need to reach this 2%, and this year we will exceed them. Again, once again, which you should applaud, not point out as a minus, if you are concerned about the fate of the Bulgarian Army. By the way, this obviously does not interest you because: who serves in the Bulgarian Army? The Bulgarian people are the sons and daughters of the Bulgarian people. Therefore, I cannot understand why the President's address says that the contracts were at the expense of the interests of Bulgarian citizens? That the sons and daughters of the Bulgarian people serve inside. The army belongs to the Bulgarian people. The money is given by the Bulgarian people. The modernization will set 40 years ahead the Bulgarian Army and will protect the sovereignty of Bulgaria, so what interests are violated the Bulgarian citizens, I do not know. Regarding the price, I would just like to say one thing: all those who speak must declare a lower price should we pay if we do not now conclude these contracts and conclude contracts for the delivery of airplanes in one, two, three or four years? Are they going to have a lower price F-16, a Grippen and a Eurolighter in one, two, three or four years? The world's military market prices grow annually, so if you really care about the price, because you constantly point it out, should you say lower prices at military production worldwide? I have nothing else to say and to repeat just one more thing: it is not true that the last planes will come in five years. The first planes will start arriving in Bulgaria in two years and the latter will come in early 2024. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, to me, the behavior of BSP colleagues is incomprehensible, unmotivated and I would describe it as an attempt to sabotage the modernization of the Bulgarian army.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Vangelov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Netsov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I confirm the consistent position of the Volya party and of our parliamentary group against the looting deal for expensive aircraft, which are absolutely unnecessary expenditure at the current standard of living of Bulgarian citizens. When such a big deal is made, there must be a great political and public consensus. It was absolutely true what we have been warning about for two years now with this 3 billion. lv. will not put an end to the costs, but on the contrary, they will continue to increase. The vote in the Chamber shows that the ratio is 130 against 110 if we look at the representation of the parties. More than strange for the entire Bulgarian people turned out to be the Coalition VMRO. At the same time, two of the so-called patriotic formations, which are in the government, supported the position of Volya and announced against the deal. Turns out the little coalition in the government is against buying these fighters. If Minister Karakachanov's parliamentary group recalls that it is also declared patriotic and defend the national interest, then the votes in this room will be 120 against 120. This confirms again that there is no consensus on this important decision for the State. Moreover, the majority elected politician, only the president, also changed his position and stood behind Volya, imposing a veto [[crowd cheering, laughing]] on the deal and declaring it unreasonable in terms of funding and economic consequences for the country, which basically means that it is not relevant to national security at this time. The President's opinion on this deal has a particular weight, as he is a general and until recently the head of the Air Force. We congratulate the President for finding the courage to cancel his own radio silence principle on the deal! We have always worked from WOLIA to have a broad political consensus on important topics for the people, and we believe that we have done a good job when other politicians start using our messages. In this case, we are even hopeful, because the fact that some recognized those of the Vole suggests that state-owned thinking has not disappeared. As you know, at the end of last week our leader Veselin Mareshki sent a letter to President Trump. In it he asked him some important questions, including this: why does the rich America so pressure the politicians of poor Bulgaria to spend such a huge amount to buy their planes? We believe that Bulgaria's position in these negotiations was not equal, but of a subordinate state, and that is unacceptable! That is why we will again vote against the purchase of fighter planes. We want a review of the work of the negotiating team because we believe that it acted incompetently and to the detriment of Bulgaria. We call on you to support the veto to stop this looting deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Netsov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. President, I'm addressing you, and I'm actually going to talk to you because that's what you asked for with the veto. I admit you surprised me, I even bet my colleagues that you wouldn't veto it like a flyer and a guy who's always been behind modernization and has spent so many years doing... [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "You will lose it. "]] Well, I hope I don't lose the other one for the budget. Don't do it now. [[Radio.]] In 2012, you, Mr. President, convinced us that I and the political leadership that the F-16 is the best second-hand plane I'll repeat this until I get an answer as to why it's not. We convinced the government and we were about to close the deal. Five years later, during the caretaker government, the month of January, May 2017, you said suddenly: "No! I'm changing my mind: "Gripen" is the best plane ever. Two years later, now you're saying again: I think another F-16 is the best plane for our armed forces. We'll take it. You, as president, can change your mind, although the opposition constantly and greatly blamed the prime minister for this: morning one opinion, evening another. And now the president's changing it. I don't blame him for that. It's a sign, as Einstein says, of intelligence to change your mind, not to be stubborn. I've been stressing these facts to make sense of your motives, Mr. President. In short, to me they sound so brief, so that I do not go into details: You say that the devil lies in the details, that is what you tell us with the veto. For the F-16, we found out about the direction you probably didn't understand. Look, please, that's what you're saying in the details. Yeah, but not like a famous journalist of ours used to say. Mr. President, you are asking us to forget the overall global picture, the direction, what we are doing right now for our national security and that there is a party and it is called the Political Party GERB, of course, with its coalition partners, and an opposition force that supports us in one of the most important solutions for the modernization of the Bulgarian army to buy the F-16 platform. For the first time, such an investment is being made for a means of fighting; for the first time the modernization of the Bulgarian army is not some chimera, but something we can touch, see it, and it happens in front of our eyes; for the first time the United States has seen a predictable partner who can be trusted by tracking the work of the governments, first, second, the third of GERB, and they said: "Yes, with you we are ready to make such a treaty. That is why I am convinced that in this case the devil is not at all in the details, but in the global things, in the big picture, that we have made a very right choice for our national security, and that is the truth. That's why you, Mr. President, are throwing us into the details, and here was very well taken over by the opposition, and we all got stuck talking about contracts. We, of course, do not have the opposition dealing with things that are normally decided and are not the work of the National Assembly. In my opinion, we should control the government, watch what it does and look at the direction. Here's the motive. You, in the motives that are on one side to excuse me colleague Mihov, I will still allow myself to say that there are two motives, he says that there is no, but the first and most important, that there is no consensus, there is not enough discussion, the society is not aware of what it is and you are doing these things in the dark. That's not true, Mr. President, and I'm going to draw some numbers. That's the first one I think of as motive. The numbers are: from 1 to 24 July "for 24 days, 84 printed materials, 250 electronic publications in 134 electronic sites. A total of 384 or 14 publications per day for less than one month for influenza, for F's, for aeroplanes. Here my colleague Bikov paid attention, I've drawn even numbers. For the three months of the office, when you so quickly changed your mind and chose the "Gripen", the printed publications are 20 and 14 in electronic divided by three because they are three months by 0.6 publications a day. Twenty-three times less publications about your choice of "Gripen." Well, please don't blame us with this motive that I still accept out of respect for you that there is no public debate now, no consensus, and almost no one knows what we're doing and we're doing it in the dark. Your second motive is for this fast track that you wrote in quotes. I assume you've edited the lawyers' motives and added instead of the procedure......................... for understandable reasons. Is it a fast track, however, and did we do it right? I, like colleagues, will quote. You wrote this: The Law on the ratification of the contract for the purchase of the F-16 Block 70 airplanes, that is in the motives, should have traveled the overall path of art. 88 of the Constitution adopted two votes in separate meetings of the National Assembly. Two votes in separate sittings! In addition, the Law ratifying such a particularly significant contract was adopted on the fast track. " This is the quote from the motives. I read another quote: The ratification law, which actually carries out a validating contract, is a classic example of the category of law in a formal sense. In the practice of the National Assembly, it is customary to adopt exactly the ratification laws at first and second readings in the same plenary session. That, my dear Mr. President, is what your secretary for legal matters says. Professor Drumeva also used to say a lot of things to us, but here she wrote it in the Book of Constitutional Law 2008 - that is, you have been misled, and she is trying to fool us that this is a fast track. She herself says that this is a classic fast track for such contracts. So there's no way I can accept your second argument. For the details, though, to respect that, because you're asking for details. You've received 19 responses from the Department of Defense. I've read them, and we've all read the answers of our colleagues. I address you and ask you is not masculine, it is not worthy not to trust your colleagues. I'm sorry, but I wasn't fooled by everything when we entrusted them to you. You were the expert and we believed you then. Why do you not now believe the same people who are more competent than you, or at least better informed, are in the kitchen today, know the details, and sow all your colleagues with one such doubt? I can't accept that. Finally, I will conclude by saying that you do not say a word about how much it will cost if we go into these details, if we had gone to the platform, if we had gone to the platform, the colleagues hinted here, without armaments, without communications, from third countries. Over the years, you've been talking about two billion, maybe one more, maybe more. Yeah, but if we'd made the other choice, who would make that assessment? There isn't one. I overheard here on the left of slogans. I'm beginning to think that by losing the big picture, we will have to start explaining to our colleagues that Bulgaria is not a Trojan horse on a capital located east of us in NATO. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? I can't see. The word is Mr. Simeonov. Here you go. Let's extend the group's time. [[The National Representative Valeri Simeonov kisses the hand of President Tsveta Karayancheva, who comes out of the room. Laughter. Revelations: "Eee! " - Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u48	Honourable outgoing Madam President, honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We accept the current debate on the veto imposed by the President as an ethud from another stage of the political theatre. I support all my fellow Members, and I am convinced myself that I have come to know the reasons that they are deprived of beings. Motives are purely political, I'd say populist. In my opinion, they represent interference in the work of the National Assembly, which is contrary to the principle of separation of authorities. He has the right to veto, but there must be arguments and motives in substance and not related to the work of the National Assembly, which, moreover in this case, does not tolerate any reproach. More than that. I believe that Mr. President vetoed this veto on purely political motives, and I would say insincerely and hypocritically. If Mr. Radev wanted to hinder this deal because he is convinced that it should not be realized because it is not in the interest of the Republic of Bulgaria, he could safely impose the veto on 31 July 2019 because then it is the deadline for the payment to be made by the Bulgarian State. Then the deal would not have been possible because there would have been no ratification of the National Assembly. She would have been rejected. He didn't do it, which means his action is political, pro-forma and just to win certain public dividends, not to say populist dividends. We from the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria will not support the veto [[Applause]] But we're going to vote against the law. [[crowd cheering and chirping]] , again for the same reasons. Now in essence, since I believe that most of the previous speeches were not essentially, they entered into details that were not commented by the veto.. Technically, financial and so on. I am not a specialist, I am not a lawyer, I am not an aviator, so that I can enter into the substance and claim that I will be comprehensive and competent, but once again I will state the reasons why we from the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria will vote against the Law, and they are that the Bulgarian National Assembly was humiliated one time by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, which transferred the ball for the decision of the National Assembly, which was not necessary, as Mr. Tsonev rightly argued. You didn't have to! A direct solution could have solved the issue of purchasing the F-16. On the other hand, we cannot accept in any way that we will have to change the terms of a pre-declared contest to which a number of participants have appeared with a second decision of the National Assembly to change the Decision in the Official Journal, issue 51, and to change the terms of the contest, specific price, deadlines, offset and so on. A number of changes which I cannot accept in any way that they do not damage the independence, sovereignty of the Bulgarian National Assembly and hence of the Bulgarian state. That was humiliating! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Last sentence. From a business point of view, I would like to inform you that in this way, changing the conditions, we slapped, humiliated and two other countries - Italy and Sweden - which at present have provided more than 61,000 jobs in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement? I can't see. Colleagues, I'm going to propose a procedure. I shall put to the vote an extension of the legislative part of the meeting until the agenda is completed. Then we will continue with parliamentary control. They voted 146 MPs: 126, against 7, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. The word is Mr. Ibryamov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u50	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the Law on ratification of the International Treaty on the Purchase of Aircraft F-16. As early as last week in the debate, we clearly and categorically stated that this ratification was a matter of deliberate, clear targeted policy of Bulgaria as a member of NATO, which it has been since 2004. In the Defence Committee we heard the presented motives of the presidential veto by Professor Emilia Drumeva. The main thing that made an impression is that the veto was imposed on the basis of art. 88, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria that the laws are discussed and adopted in two separate votes in two separate sessions and, exceptionally, these two votes can happen in one session that we have violated the Constitution because it was a rule and the exceptions were applied in many, very important laws concerning Bulgaria. Of course, the ratification of such a treaty concerning the national security, the security of Bulgaria, was the one that required this. I leave those motives to one side. In the National Assembly, we looked a year ago, even in a short time,.... five or six months ago, many important laws concerning the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and their law, but we did not hear the President express these same motives and veto the laws voted on then. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u51	Colleagues, please be quiet in this room. It's very loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, as many arguments have been put forward in the speeches and, above all, the argument that, you see, this is a kind of economically disadvantageous transaction, the issue of support or failure to support this ratification is not even an economic problem. The main part of NATO's armaments we all know was produced by the United States. That's an indisputable fact. We don't just buy airplanes, honourable colleagues, I'll repeat myself, we buy peace and national security. There are countries around us that are NATO members, there are those who have said they want to become NATO members, and those who say they have no such intentions. It is with those countries around us and NATO members that we provide and guarantee our national security not so much by the Bulgarian army, but by NATO and the US. In this sense, the discussion about the economic parameters of the transaction is meaningless because national security, honourable Members, is not worth more or less than any other amount. So this debate I find futile. I would like to stress and remind you that the first party to raise the issue of Bulgaria's membership in NATO through its then President Ahmen Dogan is precisely the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We are in this position now and we will be consistent. We are all in this room for NATO membership, or so we say. Ergo should buy such equipment and weapons as NATO has. The spin of the debate in a circle around whether it would be one million, or five million less, or further down, or higher, whether it would be with the extra all the extras is useless. We're buying, I repeat, our national security. This is our position and it will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? I can't see. For your statement, Mr. Milev, come in. Time is extended to all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u54	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the House, Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, Dear Mr. Admiral! Here, many colleagues have tried to reduce the importance of the president's veto, but we from the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) believe that at least this veto has led to this debate that we are having at the moment. Because, honourable Members, it is not serious to talk about such a large amount that we are buying security, whether it is national security. That's not true. It is also not true that with six or eight planes we solve the problem of the Air Force or solve the modernization of the Bulgarian army. There were many untruths here when the first planes would arrive. Apparently, the contracts aren't really read. The first planes stay there. They are for the training of our pilots and come at the end of the year " 2024." I mean, with six or eight planes, we don't solve the Air Force's problem. It is true that we are buying a platform, we are not going to argue whether it is appropriate, but we are not buying multi-purpose, multi-functional aircraft, as the Defence Commission has also found that our logistics bases do not meet the requirements for the storage of the air-to-air missiles. It is for this reason that we have not declared them and at least paid them. We believe that for this large amount that we pay, these missiles can be paid, let them stay in the United States and buy them then or bring them back when we're done with the logistics base. But we cannot say that we are buying national security at any cost and at a high cost, and that we are depriving ourselves of certain benefits or weapons. Because here in this room, there are many people who understand and specifically what this is about. Because the plane isn't multi-purpose, however modern, if it can't be used immediately after it arrives with us. In fact, it's funny to talk about using it as air police and patrolling. It's not serious. It's such a powerful plane to use for such simple purposes. He must ensure combat, not to mention the Land Forces. The other thing is that we are really putting the other two projects behind us because we are entering a debt and financial spiral after years. At the moment we cannot resolve the assembly of the plane, whether it is eight planes, let alone in the future the entire squadron or the other projects of the other types of armed forces. Once again, here not to abuse the BSP for Bulgaria is for the modernization of the Bulgarian army and the armed forces, but with eight planes at such a high price we cannot talk, not to say what we are solving the problems of national security, solve the problems of the Bulgarian army. We will support the president's veto. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u55	Thank you, dear General Milev. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, General Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u56	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Minister and Mr. Vice Admiral! So far, a lot of constructive speeches have also been heard, but populist speeches have also prevailed. I would like to clarify that the National Assembly is dealing with this issue for a good reason, because under the Defence Act, projects of over 100 million. lv. The National Assembly must approve them. Without the sanction of the National Assembly, there is no way to resolve this issue. Second, I'd like to say a few words to you as a pilot, and from my experience as Air Force Commander. Since 2005, I've been in command, and from my predecessor, this process has begun for new multi-target fighters. I have to tell you that almost, aha to reach the choice, the same types of aircraft were presented, but at the last moment it was claimed: I want to find you a detail. Every new time, the prices of the planes were much higher. This means that if this project does not happen now, Bulgaria will then have to pay much, much more money. So you should keep that in mind. Next thing you know, I want to tell you. Here, some people said: "See how dangerous it is, the plane can carry an atomic weapon. I wonder with a rhetorical question: which of the new multi-purpose aircraft does not carry an atomic weapon? He can wear it, but if he wears it and uses it, that's another question. You know that Bulgaria is not an atomic state. In practice, until now there has been no atomic weapon in Bulgaria. Dear colleagues who ask these questions should also know that in the previous years the Bulgarian army had planes that could carry such weapons and the pilots from the Bulgarian Air Force were trained. So there's nothing new under the sun. What they said was that this plane wasn't multi-target because there were no specific types of armaments, that's not true. The aircraft itself, the platform itself, has absolutely all the systems that allow it to perform the full range of battle missions for which it is intended. That there are no high-level weapons at the first stage of purchase... Dear colleagues, ask yourself a question: if this high-profile weapon is purchased now and its warranty time passes until the period comes, the guarantee will be expired. Why do you have to buy it now? So in the future, when the second tranche of airplanes will be purchased, eight aircraft will be executed in order to carry out what is intended as the required number of aircraft for the Air Force, all these things will be provided for in the second package in practice. The other thing I want to explain to you is that almost eight planes will not solve Bulgaria's problems. Of course, come on eight, then, life and health, another eight, but keep in mind that this plane is fully compatible with all the other planes in NATO. There is one, simpler I will say it, in general, the Link-16 radio line with which they are harnessed, and our future aircraft will be able to be managed by AWACS not only from ground command stations, but also from air command stations and receive such information from other NATO aircraft. So what is armed in our neighbours, including Greece, Turkey, Romania, the closer neighbours, and Poland, they have F-16s, and Italy has F-16s, this system will work in full range of all directions where these fighters need to operate. By finishing my speech, I will say the following thing and appeal to you. In practice, we should not only be a consumer of security, but we should generate security. By purchasing these new multi-purpose fighters, we will become a security generator and the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian army and the air force will be many times greater. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u57	Thank you, dear General Simeonov. A line? A line, Mr. Popov? Here you go, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u58	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Member, you have spoken about the nature of this treaty, that it was international and should be ratified by law, as it is indeed in our Constitution and in our Rules. But are you sure, given the treaty itself, that it has these characteristics of an international one and should it be ratified if it is not? Secondly, if this treaty has these characteristics of an international, purely legal aspect is my reply, do you think that it should not be published together with the act of ratification itself, with the Law of ratification and promulgated in the Official Journal? Because its non-publicization, its separation from the Law, there is also a decision of the Constitutional Court, this, an honourable colleague, speaks of hidden diplomacy, secret diplomacy, which we know in the past what catastrophes Bulgaria has led to. And it's forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Another line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, General? General Simeonov for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Popov, honourable colleagues! First of all, I'm not a lawyer. As a pilot, I told you a few things. So getting into legal matters would be a mistake. I have no claim to be. With regard to your question, I can only say that it is unlikely that the other countries that bought F-16 had similar problems, as you say, considering that such a large number of aircraft were produced in total around 4500 and 3000 are still armed in NATO countries. So here now the legal side is of those who have to control. So far, I'll finish up with your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u61	Thank you, dear General Simeonov. Any other comments, Mr. Gazhev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current veto of the Law on ratification is an absolute precedent in the new history of Bulgaria. By the way, the strange thing is that of 58 ratifications that occurred in the President's mandate, 58 were viewed in two readings under this procedure and signed by the President. Fifty-nine for the planes, it's not! I don't know if it's an accident. As for the motives themselves, out of respect for Mrs. Drumeva, I will not dwell on them. I'll just read art. 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which should know this: The text of the treaty cannot be amended under a bill for ratification of an international treaty. Reserves to multilateral contracts can only be made when they are eligible by the contract itself. As for the thesis that the treaty was almost to be published, excuse me, but even in this National Assembly, in each of the mandates of the National Assembly there are different contracts that have a classified part that are not published. Including closed doors in the National Assembly. There are examples in which BSP and you, Mr. Popov, have voted. I can get it out for you. So on this subject, we've had enough. Whether the plane is multi-purpose and its capabilities, I'm not an Air Force expert, and I don't claim to be, so I listen to what the experts say. Experts in this Parliament, by the way, there are many people with many years of experience, both as pilots and as commanders, say: the plane is multipurpose and performs everything Bulgaria needs. Let us hear their arguments and listen to their arguments! After all, they know what they're talking about. As for some of the things that were mentioned during the debates and for hidden expenses and for treaty changes, I say again: here are the terms of the treaty. They are public, they are obvious and they are identical to all countries that buy weapons from the United States. Nothing more, nothing less for Bulgaria, as well as for all other NATO member states. You see, the weapons would be in premises that the Americans would control and guard. Yes, in the end, they provide us with their most advanced technology. It makes sense that they want to make sure that we can keep the secrets in it. You know, and here I mention again, because there are still people in this parliament who have been scouts from the moment we get them, they will be subject to interest from other countries. Of course we have to be able to protect them. We, as a country, must ensure that we can protect them. Infrastructure. Infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, has never been part of the investment cost project to acquire a new aircraft. The hangars and aboveground infrastructure were never part of it, always extra. When we say how much F-16 is going to cost, well, that's what the price is for Rippen. It's no different. When quoting figures from the Slovak report as to how much construction will come out of them, whether the hangars, or their ground infrastructure, it is good to know that they have calculated that there is also one price of both the Gripen and the F-16. But let's not compare their figures, because they still work in euros and prices are a little different than here. As for the high-speed armament, it is appropriate to say that it has been removed from the project's requirements for 2016 by the previous team, not now. The high precision weaponry was not a part of it, it was never at all an air-surface weaponry. He honors and respects the negotiating team that he actually negotiated similar weapons. And as General Stoykov said, if we purchase high-level weapons right now, then, first of all, there is nowhere to store, second of all, there is no polygon where our pilots can train, and in fact we will only have additional expenses from which we are running away. I will immediately give an example of the rockets of the fleet that were purchased. Yeah, tall, long-range, very pretty, but because they couldn't use them, they ended up being paid extra to be cut, not thrown into teaching. Let's be a little careful with the experience Bulgaria has already had in such transactions. As for the veto itself here, I fear, unfortunately, that the Bulgarian army is thus taken hostage with this veto. The presidency wants to know why they're in such a hurry with deadlines. Well, yes, we have until the 31st to ratify and until the 3rd September to transfer the money, but that's not going to happen in one day. There are technical deadlines to be made. But what happens if we delay this process through various other procedures..we veto the Budget Act or the other ratification for industrial cooperation....we risk skipping the deadlines and immediately then going to negotiations and sending us a new offer, we are already back in line, last in line, waiting for the next 66 planes that are ordered and then our country comes. Then we will no longer talk about 2023 or 2024. By the way, those who are for training are produced even much earlier and much earlier will be delivered, but ultimately training on your own plane, it must first be involved in piloting this plane, which becomes American. The last thing I would like to say is: leaving behind the queue and what is the risk of vetoing and at all from the position of the presidency is precisely to delay the process, to distance itself in time, which will lead only to inadequacy for the purchase of such aircraft and to pass negotiations with other countries. Maybe that's the real motive for the veto. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u64	It's me again, unfortunately. Colleague Gajev, because he began to understand and from the right to read you something, colleague: "In case of non-birth or in the absence of any of the other requirements, we are talking about them.................................................................................... It follows from the foregoing that the international treaties adopted, ratified and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria in the course of the operation of art. 5, para. 4 of the Constitution, but unpopular, are not part of the domestic legislation. You can read this, fellow Member, in Decision No 7 of 2 July 1992 on Constitutional Case No 6 of 1992. Meet him, see him and then come out to this stand to say these things. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Gadget? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, as I said, yes, I am not a lawyer. I've studied law enough. After all, I am also a graduate of the Law Faculty of Sofia University. In this regard, I would just like to quote you to check in the Registry of the National Assembly Draft No 702-02-10 And it wasn't a coincidence that more than once there were contracts like this. Or do you want to underestimate the work of all lawyers, dozens of lawyers who have dealt with the preparation of interstate contracts, the entire Legal Directorate of the Foreign Ministry, that they do not understand international law? I doubt it! I guess these people still have the capacity to know what they're doing. And I will say again, the planes according to military expertise, both here and the Ministry of Defense, and the package we acquire is quite enough for the Bulgarian needs so that we can protect our airspace. Let us not approach discussions and the subject of national security and security of the Bulgarian airspace at all, such as just a trade deal. She's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. There is? Excuse me, General Popov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's not final. I've given you a chance like this. Please, guys! [[GERB lines.]] I keep looking at my colleagues so I don't insult them, and that's why I miss my colleagues on the right side of the room. Here you go, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! When it came to motives, it was clearly proven, by the way, that they were absolutely untenable. In my opinion, this is indeed a good move for the President and his administration to write such untenable motives so that the conversation can go to the substance that has been done. Congratulations on that! It's about the contracts. The treaties, as it has become clear, are generic, clear, one for all, many tens and dozens of countries have signed them, under a generally one framework, some conditions, guarantees, how to pay penalties, uniform ones. Here the question is why our President and the Bulgarian Socialist Party disagree with this way of working [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] And they don't agree to negotiate with the U.S. government? Okay, they don't agree, it's normal, but when you don't agree with something in order to stand well, you have to give some options, something good to offer, otherwise it seems very untenable all of your statement. I'm going to offer you a few options, and I'm going to lay them out for you in a nutshell. First option: then let's start a debate, as the President wants us to, to discuss for a long time,................................... and, if we come to some conclusion, start over, if this is the right solution... with a concept of building defense capabilities, analyses, reports, projects for investment costs and so on. Just to remind you, it took us nine years. Let's assume this time we've learned our lesson and it'll be shorter. After the contracts are concluded, delivery time and so on we are going towards the end of the next decade. Option 2: After in-depth reports, analyses, consensus is sought, of course, we come to the conclusion that the government so far has worked well and we continue with the other two offers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We're going to make contracts, of course, after we choose one of the two types. We hope that these contracts will be absolutely unconditional and that the countries concerned will have adopted absolutely all our requirements. Just a slight remark: if we choose..Gripen. from a neutral state, of course, we must impose the requirement that it be able to give us both political and economic support and military technical support when we have to use this weapon at difficult times. By the way, the question has been asked, and other countries have asked, the answers are quite evasive, and that is why no flu has been chosen, because it may be that just when you need it, you don't have the necessary support, and you have a few billion that you're guarding in a shelter to prevent someone from robbing them, not because someone is going to attack them. Nobody's gonna waste their ammunition attacking iron with which you can't perform your duties. Let's say all this goes well. From there on, we're going back to the U.S. government with our little package. Let's make it a big package and get all the equipment we need because only the U.S. gives it. Then we say good afternoon, we're here again! But this time we want you to take back our terms and let Congress vote again, but the way we want it. The third option is the fastest and simplest: we continue with the MiG-29 until they die, while the pilots leave the aviation, because no one builds their bright future on a dying system, and we go to neighbouring countries - Romania, Greece - would it be, would it be, would it be another to protect our airspace at one reasonable cost? Okay. These are possible options. There must be other reasonable options. I asked about these other reasonable options: give them to us, give them to us to discuss them, let us find consensus! Nothing. So please, you have more time, offer us the sensible option, so we know how to vote now. If you do not propose this reasonable option, vote against this absolute, unnecessary and unreasonable veto. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u69	Thank you, dear General Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! My dear General, I address you as a stock officer who does not understand your matter. I am making a reply to you on the following: we cannot accept in any way the suggestion, referring to your words, that the opposition or BSP are against the purchase of American weapons. In no way can BSP be accused of such a position. We are focusing on the violation of the procedures the outrageous and pointless way in which some trade agreement has been reached and on this, unfortunately, that we have gone to the negotiating team, in white pants, to negotiate and to defend our interest. We have no doubt in our strategic partnership with both the NATO Union and the US, let alone any other claims, but this does not mean that we will miss all these handicaps on the way this agreement has been reached. Tell the main problem: no confidence what will happen the next day with regard to the government of GERB. Unfortunately, no confidence in Bulgaria for at least 10 years as a predictable partner. The result is what you have achieved as a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Second line, Mr. Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Admiral! I'm making the line provoked by General Popov's words. Mr. General, I'm going to turn this way. I think you know what honor, dignity means to serve the motherland. I think you haven't forgotten it. It is good that you take responsibility for the decision you will make today, because from now on on on your shoulders and the new ruling coalition GERB, DPS, you will be responsible for what will happen in the coming years in the Bulgarian Army and what it will look like. Trust me, it's not gonna be a very good condition. Once again, we've only been talking about aviation for the last few years, but don't forget the other modernization projects. Time will tell you who was right, but I will ask you: how will you improve the terms of the servicemen? You know how from a few people a serviceman should be equipped. This condition hasn't improved yet. You know how inadequate the package is, almost six thousand people, and not to mention the permanent reserve and to accuse us of being against the Bulgarian army and against modernization, these are complete lies.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Third line? I won't. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u74	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kostadinov! I felt sincere doubts about what the task force has done as a job, the working teams, the people who have negotiated. You accuse them of incompetence or in a more severe case of selling. Let me remind you that the working groups in the Ministry of Defence are mainly working by servicemen who are highly skilled, honest and decent people. You saw the Air Force Commander here. Can I doubt him and his integrity? I think this is absolutely wrong, and I do not think that the platform of the National Assembly can affect the honour of the Bulgarian officer and the Bulgarian serviceman. Dear Mr. Tsonkov, I think, sorry, I have nothing to be ashamed of. I think my entire career has been subject to the idea of working for the Bulgarian Army in all its components. You remember very well when I was Chief of Defense and we discussed two projects for investment costs of the Air Force and the Navy, I had also invited the commander of the Land Forces because I would like to stress that we want to develop all three types of armed forces. This was confirmed by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance. Who's to be confirmed yet? I don't know. As for the conditions of the Bulgarian servicemen, this government, this ruling majority, for the first time perhaps in the last 30 years, raised the remuneration by 20% in two years. I think this is respectable, and I think we're working in the same direction here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u75	Thank you, dear General Popov. In the manner of holding Mr. Jablyanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! What I'm about to say, I hope it doesn't sound humorous to you, but there are other military ranks in this room besides generals. If we accept the protocol to address them in this way, I think we will acquire the appearance of a very specific body. We're all MPs here, there are people with scientific titles and titles. Besides generals, there are colonels. [[Major, Lieutenant]] , lieutenants, retired majors and senior lieutenants, and those who have not served and certainly feel discriminated against. [[Laughter, excitement.]] So I ask you very much to remove at least the militaristic vocabulary from the address to the MPs, to discuss this veto of the President in the spirit of law, the Constitution and the laws, and to remove that pathos characteristic of our National Assembly from other historical times that have not led us to great historical success. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. I accept the remark, but we are still discussing such a military topic, and I was a little deluded by the opportunity to title the generals. I'll take a note. Colleagues, do we have any other comments? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. General Zaprianov, come in. [[Laughter and lines.]] Colleagues, he's not a MP after all. This will be the last general, and in Parliament I will speak to Mr. Mister. Substitute-Minister ATANAS Zapyanov: Thank you, Mrs. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! As a representative of the Ministry of Defence, I would like to say that the proposed contracts, which are proposed for ratifications, are examined and debated, and include a package of capabilities for multi-target aircraft corresponding to the voted Investment Expenditure Project from this National Assembly. I very much ask that you bear this in mind, because lately there has been talk of a full package, about some other abilities. We are a disciplined institution of the Ministry of Defence, we have received an assignment from the National Assembly to offer you contracts to satisfy the abilities of the Investment Expenditure Project. So what we have given as an explanation of these contracts provides those abilities that you have obliged us to provide in the Investment Expenditure Project. Under the procedure for drawing up the draft treaties, the National Assembly's decision to work under the rules of the treaty, a government with a government, inevitably requires us to work with the United States government on the rules of international military sales of this country, there is no way. It has been said that over 100 countries are working under these rules, and in the treaties we have written the Framework Agreement on Rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u78	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u79	Questions have been asked and the specific that I cannot answer, as it is not right to disclose the concessions made by the United States of America under these treaties, but now we are waiting for Congressional Members to approve 60 million. The FMS dollars for this project within these capabilities. That's where you ask the same questions you're asking here. Let us be correct and respect the rules of the state with which we work. If we don't accept them, then we'll fall into the situation we're in. Bulgaria is the only country in NATO that does not have FMS contracts. Therefore, we cannot avail ourselves of certain deferred privileges. Yes, it is a fact, but it is the legislation of the United States. It was said that it was humiliating the Minister of Defence, Deputy Prime Minister, to sign a contract from the Bulgarian side and from the US side to be signed by the US International Sales Agency. They're following their rules. They have no ratification, and we have ratification, and that is why we are with you. The two Parties shall act within the framework of their national laws. Let's respect the other side and not make this a problem. For the US State, translating the amount of the Bulgarian account into the US Ministry of Defence means that the contract has entered into force. It is deeply wrong, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to compare contracts between countries where we do not know the parameters. Believe me, the most delicate part of the negotiations is to put in different quality the allies of the United States of America. This is very wrong and I will say: believe me, the interpretation by our partner of such claims is very disappointing. Slovakia is a worthy NATO member state as much as Bulgaria, and I can tell you that the comparative prices at which the equipment is supplied cannot be different. They're the same as the U.S. Armed Forces buying. The US Air Force is participating in the negotiating team. They're ours, so to speak, an agent who takes care of these contracts, and they're the same people who work with the Slovakian Air Force and the Ministry of Defense. One more question: the question of infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I said that you have bet us on the Investment Expenditure Project with your decision on what abilities to be and there is no infrastructure in this package. There's no way we can debate an unborn Petko now. We are just beginning to work on these issues with our colleagues in the course of the implementation of the treaties. Let us not add expenses that you have not included us as a package. There's no way! This would be a violation by the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defence to expand the package and increase the price beyond what you have put us as a task. In terms of time limits. So far, there have been 62 aircraft declared for production, with our eight 70 F-16 aircraft. There are negotiations with two more countries for 90 more planes and you know that Greece will modernise another 84, I think the plane, that is, we are talking about a battle platform that may exceed 250 planes next year. So the time limits for the conclusion of the contract and delivery are important in order to be included in your voting period and five years after the contract to have full operational capabilities. So these contracts, which we propose to ratify, enable us to have full operational capabilities by 2024. Finally, according to the motives of the Council of Ministers and given the need for confidentiality required by the US Government, it is proposed to the National Assembly that the contracts should not be published in accordance with art. 25, para. 2 of the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thus, no such contract has been published in Slovakia. That's why I told you we couldn't see the details of these contracts to compare them. I think the proposed package capability for multi-purpose aircraft is one of the US country's compromises. Even though we don't buy the full range of weapons on board, the aircraft's weapons control systems have all the software and codes that are unlocked so that we can just buy the weapon, upload it, and we can control it. It also costs money, because if you don't buy anti-ship missiles, the American side doesn't have to install you in board management systems these software solutions and codes, and then when you buy rockets, you'll pay for the onboard installations that are very expensive, believe me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Zaprianov. Colleagues, we're moving on. Please invite the Quaestors to the House until I read the title of the Ratification. I re-vote the Law on the ratification of the International Contract (LOA) BU-D-SAB Airplanes F-16 Block 70 and related Support (F-16 Block 70 Aircraft and Associated Support), International Contract (LOA) BU-D-AAA 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Vote 204 MPs: 128, against 73, abstention 3. With this, the International Contract ratification Act, which I read just now, has been re-approved. [[Applause from GERB.]] The law will be sent to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria within 7 days of its receipt under art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues, we move to the next item on today's agenda: HEARING OF THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOODS AND FEATURES 113 OF THE RULES ON THE ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON THE CRITICAL CONFIGURATION WITH THE AFRICAN SEARCH HEART IN THE COUNTRY. Importers suppose Dragomir Stoynev and Svetla Bachvarova on 25 July 2019. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, given the importance of the topic to be discussed in the coming minutes, and the opportunity for Members of the National Assembly to get acquainted and ask their questions to Minister Taneva about the African plague, I shall make a procedure based on art. 51, para. 2 the next point to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 127 MPs: 125, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, within five minutes to make your presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the entry and spread of African swine fever in the last week has created risks and deepened the country's disease spread crisis. Perhaps you will inform us of the current situation, but are there 21 outbreaks already, or are there more, are there 60,000 or are there respectively more animals that need to be euthanized? I can hardly be correct and accurate enough about what is happening in the country, as the process has been very critical in three areas, and, as I understand it, a state of emergency has been announced at the border for the whole of Greece for the spread of the plague. There's a whole sector at stake. This sector concerns jobs, added value in gross domestic product, as well as ensuring a food stability in the country that provides more than 50% of consumption. All this is about to collapse and industrial production of pigs will be destroyed. Of course, this is not our claim, but a finding by the EU Commissioner for Health and Food Safety. His reproaches are in two directions: firstly, a lack of effective actions.. understand the institutions; and secondly, insufficiently effective work on getting acquainted with the population how to protect themselves from the plague. According to him, this is a brilliant example of how someone was careless, didn't do their job and didn't pay enough attention. Let's remember a little history. In January 2018, an African Plague Strategy was adopted by order of the Minister. In this strategy, in a volume of only four pages, there are many things missing, including coordination between the institutions in dealing with the plague, with which it is understood that it is not enough for only one ministry to be included in it. Two thirds of the activities in this strategy lead and focus on the liquidation of outbreaks with disease, but not on prevention. Furthermore, the possibility of a derogation under Directive 2002 was not taken into account at industrial sites where there are separate sites, not to kill and destroy all animals, but only those affected. Because the pigs complexes are not one building, they are large complexes that can therefore do, at the very least, the necessary to limit this disease. If this strategy had provided for such a measure and such an opportunity, it would probably be much easier to manage the whole process of the eradication of animals now. Furthermore, on 31 August 2018, the first outbreak of plague in Tutracantsi was recorded, but this red light, which had to show that the risk is already dangerous to the country, was also not assessed effectively enough, except for the eradication and disposal of animals. Measures were taken and most of them were related to explaining that we are working, that we are creating conditions for the plague not to spread, but all this was on paper without sufficient action from the institutions. These institutions had to coordinate all their actions and come up with a very strict plan of what was being done at any time in the event of plague outbreaks. There's only one measure I can think of that fence. It is very popular how feral pigs stop, but other real actions have not been taken. There was some funding at the end of the year, which was not even used by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency because of the five million planned to deal with the plague, three and a half million returned to the budget for not being used in any form. I am aware that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests cannot deal alone with this problem, so there is also the National Epizootic Council, which Deputy Prime Minister Donchev heads. Last year, my colleague and I were asking him questions about the complex epizootic environment. I would say that he was a little ridiculously answering our questions with the thesis that there are a bunch of documents, that we do not need a strategy for preventing from any disease, it is enough to know how to deal with the situation that arises. Yeah, but no! If there is no prevention, if there is no strategy and plans for any of the events that may occur, we cannot manage at the last moment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u85	So I hope that we will have the opportunity to hear from you: indeed this red lamp, already extremely glowing, how will it be controlled from now on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u86	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, and above all, I would like to thank you for the invitation to be heard, as the situation is very dynamic and this is an opportunity to present to our country's legislative authority the current situation and the measures to combat African swine fever, and through the TV screen of the population, what is the current situation today. To date, we have registered 21 outbreaks in domestic pigs in six areas of Pleven, Burgas, Vratsa, Ruse, Targovishte and Veliko Tarnovo. Seven of these outbreaks have been identified in the framework of the active supervision of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and the samples taken. Two industrial farms have been hit by just over 57 000 pigs: in the village of Nikolovo, 17 590; and in the village of Brashlyan, 40 000 pigs; and one family farm, type A, in Ruse, with 20 pigs. All other sites with outbreaks are unregistered personal holdings. In feral pigs we have 20 cases of established African swine fever in the regions of Silistra, Dobrich, Pleven, Varna, Vratsa, Ruse, Targovishte and Montana. A few more of these were found yesterday in the process of research. We expect, of course, samples from two more cases in domestic pigs. in the case of a Member State or part of the territory of a Member State or part of the territory of a Member State or part of the territory of a Member State or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country, the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country, the territory of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country referred to in part of the territory of the territory of the territory of a third country or part of the territory of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country referred to in part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a territory of a territory of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a territory of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part of a third country or part Within the scope of these measures, I would like to confirm that, yes, today, the Greek Ministry of Agriculture has introduced additional restrictive measures to protect the spread of African swine fever, concerning all food control services, as well as to monitor with caution and monitoring all border crossing points on the occasion of the possibility of transport of food, enhanced control for the areas close to the border with Bulgaria. It is absolutely forbidden to import pork from Bulgaria to Greece. Checks on the flow of tourists or people passing will be permanent. The Agricultural Ministry in Athens informs us that: with the Bulgarian authorities, together with the European Commission's emergency team, we are implementing all measures to locate plague outbreaks. What is the main risk and danger of spreading the plague? These are private holdings, unregistered pig sites where they are hiding and there are no bio-security measures. Where animals are killed, two methods approved in the European Union and the legislation of the OIE shall be used by means of electricity or electric pliers using high concentration of carbon dioxide in the form of dry ice. The foam shall be placed above to seal and assist disinfection. The method is completely humane. The burial to be carried out after killing shall be carried out under Ordinance No 22 on the conditions and procedures for the disposal of animal by-products, the conditions laid down. For this purpose, they are disposed of on a certain site by a commission composed of the local authorities, the municipality, the ODBH, the Regional Inspectorate of Conservation, the RIOCOS, the RIEW and the Basein's Water Management Directorate. The Commission shall be acting on a permanent basis and shall be appointed by order of the mayor of the municipality concerned. The designation of the territories shall take into account all requirements clearly defined in the Ordinance and the legislation in force in the field of ecology in order to avoid foundation of the environment. I mean, the burial sites had to be set up and set up with the plans that should have been on all the sites. Where the procedure for determining them is not in accordance with the appropriate order, the approved by all services is now being carried out at the site of the village of Brashlen, where I was informed this morning that a solution has been found to meet all the legislative and legal requirements in order to prevent any risk. In terms of funding. I would like to say that of the government's allocated funds for 2018, by a decree of the Council of Ministers of 4 million. 476 thousand. 870 BGN, Professor Bachvarova, have been spent in activities of more than 12, detailed on the occasion of the taking of preventive measures against African swine fever, including information campaign, increased control of border crossing points, purchase of disinfectants for these points, freezers and logistical support of the Regional Directorates for Food Safety in relation to sampling, storage, transport to laboratories. Of course, in this amount is also part of the amount for the construction and the partition facility which was built at the border. For 2019 Before nearly three meetings, the government further granted 3.7 million. lv. for detailed measures in this direction. For support from the European Union and co-financing. This is determined by a grant decision of the European Commission. The co-financing rate is between 50% and 100% and, according to the type of measures applied, the approval of the application is also according to the gross domestic product of the Member State. If it is smaller than the average, 75% is usually applied. For the practice. In 2015, when we had modulatory dermatitis, we did a very successful job, something more than that, then the veterinary authorities created a European map to combat this disease. Between 75% and 100% of the refinancing costs presented were co-financed. In conclusion, I mean, I thought I was limited in time, then I would answer other questions, something that is extremely important to know about this disease is extremely rapidly spreading, highly contagious. What you have put in your request for a derogation to kill only the affected animals on farms is absolutely not applicable to African swine fever. I can give you an example with the village of Brashlen, where every night several dozen pigs die of the disease, without the possibility of division into the halls. Such a derogation is inadmissible for African swine fever. But for the consumer, this disease can not harm the safety of the food of what it consumes from the store network. Control of the movement of meat to the sites for sale has been strengthened by the slaughterhouse and the lot of animals that go for slaughter. There's absolute control! This disease is not dangerous for the user. It is an economic disease with really huge economic risks and losses for the sector. Yes, in Bulgaria we have an extremely well developed pig farming sector. According to statistics for 2018, the gross domestic production of the sector is around 250 million. BGN, annual sales are just below 600 million. lv. with VAT and the total number of pigs again according to statistics is nearly 600,000 pigs in registered establishments. In economic terms, the risk is extremely severe for farms that have developed industrial production. For the consumer, this risk does not exist particularly, given that access to food must be controlled by the sites or registered sites concerned. Outside of this, even with a virus, with the corresponding heat treatment..at least 30 minutes at 70 degrees, the consumption is absolutely safe. With regard to other measures, I would also like to say a few data. Yes, African swine fever is found in 23 countries on three continents. The concentration of outbreaks and the spread of the disease is the strongest in Romania. All methods and measures that Bulgaria applies are measures that are consistent and subject to control by the European Commission according to the EFSA roadmap to combat this disease and are carried out in a way that has been carried out in countries with similar concentration of the disease. I can say that, in countries such as Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Hungary, only in feral pigs, the method of killing is also death. That is to say, this is a standard procedure most widely applied in the other countries concerned - Member States of the European Union - and they are 13 at the moment. Certain areas such as Sardinia have been declared endemic to African swine fever. I think these were the main questions that you put in your exhibition. I can also provide additional information that you can ask me with the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u88	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleagues, we're moving on to questions. A question from the political party GERB's parliamentary group. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Bellova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u89	Dear Minister, as you mentioned, African swine fever has spread to 23 countries on the territory of three continents. You have explained that much of the measures that other countries have taken to reduce the damage of African plague have also been taken in our country. I ask for more specifics: since you are a minister, what measures have you taken to curb the disease and are there others to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Belova. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Belova, as has already become clear from the exhibition, we have registered about an equal number of outbreaks of domestic pigs and cases of wild boars. Currently, the measures I have already presented in a three-km and ten-mile zone are coordinated by the regional epizootic committees, which are chaired by the regional governors or by a regional deputy governor. It includes representatives of several ministries and the biggest logistical support we receive from the Ministry of Interior. I am taking this opportunity to thank Minister Marinov that urgency is extremely important in such diseases the time we deal with the consequences. From the Ministry of Interior we have always received what was needed by the authorities in the regions concerned. Their representative is also involved, forest farms. Two weeks ago, we recruited the Military Police to back up and, above all, restrict control between infected zones and clean zones. The main problem that we faced at the beginning, as the situation is dynamic and developing, is the initial misunderstanding of people what African swine fever is and what the consequences of it can be. To that end, three weeks ago, we formed teams from the Risk Assessment Centre. I've asked universities with veterinary faculties, including the Thracian University veterinary department, for help from their profiled specialists, researchers in this field. We formed teams, all in different areas of Northern Bulgaria in order to support the implementation of all measures, especially in the direction of clarification of the disease. I can say that in most of the risk zones, in practice, in areas where there are already outbreaks, we already have more understanding than at the beginning. We also did the same with forest farms, with the directors of state forest enterprises and the presidents of hunting associations. Here the debate has undergone a different development given the stage of the disease we are in. We asked the European Commission and we were visited by two experts: one of them is a domestic pig specialist, the other one is a wild boar specialist. We have complied with all their recommendations, which they made after a two-day tour in Ruse, Pleven, up in Northern Bulgaria. With regard to domestic pigs, pigs, measures and implementation, we have received confirmation of everything we do. With regard to the wild boar, they had different recommendations for new measures and changes to the existing ones, on which, since last night ended this communication with them, I invited again the Presidents of the hunting associations to inform us of what we need to do. In all countries where there is an ACH (African swine fever) that fight outbreaks, the problems are usually very similar. One of the most important things is the understanding and awareness of everyone who is part of this social relationship, of the disease, of its spread and of its eradication. With regard to the wild boar, we can only do this together with the hunting local gangs they had a meeting on site and with them. At the present time, the search for dead wild boar should take place in respect of the first and most important measure already recorded cases and then for their drastic disposal in areas outside the infected areas defined as 200 square kilometers of territory in the case of a dead wild boar found. That's what we've been communicating with him for the last two days, and last night, we've also sent out a corresponding draft of changes to the guidelines we're going to present. We continue there, given the dynamic situation, and with the information and training of hunting parties in terms of sampling. It is an extremely difficult situation, but the understanding of society, of people, of what we should do consciously and not take into account that we have done so is extremely important for success in this battle. Different countries have different successes. The best example in the European Union is the Czech Republic, the worst example at the moment is [[BSP's line for Bulgaria]] Romania. If you knew the size, you wouldn't even say it, because in many other countries there are many more outbreaks than in Bulgaria at the moment. In practice, we are in second or third place in the number of outbreaks. Romania is already close to 1600 outbreaks. For last year alone, the official figures are for 300,000 killed pigs, for this one there are no such official figures. I said the countries with outbreaks, I can repeat them to you. Here, to respond to the lines on the left side of the hall, I can say the number of outbreaks in domestic pigs. Romania s 1645, on July 25th in Bulgaria are 21 for such a difference we are talking about! When we talk, we need to talk numbers and data. Poland.. 241 outbreaks only in domestic pigs. Lithuania - 131 outbreaks only in domestic pigs. Latvia - 64 outbreaks only in domestic pigs. In this sense, we need to understand what the disease is and how it can be stopped. I am very grateful to the scientific community for the fact that, realizing public responsibility, they have supported us in the explanatory campaign for three weeks are on the ground for explanations without even asking for remuneration. We have provided logistics regarding their residence in different places. The battle goes on and on about this disease for a very long time. Only the adequacy of the measures, and especially their application with awareness of how they should be implemented, is the key to success in dealing with the disease.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. A question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, I don't want to get into the subject of how animals are killed, although this is quite worrying about the human point of view. I'll draw attention to the subject of burial. You mentioned some of this earlier, but the issue is very disturbing and unclear so far. In connection with the burial and disposal sites of these animals, there is still a lot of speculation. What do I mean? There have been several theories about the terrain on Brashlen's territory so far. They were land on the territory of the pig complex, they were land outside the territory, they were terrains that were not approved by the Swimming Directorate. As of today, it is heard of a new terrain, perhaps a former breeder or fisherman, whether it is true or not, has not yet been specifically mentioned. That is precisely the question: how will the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency guarantee that if the land is really outside the pig complex that the transport will not spread this disease from the animals killed? Is the inability to spread after the burial of these animals by predators, raptors and other rodents? After all, we're talking hundreds, thousands of tons of meat. We say that there is no burial on this scale, except in Bulgaria or Romania, as you have quoted for other countries. According to data submitted by the Risk Assessment Centre, the virus can remain in sausages for 50 days, in frozen meat, 1000 days, 300 days in dried meat, 160 days in soil and 180 days in ponds. How does the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency guarantee that the disease will not be able to reach through groundwater [[the President signals that time has run out]] To return to us through these waters? I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Brashlen, as we know, is in a protected area and is in a water supply zone. In the area of these pigs complexes, in general on the territory around the Danube, the groundwater are at a very high level. During the last sentence, compensation is also extremely important. You mentioned some sums that we are aware of are completely insufficient. The persons concerned because of the animals being killed already amount to more than Here, apart from the two pigs complexes...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u95	...there are already reports of a third major in Ruse and a fourth...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u96	Finish the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u97	What will be the benefits of these individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u98	You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Regarding the first part of the question of burial. It is not true that in Bulgaria are the largest quantities at present. I have already defined several countries which have an intensity of outbreaks of domestic pigs, not only Romania, which have used the same method of using Poland, Lithuania. That is to say, this is the usual method in the outbreaks of the type of domestic swine for the sake of volume. In this sense, we apply: one that is authorised according to the EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) method - safe; secondly, that is the practice of the other Member States of the European Union, where the outbreaks in domestic pigs have been intense and are the outbreaks in domestic pigs. Secondly, as regards the safety of the terrain, I explicitly said that the terrain is defined according to a regulation, with a commission, with all the authorities.............................................................................................................................................................. We cannot in any case talk about terrains that are in water supply areas that would be a subsequent risk. This was also the reason for the delay in setting the site in Brashlen.... precisely because of the different areas there. The one who, before entering the National Assembly, reported to me that he was designated is in coordination with all environmental services, so that we do not allow such a risk. How do you guarantee BABBH? With the way this burial takes place, with the disinfection, with the disinfection on top, with the pouring, with the isolation for a certain period of the place on top and its subsequent new disinfection. These are rules, measures that apply not only in our country but also in other Member States where African swine fever is a few years before us. This is a practice that has already been tested. This is what said, by the way, and the expert of the two-day visit. To go back to Professor Bachvarova, if she was listening to Commissioner Andrewkitis today, he explicitly pointed out that animals should be killed. With regard to the request, such a derogation in this situation of the HRS in industrial pigs is impossible in practice. I just thought of it now and I'm going back to the answer to the question. As regards the benefits, of course, the Bulgarian swine complexes will receive benefits, in which their animals are currently being killed in an absolutely humane way. I explained explicitly in my first answers that this is done either with electric pliers.. depending on the volume of the pig complex, or with carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide option, sealing, in order not to leak this gas, is either with tarpaulins in cars or in foam rooms. The result is the same as the one with foam is less risky, as there is no risk for people who carry out this process. But the killing is carbon dioxide. I specifically repeated that. To get back to the benefits. For each registered animal, a pig complex that has implemented all the biosecurity measures will be compensated within the relevant time limit under the European Regulation after the completion of the killing process of the infected animals, at market price, under an existing regulation for the determination of that market price and within the relevant deadlines. As I said, for these measures the expert on domestic pigs was also here, the Commission has approved everything. We have had such practice, including in our previous term, and the Commission, in a very short period, has reimbursed us between 75 and 100% of the amount paid according to the type of measure in question. There is no topic in this direction, so they are informed and know it from the pigs' complexes themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u100	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, when the car turns around, there are many roads. If we fail to eradicate this disease, it will be able to eradicate the entire pig business. Since colleagues on the left have been practicing what this disease means and what it does not mean, and have they seen hundreds of thousands of tons of meat being destroyed at all, I would like to ask you in one other aspect: will you ask for additional funds in the Ministry's budget so that we can assist the activities of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, to assist the Ministry itself, because the eradication of this disease does not last for several days or months, and it will take years if we do not, God forbid, we allow it to go down and move south of the Balkan Mountain? Ladies and gentlemen, we are all to blame for this situation........ how much money was allocated to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for Samples when the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is voted. There's no more than 18 grand there for the whole country. lv. per month for samples. And we cannot now ask these people to do their work qualitatively, because they were being practiced and are continuing to exercise on the work of ordinary veterinarians who are currently inside this outbreak! None of you have seen what this is about. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I have had the opportunity to attend such events unwittingly, and I must tell you that this is a mind-blowing picture!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov, for the question. My fellow Members, as I have said, so far, with a special decree of the Council of Ministers on African swine fever and on measures to combat the HRS, the government has granted 3.7 million. lv. Before I came to the National Assembly, I was with the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister. The sector has all the support from the cabinet, the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister to provide the necessary funds for the benefits and to combat the plague. I wouldn't allow myself to say it if I didn't, from this tribune and in front of all Bulgarian citizens. So far, funding with regard to the needs of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has been provided by the government. The truth is that this is very hard work, as Mr. Apostolov said, there are replacements below, from southern Bulgaria, from the veterinary authorities, it is very laborious, especially with the resistance of people in the settlements. People really feel tired. I informed you there we have sent the relevant representatives of the scientific community, third week in the areas, in order to explain the campaign. Yes, it's a very difficult process. Yes, the disease is long and we must prepare ourselves for this, knowing enough about this disease and realizing very clearly how everyone, within the scope of all measures, must fulfil their obligations as a public responsibility to society, people and the state. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u104	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Azvezda, you have the floor of a question from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! I'll start with the paraphrase of something that on the left hand side knows it very well. A ghost roams Europe. It's the ghost of African plague. And while this ghost roamed for two years in Europe and we knew very well that it would come to Bulgaria anyway, neither helped the butaphor fence on the land border between Bulgaria and Romania, nor helped the crunches along the border with control over the movement of people, meats, cargo, animals and so on. Unfortunately, the epidemic, the infection in Bulgaria is a fact. In just two weeks, the outbreaks are twenty-one. The decisions that we observe from the government these days are untimely, chaotic, uncoordinated, relevant, relevant in the few of them correct solutions at the high level, at the low level, at the level of regional epizootic committees are so distorted that they have no effect. The institutions in the country did not work in a crisis situation. The charge is not only to the Ministry of Agriculture here at the Ministry of Defence, the Internal Affairs and the whole country at all. Madam Minister, we must not transfer the state's responsibilities to the behaviour of the people...........and the mosquitoes and ticks are almost to blame for the spread of the disease. My question to you is this. [[the President signals that time has run out]] : Once there is the full cooperation of the Ministry of Finance, will the Bulgarian government take the responsibility to compensate all slaughtered pigs from the backyard?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u106	Thank you, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u107	My personal opinion is that the disease is spread through the pigs from a backyard that are not compensated, and our livestockmen carry them from one village to the other. This morning's outbreaks are secondary to the first in Pleven and in Tarnovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u108	Thank you. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Abase, in no case do I transfer responsibility to anyone. The responsibility for how informed the public is, how informed it is also of the state, so there is no way to talk about the transfer of responsibility and the efforts in this direction continue very intensively. I have repeatedly announced, with the support of the scientific community, for which I thank you. With regard to the benefits and the question you raise, for type of personal holdings,................................................................................................................. More than that! Even at the beginning, when such cases of type of domestic swine have been identified in the private holding, we also have a general decision voted on by the Management Board of the State Fund for Agriculture for support. As I said, however, the process of spreading this disease is very active. By the way, July, August and somewhat September is the peak in principle of this disease as a manifestation in the final phase. Yes, it is normal to expect that there will be new outbreaks at this time, to date. We're looking at two more samples. For good, at the moment one is a type of backyard. When they come out, we will officially announce them and give the corresponding orders. With the experts from the Commission, we commented on this issue in the light of the fact that the same topic of personal holdings is being put in all the countries of Eastern Europe. At present, such support cannot be financed and approved by the European authorities on the ground that the holdings are unregistered as communication is under way for this disease at European Union level, they said they would place the issue in the Commission with regard to the European Union road map of this disease if there is, according to the decision in which direction it is going, we will announce a relevant version of support. The truth is that the non-registered personal holding is not registered because there are no relevant biosecurity measures is one of the main sources of spread of the disease. In both major pigs complexes, where the infection was detected, since we are conducting active communication, even their staff living in these villages, said that for at least two years they have motivated him not to have domestic pigs in their private courtyards to rule out this hypothesis as likely to infect the pigs complexes. However, unfortunately, the disease has entered these major complexes, but it is a very acute viral disease, it has been stepping on a long time in the European Union, following a line and is now with us. At the moment when there is clarity about the Commission's attitude on this subject, we will also announce our decision. We are clearly aware that this is a major problem for distribution. People need to understand this and for a certain period not to have domestic pigs in private holdings. And what is possible, of course, also complies with the relevant European rules, we will do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u110	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Rhodolists. You have the floor, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Like all colleagues, and you yourself said, this is a disaster Bulgaria has to deal with. Society is really sensitive on this subject, not only society, but also our business. I don't suppose there's anyone better aware of the complexity of the situation than you. Perhaps more than 10% of pigs grown in Bulgarian pigs are struck. A disaster has already been declared in several areas. The European Commission even brought Bulgaria into the more dangerous third zone of four possible because of the spread of HRS. We know that Spain has been fighting this disease for many years and can't handle it. Your colleagues have asked you enough questions about what measures you are taking right now and what we should expect from now on. I would rather stress the issue which you yourself commented on yesterday in the media that in your opinion negligence has been committed and insufficient measures have not been taken to prevent the spread of HRS in Bulgaria. It seems to be neglected in some way and the whole complexity of the situation has not been realized. My question to you is: if you really believe that negligence has been committed, who do you hold responsible for this, and what responsibility will he bear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Taskova, MPs! What do I mean? I said the measures were taken according to the documents that Professor Bachvarova quoted as early as 2018. I specifically mentioned all activities that the government has exclusively financed for these prevention measures, such as training campaigns, control of border crossing points, additional equipment of veterinary services. All such measures are certainly taken in other Member States of the European Union, they are the same, they cannot be radically different in individual countries, and the HRS, the disease, has re-entered them. When some measures are applied as a complex of measures with many services, as we are at the moment, through the regional epizootic committees, there is always, again, a dose of exhaustion. The situation is extremely difficult for people on the ground. Sometimes someone can admit negligence. I can give an example of the case in Zidarovo. It was good that there was only one there, so far, in terms of how all functions were performed. This was also an occasion, as well as as prevention from other similar ones, together with the Ministry of Interior, we are setting up here a central, control committee that will visit the terrain in the event of an outbreak and the implementation of measures following outbreaks, how the measures are implemented by rules. That's what I meant. We must be extremely strict and self-conscious, which will motivate us on our own how to implement these measures. I say again, so for this disease one of the main prevention measures is training campaigns - what is HRS and how we can protect ourselves from it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u114	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the political party GERB's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it has become clear from your statement that 21 outbreaks of African swine fever have been announced to date, including two industrial farms and one family farm in Ruse district. With the establishment of each outbreak, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency together with the local and state authorities are working to control the situation. In this regard, it is my question to you. Would you please brief us on how the state will control the situation and limit the spread of African swine fever? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Raykov, Members of the National Assembly! I have already listed all the measures we apply in relation to African swine fever in Bulgaria. Where there have been outbreaks, we continue with prevention. We have no other option but to make efforts, to have a public responsibility to everyone, to apply the measures with all their severity to stop the disease and limit the damage. We have no other way out. Outside of the measures that I have declared in detail, on what legal basis they originate, how they are applied as practices I can in addition to saying that we will continue much further the prevention measures in areas which are currently not declared risky and are not infected because there is no case declared.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What will this prevention include besides, as I have already said, the enhanced training campaign? We will set up an organisation for registered pigs complexes that are outside these areas, for some buffer zones where some measures will be taken earlier to prevent them. We will try to convince people that they should not have personal holdings that are not registered in the services, because non-registered means that they do not meet the conditions of the Law, that is to say they do not have measures for safety. We'll take these pre-emptive measures earlier in an attempt to overtake the spread of the virus. And I say again, above all, the training of the people themselves in these areas is what African swine fever is. We rely very much on the local authorities, although it is facing elections in the autumn, and this is certainly not the most pleasant duty of the mayor of the locality to describe the personal holdings without measures for safety and unregistered in the village. This is our public responsibility and we must not give up on this. With regard to the wild boar, as I have already explained after the recommendations we have received from the Commission, we will be going on an intensive search in the risk zones of dead wild boars as of today, following the training of the companions, we have also informed them of a drastic landfill with the construction of emergency traps for the wild boar.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u118	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, before I ask a question, let me still draw your attention to and draw your attention to Directive 60 of 2002 on derogations. 6. Here, I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u120	I know it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u121	However, pay attention. Dear Minister, the rapid development and spread of African swine fever in almost all areas of Northern Bulgaria in recent weeks requires the following conclusion that this is not only from the nature of the disease itself, but also from the existence of organisational structural deficiencies. In confirmation of this, I can give an example of the rapid spread and coverage of the whole country a few years ago of the diseases.......................................in bovine ruminants,................................. We believe that the removal of veterinary sites, insufficient collateralisation with veterinarians and specialists in the regional structures of the Food Agency, the division of public and private practitioners, aggravated administrative and bureaucratic procedures, the low pay for the work of veterinarians and specialists, public and private practitioners, the state and the number of laboratories, are part of the problem that led to this state of animal health. In the recent past, the volume and scale of livestock farming in Bulgaria was much more than what it is now. There was then a very good structure and organization of veterinary activities for exactly this purpose for the use and spread of infectious diseases in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And it was a benchmark for many European countries. In this regard, we would like to ask you the following question: do you intend to undertake structural, organisational changes in order to prevent further penetration and the rapid spread of animal diseases within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. You have the floor for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u123	I'll be brief in my answer. Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs! Yes, in the years back, time is such that our geographical position is such that the episootic situation is very difficult. At different times we have suffered from a different type of shortage of human resources, of other resources, anyway, in the current practice it has been proven that the veterinary services of Bulgaria, regardless of which government has managed, have dealt with the situation. I set an example from the previous term on lumpy skin disease. Unfortunately, no vaccine or treatment has been found in African swine fever so far. Science continues to work in this direction. As a matter of fact, we should note that, including Bulgarians, are working globally on the subject of the detection of a vaccine for African swine fever, but we are not, and we should continue with these measures at present. Undoubtedly, after the end of everyday life, we will do an analysis of where the gaps are and how we can improve coordination, activities and actions in order to be faster in implementing measures, in taking measures and in prevention. Wherever necessary, I guarantee you that we will take organizational and personnel changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. Another question is Mr. Sabanov on behalf of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I was going to ask a question about the mobile incinerators and the amounts they receive. But at the end of the day, 30 million is for business. Mobile incinerators can be moved to the areas and should pay attention and be directed to these distressing areas where we are currently wondering how to bury the corpses. My question will be another, and it is related to the ongoing speculation about African swine fever to grain producers.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u126	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u127	I know it's bullshit. It is nice here from this tribune to say that there is no way to prohibit exports, or no infection can be carried from wheat, sunflower or corn that are harvested in such areas. Perhaps between 20 and 30 farmers, who are grain producers, have reported that they go to them and say to them, "Sell now, so that the export is not then banned because of the African plague." That's why I want you to say it from this tribune to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u128	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u129	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Sabanov, MPs! First of all, in the first part of the issue of incinerators, we with the pig industry, they are organized in two associations and I think they are a team of people with whom we are in constant communication. The veterinary Bulgarian authorities, the European experts, are all adamant that any other way of destroying the pigs with African plague would be a risk of spreading the disease. In this sense, the only option that would limit the subsequent risks is the current method that has been applied. This is the firm opinion of all parties. I would like to make this most responsible, as this topic is a subject, of course, of public discussion. Regarding the subject of the grain. Yesterday night, I got some kind of speech from someone who was going to be mayor now. Colleagues, it's just that any exercise on this subject, which is unruly on knowledge, using the current situation, must be clearly aware of the risks to this. This does not rest on any logic, real situation, legislation, risk of infection, anything. This is a manipulative speech, and one who speaks in this sense, given the characteristic of our agriculture, believe me, this is a national betrayal. [[Applause from GERB.]] There's been African swine fever in Ruse for 12 years. The main country that sets the prices on the cereals markets of Ukraine is African swine fever, a major cereal exporter. Well, how did anyone just think it would matter to us? That's unacceptable talking. I'm sorry that producers are already asking that question. No, there's no danger at all. Countries with a much higher intensity of African swine fever are major grain carriers in Europe and the world This is the truth beyond all, of course, veterinary rules, that there is no danger of this, including the grains that are reaping in these regions. There are requirements for ageing and moisture of the grain. There is a science that has said this virus in what conditions and how long it lives, and these days are at appropriate humidity, at the humidity of the grain, which is standard, we talk about hours, even at the greatest risk. I strongly state: there is no such danger, there is nothing to rest on, there is no such practice, there is no such case for which she has been a country with African swine fever since 12 years ago, which has not yet eradicated it, there is no such prohibition. On the contrary, some of the countries with African swine fever are one of the largest grain merchants in the world. That should be clear. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u130	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. You have the floor, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my second question will be more specific. It is related to the second powerfully active disease spread factor, except for pigs in the backyard, these are the wild pigs in the forests. The method you have chosen to reduce the population of wild pigs in the affected perimeter through the hunting groups will not work. Hunting parties cannot reduce the population for several reasons. First of all, there's no reasonable thinking hunter who enters this time of year to hunt in the woods. Secondly, we cannot oblige the hunting parties with one hand to walk with a rifle and bullets, in their other hand with a pickaxe, shovel and a sack of chlorine lime to hunt. Third, hunting parties have no way of controlling them with what shoes they enter, how they disinfect, how they come out and whether they carry the disease more or reduce the population. In this order of thought, does the government mean the idea that the reduction of the population of wild pigs in the forests should be done by engaging the army and gendarmerie, as is done in the Czech Republic and Spain. We don't need to find the hot water, just learn from their experience, where they've been in our position, and to date the disease has been contained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Abase, MPs! Yeah, the other main source of the disease is the wild boar. I explained that, following the visit of the expert from the Commission, who is a specialist in wild boar, we are discussing certain changes in measures today with the hunting associations and directors of forestry. As I have already announced, the first and most important will be the search for dead wild boars in areas of 200 square meters. km around outbreaks that have been made at the moment. This is the EFSA Road map, by the way. This search will take place with foresters and hunting parties. There won't be any hunting just searching. At least two or three times a week and at least one month should not be found dead wild boar to say that the area is not infected. Hunting is not allowed here, access to anyone is not allowed with dogs. Again, this is a EFSA roadmap. Why would we invite only the local hunting parties? This is a recommendation from the Commission. From the practice that she has with the HRS for several years now since she entered the European Union, the local gangs best know the terrain and believe that the search would become the most effective with the hunting groups, and we must certainly encourage them to find a dead wild boar. It's a recommendation. In the course of implementing the measures, we ourselves, together with you and local society, see where the effect of the measures concerned is not implemented or not achieved and make changes. They were adamant that hunters, hunting parties should be trained. From each local hunting party there should be between two and three trained piercers from the corpse of a wild boar. There are trainings made because they take samples. Here you are all hunters and I talk about hunting, a little bit certainly you would underestimate the talk on the topic of hunting in detail, but as a measure of this at the moment we must urgently and immediately emphasize. After the release of the area, the trap and the selection of hunting, for the purpose of drastic depopulation. Outside those 200 square feet. km of zones, now we have 20 outbreaks of wild boar. Each will be made, surrounded by this 200 square meters. It's a half-mile zone. Outside this area, uninfected for a wild boar. There, in urgent order, we must set traps, the foresters must build traps and, at present, the landfill to do it with traps and selection hunting, which is currently, although permitted, undoubtedly having a very low success rate. But these are the first measures. From there on after the search, after the current epizootic setting of wild boar outbreaks, we will make subsequent decisions. It's on the EFSA roadmap. The practice of the previous countries has been most successful with the local hunting groups for the landfill and for finding dead pigs, which we need to do to declare the respective areas clean.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u133	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A question from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian patriots. You have the floor, Mrs. Taskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, all MPs are aware that this hearing is not only to understand what measures you are taking to limit the severe economic consequences of the HRS, but also to understand what measures you are taking to prevent an environmental disaster. Therefore, we believe that you should inform us about the measures and actions that the Ministry of Agriculture has obviously not taken at the moment of the first case of HRS in Bulgaria. Are you developing these now? What do I mean? The first indication of HCC in Bulgaria was last year in Northern Bulgaria. No concerted sites were then designated for burial with the Swimming Directorate of the Ministry of Environment and Water. Like I said, this never happened. To date, there are so many things and the rapid expansion of the disease, we all hope that it can be limited, but the fact is that a new outbreak comes out every day. Are there certain terrains like this? In fact, are you working towards common work with the Ministry of Environment and Water precisely to prevent environmental catastrophe in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u136	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Taskova, MPs! Yeah, you're right, and I've announced it in previous exhibitions that every registered site had for a year and a half, and there's a contingent with plans to prevent HRS, in which a plan should be set and a site to bury in cases of HRS. Such plans have all the objects. They must be controlled by BABBH and there must be playgrounds. What happens in cases now? Yes, there is a designated site, this site is defined by Ordinance No 22 with the mayor of the locality, but it turned out, for example, in Brashlen, that it was not coherent in the appropriate order with RIOKOSE, RIEW and Swimming Directorate, which delayed the process by two days. In this sense, in direct terms, yes, this was a failure in terms of how the site was designated. As you can see, there is no compromise in the implementation of the measures, and without this coordination we are not going through. To colleagues, of course, who should have established this quite earlier, I said again, we will take appropriate organisational measures, but these sites must be pre-defined in this order, under this regulation with the local authorities and with all the Ministry of Environment services, the most appropriate terrain in this case. These terrains are a contingent of plans. They have them, only in this particular case it turned out that they were not consistent with the environmental services, so another terrain was chosen. In this sense, I say again, we will continue with stronger and enhanced preventive measures in clean areas. Everything will be checked in detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. Attitude on behalf of the political party GERB parliamentary group you have the floor, Mrs. Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u138	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! From today's hearing of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, it has become clear that all points of support distributed in the media in the last few days are completely meaningless. We started first on the subject of extermination. Well, it became clear and the EU Health Commissioner told us that the burial is the only possible way in our situation. Then, we went through the welfare and method of killing animals. It has again become clear that all European and national requirements are respected and there is no other way. There have been attempts to involve industrial producers in this situation. After they didn't take the action of the people trying to get them out, to explain how they didn't take adequate measures, we turned to the grain producers. My colleague Sabanov is right that since yesterday there are doubts among the grain producers that this will reflect on the grain market, will reflect on exports, the price will collapse and this will lead to a national catastrophe. Well, it became clear that it wasn't either. Another supporting point, which you and Mrs. Sabanov missed, was that the combined feed was not saved. I'm not a technologist, but from conversations with technologists, I understand that combined feed has no way of spreading this infection, because the granulated temperature is about 70 degrees. Thank you, Madam Minister, for the specific answers and I hope that after the end of today's meeting no other point of reference will appear; we will not seek to plant an even greater fear among the population; even greater concerns among industrial producers, and we will all join together and work so that this virus, this disease, this disease, the African swine fever, does not lead to a national catastrophe and the destruction of the pig farming sector completely. I call on you to continue very actively with the information campaigns you launched a few weeks ago. My personal observation is that it has a very big effect. I believe that here, as you said, the mayors of settlements, where animals are kept in so-called backyards, should be involved much more actively, and that they should really go from house to house and explain to these owners the danger that they have, and that they should take all the action that you have decreed to stop this spread of African plague. To the opposition colleagues. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, I call on you, because there are also great specialists in the opposition who are much better acquainted with I don't think we're too late yet. The ministry didn't bend the answers and said there were gaps, but we have a chance to make up for the passes and prevent a national disaster. Thank you again. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u139	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Attitudes from the parliamentary group of BSP you have the floor, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Taneva, in the questions you have been asked, and in the answers you have given, I have seen a high dose of speculation with information and some honest untruths. But what scares me the most is that I feel like you're waking up from some kind of dream because you're talking about prevention. Two or three years ago, the hunters in Bulgaria began to monitor how this plague approaches our border and with colleagues we have repeatedly alerted through parliamentary control and the Commission that this disease is coming towards us. That was the time for prevention! Talking about prevention is totally ridiculous right now! To say that for three weeks you've been assessing the risks is absurd! The risks were assessed two years ago. There are many other things to do right now. Mr. Borisov's government, and not only this government, has created a systemic crisis that is currently leading to an environmental and economic disaster for Northern Bulgaria, but will most likely cover the whole country in view of your inadequate actions. What am I talking about? More than 2 billion are invested in the meat processing and cultivation of pigs. lv., who are currently threatened. Employment is about 20,000 people who are threatened to stay on the street. Of those 57,000 pig heads that are currently to be killed, we're talking about 4 million. kg of meat. To imagine it, about 200 tires are what you say you're going to bury. This crisis is not instantaneous, I say it again, this crisis has been for years and we are alarming. And I'll give you a few quotes from your predecessor, 10th month, last year, to our questions: there is an unfavorable picture of the spread ahead of us of the disease at all; to another question he answers that there is a danger that Bulgaria will become a mass graveyard, 11th month, last year, your predecessor will not react. How did it come to this? You closed down the vets and at the moment the state has no picture of what is happening in the village, in the yard of the Bulgarian citizens. You're talking about 21 outbreaks, but there could be a lot more outbreaks. You shut down the carts so you could steal $30 million through both companies, with these incinerators that have between seven and eight times...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u141	Mr. Mirchev, I pay attention to you, do not use such expressions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u142	...lower capacity for animal burning. You also lied about the playgrounds being ready. The pool directorate had not agreed any sites and you are currently choosing sites during a fire, and it is not clear what will happen to the groundwater, the infection whether it can be restricted and so on. The hunting parties, because you were also talking about depopulation. I'm from Silistra. On the land border, where the plague of wild boar came from, instead of allowing the hunters to enter last year and make a depopulation, it was completely prohibited to hunt in these areas. And we're not talking about spreading through feral pigs alone, we're talking about the population of foxes, jackals, crows. In this way, the disease is also spreading and hunters are still forbidden to care for their hunting grounds, to try to counteract the further spread of the disease. One more thing. In Portugal and Spain, they proved that blood-sipping insects can also spread the disease. But do you know in Northern Bulgaria what happens to mosquitoes, again from the inaction of the leadership of GERB, which rules the state? They eat people there, and not to mention this type of spread of disease. You don't do any prevention and prevention, you just blur the eyes of Bulgarian citizens. You created a systemic crisis, an environmental and economic disaster because you dismantled the state. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] What should be done? We must draw from the positive practices of the Czech Republic, the state must have responsible behaviour to deal with this plague. We in a number of issues, both in the Commission and here in the stands, have given possible solutions to some of the problems...............we have not been heard once. People should also be compensated at full cost, because you are talking about compensation, but I am sure that in the end people will not take half the money they expect. Political responsibility one sentence and I'm done. Donchev, who as head of the National Epizootic Council did nothing, should resign immediately! [[Hanging his hand on the stands.]] The Director of BABBH (Bulgarian Food Safety Agency) must be released by Prime Minister Borisov immediately! [[Hanging his hand on the stands.]] And since you speak untruths and the European Commission came...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u144	...and with diplomatic tone told you that you failed and your resignation should have...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev, finish up.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u146	...before this hearing was deposited here! [[(Hit with your hand on the stands.) Claps from BSP for Bulgaria, shouts: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u147	In the end, I'll give you the floor, Madam Minister, you have that right. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I smiled at my colleague Mirchev's pathos. There are a lot of mosquitoes in Silistra, but he's been a hunter for a while now. Everyone in this room found out or at least some of them found out about African swine fever 2017 when we submitted the Depopulation Bill, in fact 2017, when Mr. Thomas Belev came to a meeting of the Agricultural Commission and the majority colleagues hesitated and the Law did not pass then. That was his time for prevention. Then we had to do what we call prevention and mass hunting, and depopulation of wild pigs, which, by the way, those who are not familiar, are about five pieces per square kilometer. In a crisis situation, it should be 0.3, so the landfill is really necessary. Is the Ministry doing enough? I don't know if the Ministry can do anything about the depo? With individual hunting, reducing the population of wild boar is extremely difficult, seen last year. That was tested. It didn't work. Of course there shouldn't be a race hunting in infected areas. This is clear to everyone, including the opposition, but where there are none outside these zones, outside the 20km zone, I think we should, in my opinion. Ms. Taneva as Minister has access to more information, perhaps she can disprove me, but where there is a large range, these wild pigs carry disease. To stop this disease, their population must be reduced. It can smolder, we've all been interested and seen that the virus could stay for up to a thousand days. That's a lot of months, that's three years actually, so the problem is really very serious. Do you think the Ministry will be in trouble? Of course there's gonna be trouble. Ms. Taneva will probably sign a third order after today's meeting, not one, not two, third order. The process is dynamic and this process needs to be upgraded, so to speak, constantly. You can't let that disease disappear with one swipe on the stick. When the majority of colleagues 2018 passed the Law here, then Mrs. Taneva's predecessor banned the hunting, cancelled the Mass Hunting Order for some other reasons and pretext. The whole thing is no longer needed, and as my colleague said only in this part I can agree that prevention is already lost. Now we need action, decisive action, unpleasant action. Colleagues, death is always ugly, and anyone who wants to accuse someone of something bad will show this ugly death. This should not frighten either the Ministry or the Food Agency, on the contrary, should motivate to eradicate this disease and destroy these pigs. Unfortunately, the owners really and in my opinion must be compensated, even those who are not so much, I suppose. And whether there is a possibility of the state, the Council of Ministers will say. But what happened and what could happen is really scary between 600 million and 800 million as money will lose the pigs themselves. Industrial capital called two weeks ago, I invited them personally to the Commission, Ms. Taneva attended, answered most of the questions. Unfortunately, some of these people are currently in these critical situations. Some of them also fell under the blows of African plague, and they themselves say that they must immediately be euthanized the sick animals, so that immediately after that the so-called period of time.. has a period in which to be decontaminated, to pass the 40-day quarantine, it will hardly be only 40 days. From then on, to be able to start over from raising a pig's mother to making a finished product a 100-pound pig, it takes nine months. You realize that's a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms will express Mr. Apostle's attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I admit that my questions today were prepared to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev, not so much to you, because my personal opinion is that the weak link in the fight against African plague is not so much the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, in the face of veterinary activities that are carried out in the outbreaks, but rather the accompanying activities that are beyond the priorities of the Ministry of Agriculture. I am referring to interinstitutional coordination with the Ministry of Defence, with the Ministry of Interior and other power structures that are also involved in this process. One thing's clear, the vets are doing their job. This is necessary, but not sufficient condition. This activity must also be included very strongly by the power ministries to ensure that the initial outbreak is built, which will physically ensure the protection of pathways, roads, entrances, disinfection exits, prohibit any movement of goods, goods, animals, meats and everything on which the disease is going. That is why my request is that you pay attention to this in this national epizootic headquarters, because the Deputy Prime Minister is not here today, to actively participate the authorities of the power ministries to support the activities of our veterinarians. This interinstitutional coordination is very important. While this coordination is limping, colleagues, whatever efforts our vets make, we will not control the disease, we simply will not control it. This is not the sole commitment of the Ministry of Agriculture alone. I really wish the Deputy Prime Minister would be here today. My questions were entirely to him in this direction, because the weak link in this chain that fights the African plague is the power ministries that provide the physical secession of the infected areas, of the infected outbreaks. That was one of my accents. The second accent, Madam Minister, what I could not say in the first two questions. The other weak link, the other weak link in your activity, this is the communication campaign. Please focus on the communication campaign, talk to people, talk to farmers in normal language, in their language, because to date the livestock farmers are still not convinced of the actions of our veterinarians. These posters, these brochures, we can see it's not working. More attention, more conversations in their language, all livestock farmers to be convinced that the government's actions are right, because otherwise there is the misunderstanding, the feeling, the belief of people that these are not the right actions. My request is to emphasize both the communication campaign and the relationship with the people. My third request is that you pay attention to the regional epizootic committees. I personally attended one of the two meetings in such committees. I have to tell you, it's a full-blown conversation there. There is a complete transfer of responsibility from the vets to the forest, from the forest to the mayors, from the mayors to I don't know who, an excuse for interfering with the rules, an excuse for interfering with the regulation, an excuse for interfering with some legal basis. The shortest period for the change of the regulatory base shall be three months. Dear colleagues, in this critical situation we do not have the right not to three months, we do not have the right to three hours delay, the decisions should be taken now and immediately, and the next day to apply as in the army, Mr Admiral, makes one, makes two, makes three. Until we, our headquarters, mature to this idea that the situation is military, we will not deal with the plague. So, Madam Minister, with these several requests, as a recommendation to you, and not only to you, but also to the National Staff and to Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, I am done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. This concludes the procedure for taking account of the answers. I see no request from the Volya Parliamentary Group. Dear Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u152	I'm sorry to keep you busy a little bit longer, but I'm a man of factology above all, and I couldn't just stand by what I've heard. First of all, for the attitude and recommendations, thank you, Mr. Affordable. You have been specific enough and I accept them fully, as well as some of the things that I have said, as topics that are to come, are really important, and what you have said to me as a recommendation. Believe me, I will do and I will make every personal effort to do this. I am also under the impression that personal contact with people on the ground is most effective, and I understood that when three weeks ago, on the ground, I asked to go representatives of the scientific community on the subject. As I work with colleagues from the BSP in a very good constructive dialogue not now, as a minister, but also as President of the Commission, I do not want anyone to be offended. But when we applaud illiterateness and ignorance from this tribune, we cannot ask for one from society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. Here are the MPs from the areas that were first affected by the disease.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u155	In the manner of conduct, not on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u156	A minister or another colleague cannot constantly question the knowledge of the Member of the National Assembly in each speech. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]] People's representative is a man who has to...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u157	Mr. Milkov, to me!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u158	Wait, I want you to listen to me. I'm talking to you. You should have made a remark, because this happens in every speech today twice and in parliamentary control several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u159	Mr. Milkov, I didn't make a remark to Mr.... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u160	I want you to listen to me because I'm addressing you. I'm addressing you! The first time you passed it, the second time you passed it. The MP is obliged, and he does, to talk to experts, and here the issue is about national security. I don't know, the minister who is missing, Donchev, would probably have taken a look at national security issues. [[Reply from MP Hamid Hamid.]] The questioning of the knowledge and commitment of the Members of the National Assembly must be permanently sanctioned by the lead meeting. You didn't do it twice in a row. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u161	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. We start with a report from the Energy Commission. Mr. Nikolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal based on the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for access to the Chamber of Mr. Ivan Ivanov. Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u163	We vote on the proposal for admission in Mr. Ivanov's room. Vote 92 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mr. Ivanov to the hall. Go on, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u164	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting held on 18 July 2019, the Energy Commission discussed and voted on the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Ms. Svetla Todorova Member. She pointed out that an Agreement between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed in implementation of a decision of the Council of Ministers. The purpose of the Agreement is to establish and implement technical cooperation services and to develop draft regulations, methodologies, instructions and rules relating to market monitoring as well as internal rules for the Commission's investigative expert on energy and water regulation. It also provides for the development of draft rules on the keeping of single regulatory reporting for electricity distribution operators, a methodology for assessing the value of the capital and operating costs of electricity distribution enterprises, a methodology for linking regulated revenues of electricity distribution undertakings to performance and quality indicators of services. The Commission's capacity for energy and water regulation is expected to develop in order to implement its powers in implementing Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale market in energy related to the conduct of checks, the seizure of electronic evidence and the taking of oral explanations and the imposition of penalties, the settlement of disputes and the means of appeal by companies and others. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 13 votes for the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in respect of the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u165	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mr. Ivanov, come in. You have the floor to present this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, your attention is: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a bill for ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At a regular meeting held on 25 July 2019, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The objective of the Agreement is to establish and implement technical cooperation and implementation services for projects by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as an organisation with particular experience and expertise in energy policy development and energy sector regulation. The agreement provides for the implementation of a number of activities that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will carry out with a view to achieving those objectives. Draft regulations, methodologies, instructions and rules relating to market monitoring and internal rules for the Commission's energy and water regulation investigative expert should be developed under the Agreement. Next, the Agreement provides for the development of draft rules for maintaining uniform regulatory reporting for electricity distribution operators, a methodology for assessing the value of the capital and operating costs of electricity distribution undertakings, a methodology for linking regulated revenue of electricity distribution undertakings to performance and quality indicators of services. The Commission's capacity for energy and water regulation to implement its powers in implementing Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale market in energy related to the conduct of checks, the seizure of electronic evidence and the taking of oral explanations and the imposition of penalties, the settlement of disputes and the means of appeal by companies and other procedural and legal issues with a view to their effectiveness, transparency and predictability is envisaged. The agreement is signed under the conditions of subsequent ratification and contains clauses which require the National Assembly to ratify it by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principal support for the proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: 19 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support, at first vote, the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on providing support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in relation to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u167	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u168	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a Draft Law on the ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its meeting held on 10 July 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for the ratification of an Agreement for providing support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with regard to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The meeting was attended by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission: Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, Commissioner, and Mrs. Radostina Metodieva. Ms. Haritonova presented the Draft Law, pointing out that on 30 January 2019 an Agreement between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed in implementation of a decision of the Council of Ministers which aims to provide technical cooperation services and support the implementation of projects. It pointed out that the Agreement provides for the development of regulatory acts governing market monitoring and the establishment of internal rules for the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The subject matter of the Agreement is the establishment of a draft rules for keeping uniform regulatory reporting for electricity distribution operators and the establishment of a methodology for assessing the revenues and costs of their activities. With the implementation of the activities under the Agreement, the competence of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory will be increased and the powers of experts in implementing Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market. People's representative Pencho Milkov took part in the discussion, who expressed his opinion that the provided technical cooperation and assistance services can be carried out by Bulgarian authorities and specialists, not by foreign institutions. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 14 votes for a vote, 7 votes against abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in respect of the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u170	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. At its regular meeting held on 17 July 2019, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on providing support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development as regards the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. The bill presented Mrs. Evgenia Haritonova, member of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Radostina Metodieva, Chief Expert at the Directorate of Law in the same commission. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed unanimously: with 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for the ratification of an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with regard to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a bill ratifying an Agreement on support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with regard to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme, No 902-02-18, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 June 2019. They voted 133 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u172	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedure for the draft to be discussed to be voted on at second reading due to a lack of proposals for amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u173	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second vote. They voted 133 MPs: 112, against 5, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u174	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of an Agreement providing support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with regard to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme. A single member. It ratifies the Agreement providing support for projects between the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development with regard to the Energy Sector Regulatory Development Programme signed on 30 January 2019. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u175	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the second vote the Bill on ratification of the Agreement. They voted 135 MPs: 111, against 2, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR MILK DISCLOSURE. Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Before I give the floor to Mr. Lazarov, I would like to make you an announcement: there will be no parliamentary control today, but written answers will be given to the ministers. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u176	Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence and Colonel Anton Gechev, who is acting temporarily as a member of the Military Information Service, before we begin.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u177	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 130 MPs: 123, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please invite the persons admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u178	On 16 July 2019 a report on a draft law supplementing the Military Intelligence Act, No 954-01-49, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs, adopted on the first vote on 19 July 2019. "Accordance to the Military Intelligence Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u179	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov. There will be no statement from Mr. Popov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer with the edited version for the name of the Law: the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Military Intelligence Act. Vote 124 MPs: 119, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u180	The paragraph is the only proposal of the MPs Philip Popov and Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u181	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Between the first and second readings by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we made a proposal stating the following: if, during his appointment, the Director of the Service of Military Information (Military Information) has reached the age of high age for the respective military title, he completes his assignment as a civilian employee and can be reassigned to the same post for another five years. The same proposal was then made an editorial amendment by the President of the Commission and Members of the National Assembly different as content, but as a direction of the Law almost identical. However, our proposal was made because we argue and believe that it will actually solve the problem in the Office and that this service should essentially be and remain military. The head of the same service should also be military, so we have made this proposal. However, I withdraw our proposal from the stand because, as I said, it is contained further in Mr. Lazarov's proposal. At the same time, however, in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that there is no need for the Commission to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market within the This we cannot support, so I am proposing a separate vote on item. 1 of the Commission's proposal and the rest of the text below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u183	You want a vote on the item. 1 separately from the rest of the text. I put to the vote Mr. Philip Popov's proposal for a separate vote. We accept the withdrawal of their proposal. We vote separately if this House supports this proposal, i.e. 1 of the other text. They voted 130 MPs: 127, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u184	Proposal of the MPs Milen Mihov, Boris Borisov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only: It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 the words of the military service in progress are deleted and finally added a civil servant. 2. In para. 4 A sentence is created second: The proposal is submitted to the Council of Ministers by the Minister of Defence. 3. A new para is being created. 5. When within the period referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof. 1 The Director of the Office has reached the limit of age for the military title concerned, shall be relieved of military service and shall continue to serve until the expiry of the period for which he is appointed. 4. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." in the case of acquisition of a pension for insurance service and age under art. 68 of the Social Security Code; 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para 7. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u185	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll take a point. 1, where added to the "Civil." My statement is directed at that part of the MPs who are not tempted in the military because I am convinced that the military here is aware of the problems. Colleagues, military intelligence is an area of the military case, a shortcut is called the Military Information Service, entrusted with conducting this kind of intelligence. This service uses a number of means and methods of intelligence to collect and analyse information in order to provide as reliable and more accurate information as possible to both the relevant military command and the military-political leadership of the State for the object of exploration or so-called object of intelligence, its capabilities, intentions and so on. By its scope, it is strategic, operational, tactical, and according to the means it uses, technical, special, agential, and even already we have space intelligence. The objectives of military intelligence activities are primarily subject to the guidelines of the country's military strategy and have mainly three groups of tasks: the informational provision of military policy, the immediate impact on the sites in the intelligence state and on sites that play a role and importance for its armed forces and external military-political relations, the creation of intelligence positions to carry out the intelligence activities. The tasks may be different, but above all they are related to an assessment of military potential, to creating prerequisites for gathering information of a military nature and, not least, informational provision of state leadership and foreign policy authorities in making current political decisions most beneficial to the intelligence state, note, in the field of military policy of the state. The objects are a variety of military potential, international and military-political relations, special objects, objects of intelligence penetration, all complex categories. I'm not gonna bother you with this, there's enough training courses, higher education and master's degrees. I stress these are complex actions. They require a court-martial knowledge of the military case, that is, the least you have to have is a stable higher military education with the relevant special courses so that you can understand the nature of military intelligence, perform these actions, not to speak, to lead them. In other words, military intelligence is a complex specific activity. She's specific, and that's why she's called "Military Intelligence" so the semantics of the word suggests that whoever's in charge is going to be military. Moreover, this leader meets with colleagues, officials, leaders of military intelligence of NATO partner countries and, notice, they are all military. [[Noise and lines.]] All of them! I ask you: how a civilian who does not know, at least has not completed the relevant training, has not graduated from the relevant academy, has no higher military education with strategic purpose, and it is imperative that you can perform this activity, be able to defend, report and be able, at least professionally, to express itself at these meetings, not only by using, but also by understanding the specialised military terminology. I understand that there is a problem with the personnel security of the military intelligence authorities that quite often you have to retire a senior military officer due to the age of age limit for the title he holds. This is the reason for our proposal, which we have withdrawn, which you have done editorially, and we will support in this case this senior officer to complete his mandate as a director as a civilian employee, but I stress, only in this case. The opening of the door is the opening of Pandora's box. Based on the many speculations that have emerged in the mass media, no wonder, if we accept this today, this amendment will enter with the designated name of the amendment so-and-so, and this is the beginning of the debasement of the Military Intelligence Service as a service and fulfillment of its duties. I call on you to adhere to the semantics of the word "military intelligence" and to understand that a civilian can only be the one who has been once militaryly appointed and then continue his duties and not initially be appointed such a person. Thank you for doing this in 2015. These people here, this majority, you supported, the Director of the Military Information Service to be military. I hope you will do it now, because really the story is quite paradoxical last time with the Minister of the Reformation Bloc introduced the attempt to be a civilian employee, now they do, I don't know why, the United Patriots with a minister of them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You're proposing to supplement the Military Intelligence Act with a single paragraph. In this paragraph, you are the only one who opens up the possibility that the Director of the Military Information Office will also be a civilian employee. I draw your attention to what correction you are making. The words of the military service are used and replaced by a civil servant. At the same time, a new para is being created. 5 in art. 24, which regulates the appointment of the Director of the Military Information Service. What exactly are you doing? You are giving the opportunity with another chaos for political control of the Military Information Service to military intelligence. What is reality, what is the reality with regard to this service to date? The Office of Military Information is trusted by the partner services. No one can disprove that, and no one so far has proof of the absence of that. Now you risk this trust by changing the Law and following up. A few questions to the importers and those who will support the amendment. Don't you think there's a serviceman who meets the high requirements for taking up the position of the Director? [[(Noise and replica:]] You answer that there is, and at the same time you are willing to allow a civilian who has not grown up in this strictly hierarchical system and has accumulated the relevant knowledge and experience to lead, to be assigned to this responsible position. What are you doing?! I refer especially to those who served in the Bulgarian Army and will soon support this amendment. You insult active servicemen or undermine the authority of the service, respectively, of the servicemen. You challenge the prestige of those who want to apply and work in the Bulgarian Army tomorrow. I'm sure you'll say it's far-fetched. Think about it! I ask you again: isn't career growth a natural way to form a superior leader in a strictly hierarchical system and the accumulation of these knowledge and qualities who are bothering you? I think you're preparing the possibility that the only security service outside the prime minister's scope, outside the direct surveillance and obedience of the prime minister, will depend solely on him and because he has no view among the servicemen through the defence minister to appoint a civilian. You understand what you're doing, don't you? A few years ago, you heard our arguments. What happened when you suddenly changed your mind?! You have a civilian appointment ready, don't you? That is why you are making the proposal as MPs. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u189	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mr. Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u190	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u191	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u192	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I take the floor to join my fellow Members who have spoken and to invite you especially this part of the government that has passed through the military structures and are former military, to think about the Bulgarian Army and that this change you are making is not adequate and correct, even more so, speaking of the Military Intelligence Service. This change will lead to a decrease in the authority of the Office, first. Secondly, remember: in this service, quality has always been in service. What does it mean for a civilian to take up the job of the Military Intelligence Officer? Do I remind you of how they welcomed the partner services of Bakalov as a director and how he reduced the authority of this service? Not to mention any other actions he'd taken. You gentlemen once supported with the clear awareness that you should be a military officer, the military director of this service. We from the BSP for Bulgaria and we invite you once again to consider this is an important solution. This Office is one of the most respected partner services in all NATO countries. Thus, by opening this door, you create conditions, of course, to master this Service. Okay, we understand that, but what good is it if you destroy this Service? Something we have that works a little bit, and you destroy it! Enough of these repairs for certain people, be principled for once. Not to rename the amendment you're saying you're making. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u193	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make a brief statement and I will answer why the suggestion that the amendment is made for a person is politically and partyly motivated and is by no means justified. In fact, the amendment is only in terms of one of the conditions for a professional to take up the position of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the procedure by which the appointment takes place eliminates any suggestion and all that it is done for one person because the procedure is a barrier to political appointment. And I'm going to say it very simply. Who can claim that the Secretary of Defense will offer exactly one person for this post? Who can claim that the same person will be approved by the Council of Ministers? Who can claim that this will be confirmed by the president by decree if this candidacy and this man do not meet all the requirements of all the things that the opposition here said should have the head of military intelligence? In another way, I simply ask the rhetorical question. If this man, who is appointed by the government, will he be appointed by the President of the Republic? Obviously, he will not be appointed if the coordination procedure has not been followed. Under these conditions, this amendment is consistent with real life. This law has been in place since 2015, and there was then a debate on whether the head of military intelligence should be mandatory and only military, military or civilian or may be appointed. The answer to this question was then in this text that we have. Life, however, shows us other realities. The BSP's very proposal, which says it can be after his retirement civilian, confirms that there is a need for improvement, a change in this text. Currently, three categories of employees are serving in the Military Intelligence Service under the Defence and Armed Forces Act, civil servants and people under the Labour Code. Military servicemen by the nature of the specifics of work are still different. We can divide them into two military personnel who have completed military training in military schools and civil specialists who have civilian specialties required for the intelligence activities of the service, who later received a rank in the army. I ask: should we say that soldiers are also two different categories and divide them? In this case, which we propose gives us the opportunity to use the capacity of our entire intelligence guild, using this term, to use... [[Heckling]] And in civilian intelligence, shouldn't I ask the rhetorical question? Can a military scout be the head of the NSA or the intelligence service? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "No. "]] Are you sure? [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Yes. "]] Well, as long as you're sure, I'm not sure about that. I therefore appeal to support the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u195	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Here's a line, Mr. Tsonkov. Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u196	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I feel sorry for you, Mr. Mihov. I didn't think you were a wet order guy. [[Noise, shout and lines to the right: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u197	Mr. Tsonkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u198	For one particular person to make such a hero. But there is something else I want to ask you: are the professional military and the professionals in the defense and security system finished, so we have reached out to the civil servants? Just so you know, the cleaning lady must be a civil servant in this office. Is she going to be a director after 10 years of work too? [[Heckling]] Mr. Mihov, motivation is lost in this system and in this service, if we allow a civilian, more than any other service, to come and head Military Intelligence. At the moment there is a problem - if you don't know, here you can say Admiral Manushev, and Mr. Radev, he has worked enough in the system, that at the moment hard to recruit, there are few willing to start working in the service. And it is the eyes of the Bulgarian state, not only of the Ministry of Defence, outside Bulgaria. It must provide information in a timely manner so that the best national security policy can be formed. Think about what you're doing! That's not the way to set a man up. Stop dealing with the security services and destroy statehood in Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u199	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Second line, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. Third line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, first of all, I would like to tell you that what you are importing really opens up Pandora's box because when you write a civilian inside, and move on to the other requirements, I just want to tell you that based on the so-called National Security Concept adopted by the National Assembly Decision of 16 April 1998, in the national security system where you had to serve for 10 years in order to become a director, head of the Office of Information, enters the maintenance of armed forces, increasing the level of civil protection, protecting confidential information. Does it mean that, if someone has served 10 years in the Department of Defence, or has been the Head of the Department of the Department of Security of classified information and after you have authorised him and a civilian to take up the post of Director of the Service of Military Information, he may run for it and take up this position? Then I ask where I will reach what I have told you for five minutes as a specific work, terminology, knowledge, things you do not learn from the textbook, but learn in living life and learn in the way it is said: "It is better to touch once than to see five times. Once you've lived it, it's more than 10 times you've read it. The last thing I understood here at the end we will accept this to be a civilian employee, but in the end we will throw the hot potato into the Council of Ministers and the President. They decide, after all, what we've offered them, whether it's good or not. Therefore, once again, we insist that he be a soldier in his original assignment and only if he reaches his final age for his rank can he be a civilian. The other one's from the Evil One. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u201	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Lazarov, third line, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u202	In order not to make a statement, Madam President. Mr. Mihov, you neglected to say we're not changing the order of appointment to this office. It remains the same as we all voted in 2015, although there were disagreements at the time, both in this and in all other services to be done by decree of the President. We do not change the order to be appointed as before by the Minister of Defence, by the Council of Ministers or to be elected by another body which has been experienced. That's what you missed to say. This one, first. Secondly, regarding the fifth paragraph, there were speeches here. I don't see the coworker. The fifth paragraph is the editing of the BSP colleagues' proposal?!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u203	Mr. Lazarov, it's a line to Mr. Mihov after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u204	Yeah, yeah, he didn't say that, Mr. Mihov. Thirdly, you missed, Mr. Mihov, to say right now, if anyone has bothered to read this law that we are amending, he will see that in art. 25 says that directors, deputy directors of the service can also be civilian employees. Also voted in 2015 from the entire House. To insinuate that, you see, the cleaning lady would be a civil servant. Well, if that's the case, it's hard and bitter in this service! [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u205	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Hole, Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u206	Mr. Tsonkov, you seem to have complimented me because in our organization in history the bravest have performed the most risky operations. [[Radio.]] I don't know which one you think is the contracting authority. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister or the Minister of War? I agree, Mr. Lazarov, that I did not state the procedure so legally justified, but I tried to be didactic, to say in a more spoken language that the procedure does not change, and if someone thinks they are appointing someone in advance, they should turn to the presidency. The idea that the amendment is made for one person means that the President's will is ignored, and we have seen that he has serious will. Secondly, when it is said that the Chief of Military Intelligence must be military, then we must come to the logical reasoning that the Commander-in-Chief in Peace and Military Time must be acting military. And then putting it as a condition for a president can only run for servicemen in real military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-07-26.u207	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. In accordance with the separate voting procedure voted on, I shall put it to the vote. 1 of paragraph Only in this bill. Vote 137 MPs: 115, against 21, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We proceed to vote on points two to six, according to the procedural proposal made by Mr. Philip Popov. We vote points two, three, four, five and six. They voted 137 MPs: for 136 against 1, no abstentions. We are voting in full in the version of paragraph One. 135 MPs voted: 115, against 20, no abstentions. The proposal and the bill have been passed. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on two questions from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. I request that the Members of the National Assembly receive their written answers. Written answers from: - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Vergiev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Stefan Burgev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Atanasova to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mariana Nikolova on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Andon Donchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Violeta Jeleva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on two questions from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Alexander Simov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Kanev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues by the National Representative Ivan Chenchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Taneva on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Penev; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Desislava Taneva on two issues from the National Representative Spas Panchev. That concludes today's session. The next regular meeting on 31 July 2019 was held at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
