ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will present to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 11 December 2019: "1." Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Retire from the National Representative Diana Savateva on 6 December 2019. 2. Election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The selection procedure shall be in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 6 November 2019. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers supplied by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019, adopted at the first vote on 29 March 2019. 4. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Property Act. Importers suppose Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019 5. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Consumer Protection. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2019, item 1 for Thursday, 12 December 2019. 6. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Vice-President and two members of the Communications Regulation Commission from the quota of the National Assembly, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. Importer supplied by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee on 29 November 2019, item two for Thursday, 12 December 2019. 7. Draft decision for privatization of a separate part of the property of the Bulgarian maritime qualification centre. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2019, item 3rd for Thursday, 12 December 2019. 8. A bill for ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-B-UCB "Materials," supply of equipment, software updates, services and maintenance training of the Mobile Production Line for Metal Structures (Material, Supply Equipment, Software Updates, Services and Training to support the Ultimate Building Machine). Importer of the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2019, item 1 for Friday 13 December 2019. 9. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Climate Change Restriction Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 November 2019, point 2 for Friday 13 December 2019. 10. Parliamentary control comprising: 10.1. Debates on the inquiry by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need to invest in the infrastructure of the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for. 10.2. Answers to questions and Please vote on the so-read agenda. They voted 187 MPs: 144 against 1, abstention 42. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 4 to 10 December 2019: Draft Law amending the Law on Social Services. Importer "Iskren Veselinov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Report on the hearing of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. Importer "Anton Kutev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Bill for ratification of an international contract (LOA) BU-B-UCB Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and to the Budget and Finance Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Energy Commission, the Budget and Finance Committee and the Committee for Agriculture and Food. Proposal concerning the debate on inquiry No 954 05 51 of 20 November 2019 by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova on the policy of the MRB to prevent the danger of water regime in certain settlements and the need to invest in the infrastructure of the water sector in order to improve the quality of the service offered to consumers and the financial instruments provided for this. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 19 September 2017 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for establishing order in the land relations, as amended by the National Assembly Decision of 12 October 2018 and the National Assembly Decision of 27 February 2019. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importer "Krasimir Tsipov." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Draft amending and supplementing the Independent Financial Audit Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Messages: On 6 December 2019, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 9 of 5 December 2019 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 8/2019 and its observations. By its decision, the Constitutional Court declared the provision of Article unconstitutional. 42a, para. 3 of the State Property Act. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria by its order has authorised: 1. A helicopter from the Air Force with a crew of servicemen to fly to Zadar Airport, Croatia, on 10 December 2019 and back on 12 December 2019, with a reserve day 13 December 2019. Flights will be carried out for the purpose of taking part in ground display at Zadar Air Base, Croatia, on the occasion of a ceremony for the official opening of the Training Centre of the Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations. The Republic of Bulgaria is a Party to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Hungary and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of a Multinational Aviation Training Programme for Special Operations ratified by law. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. 2. The deployment and use of an aircraft with crew of air force personnel to carry out special flights to provide air transport for the needs of the Ministry of Defence by route from Sofia airport to Zadar airport, the Republic of Croatia, on 10 December 2019 and back on 12 December 2019. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. 3. In the implementation of the bilateral legal framework in the field of military cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Serbia between 9 and 12 December 2019 will be conducted flights of military aircraft of the members of the Air Force of the Republic of Serbia from the Air Base of Batatitsa, Belgrade, to the Military Formation of Graf Ignatevo and vice versa. In this regard, he has authorised the passage and residence of the following forces and means by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria: aircraft with their crew and statutory weapons; helicopter with crew, without armament; military engineering and technical staff with equipment, equipment and no weapons. The conduct of flights is not linked to military operations and preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the conduct of activities to prevent military action conducted by others of another State or organisation of armed forces. The notifications were received on 6 and 9 December 2019 with input numbers 903-09-79, 903-09-80 and 903-09-81 and provided to the Defence Committee. Last message: The National Statistical Institute has received information about: - Indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market in industry in October 2019; business conjuncture in November 2019; gross domestic product in the third quarter of 2019; labour productivity, employed persons and spent time in the third quarter of 2019; turnover indexes in the Section of Retail Trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles, in October 2019; indexes of industrial production in October 2019; indexes of construction production in October 2019; indexes of construction production in October 2019. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Velchev, here's a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! December 10th marks the beginning of the 71st anniversary of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted in 1948. [[Reply from MP Mustafa Karadayi, who leaves the hall.]] On this day, in every part of the world, men, women and children of all races, religions and nationalities who have carried the world's cultural ethnic diversity and colour, note the importance of the first document for the protection of human rights, which expresses and embodies the dreams, aspirations and hopes of peoples and individuals to live with dignity, equality and security. Human rights are the foundation of our human and co-existence. Universal, indivisible and mutual, they lie at the heart of everything the progressive part of humanity strives to achieve, and in the way of peace, understanding and cooperation. Human rights are universal not only because their roots exist in all cultures and traditions. Their modern universality is based both on their approval by all UN member states and by those who have followed in the years and adopted by the international community a number of documents with key importance for the protection of human rights, one of which is the ratification by the Republic of Bulgaria of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocols thereto. As the former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan notes in one speech, human rights are what makes us human, they are the principles by which we create the sacred home for human dignity. Human rights are rights that every human has as a human being. We're all human beings, we're all human rights worthy of one cannot be true without the other. When today we are talking about the right to life or development or disagreement and diversity, we are talking about tolerance. Lack of tolerance is not only a denial of human dignity. I am convinced that this is also at the heart of suffering, hatred, insanity and lack of empathy, which, in turn, continue to cause political violence and hinder the development of the economy. This is one of the lessons in the last decades that we have learned, albeit in the hard way. It is an indisputable fact that despite the difficulties here we have not allowed religious wars on the basis of religious differences. Let us not forget that, with the combined efforts of our people and the Bulgarian Orthodox Church during World War II, we did not allow the destruction of Bulgarian Jews and Roma, we did not admit any Jewish or Roma holocaust, and much of the Armenians discovered in the face of Bulgaria their second homeland. This is our national tradition of tolerance and respect for the various, and it obliges us to continue to actively oppose anti-Semitism, xenophobia, racial discrimination, religious intolerance, hate language and other modern forms of discrimination. In this sense, I would like to emphasise that our human rights policy is aimed at: ensuring equality for all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation; equal rights and opportunities of women and men; protecting the rights of the child and vulnerable groups in the Bulgarian society; active involvement in the public life of the Roma population and so on and so forth. These are also the key priorities for our country as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. Subject to the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, Bulgaria as part of the large European family seeks to increase the effectiveness of national human rights legislation. He will continue to engage adequately and comprehensively in fighting to prevent domestic violence and violence against women by improving his legal framework in line with international standards. Today, when the world faces unresolved problems and challenges related to the life and future of millions of women, men and children, equality is not limited to the rights protected by law. It is rooted in respect and justice for every single person, whether or not because of his individuality. While it is a huge role of the legislative system in this regard, the ultimate goal is to achieve a deeply meaningful and conscious change in the attitudes in society and the behaviour of each of us, because each of our human rights is also responsible for the responsibility to respect the right of others, and when we protect each other's rights, we are solidarity. The active civic position is born from our sense of social concern and empathy towards the large community, which go beyond the borders of nationality and cultural identity. On December 10th, a victory of tolerance, diversity and pluralism is celebrated for another year. This is the standard of a new era in which communication and cooperation between countries and nations determine their success and survival. The ideals of human rights are the ideals of our belonging and humanity. They are a true expression of the highest level of humanism, dreams, aspirations and ideas of humanity. They are also the best in us and let us do our best to give them full-blooded life through the prism of mutual acquaintance and mutual acceptance. And may God protect Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Colleagues, we continue with the first item of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application was received from Mrs Diana Dimova Savateva, Member of Parliament from the Second Election Region 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected from the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I suggest to your attention: It's a service project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts Diana Dimova Savateva's authority as a Member of Parliament from the Second Election Region of Burgas. I put to the vote your proposals Project for a decision to release Mrs. Savateva as a representative of the National Assembly. Vote 180 MPs: 173, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with point two: SELECTION OF THE COMMISSION'S PRESENT FOR THE PROCEEDING OF CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECOGNITION OF DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED PROCEEDANCES. Firstly, I will introduce you to the conditions for the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall present a report on the hearing held. 3. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal on their order, as defined in the list of candidates for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half the votes of the present MPs is considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present MPs, the candidate has been selected for the highest number of votes. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 6 November 2019 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I give Mr. Gurnevsky's floor to brief us on the report of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before I introduce you to the Commission report on the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, I will ask according to art. 49, para. 2 for a procedure for the admission of Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov a candidate for Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Please vote on Mr. Gurnevski's procedure for admission of Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to the Chamber. They voted 173 MPs: 165, against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Tsatsarov to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u6	Thank you. At an open session held on 3 December 2019 and aired in real time on the Internet, via the website of the National Assembly, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Committee for Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics held a hearing of the proposed candidates for the Commission's Chairman for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure on Conditions and Procedures for Offering Candidates, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents, Hearing of Candidates in the Commission for Countering Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, as well as the procedure for electing President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The meeting was attended by representatives of NGOs and media. The chairman of the commission Boris Yachev announced that there were two proposals from the MPs for the Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property............................. the candidacy of Simeon Georgiev Naydenov and Sotir Stefanov Tsatsarov. Proposals for candidates, together with all documents, are published on the specialized website of the National Assembly, and are made public. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the applicants under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army were examined. The results of the check are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. No documents establishing belonging to the bodies referred to in Article were found for either applicant. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. All the candidates required under Section I, i.e. are submitted to the proposals of the candidates. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure: written reasons, CVs, diplomas for higher education, declarations and documents certifying the requirement under art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property; written concepts of strategic management if selected; Declarations of incompatibility according to Model "Annex 3'; Declarations of property and interests under Model, established by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property; Annex 4 of the Rules of Procedure, as applicants meet all requirements for taking up the job. The hearing was held in alphabetical order of the first names of the candidates for the chairman of the CPCONPI. Simeon Naydenov's candidacy was presented by the MP Plamen Hristov. He pointed out that Mr. Naydenov has over 30 years of legal internship, held positions requiring responsible and timely decisions for the detection of crimes, including corrupt ones, as well as demonstrated an active position in defending the rights of Bulgarian citizens and in defending the legality in Bulgaria. He added that the qualification, professional path and moral qualities of Mr. Naydenov prove in an indisputable way that with his rich experience he will contribute to achieving better results in countering corruption. Mr. Hristov also pointed out the main priorities in the concept of his work as future chairman of KKCONPI, namely: prevention of corruption; ensuring regular accountability of the Commission to society; developing interaction with other state institutions and introducing anti-corruption training. After the presentation of his candidacy Simeon Naydenov exposed his concept of work if he was elected President. He pointed out that in a synthesized form the concept gives an idea of how and how the Commission will work, the most important thing for this body is to respect the principles of legality, independence, integrity, impartiality and transparency. He pointed out that state policy in the area of corruption prevention, as well as monitoring, periodic assessments of the measures implemented and analysis of their impact on corruption risk is extremely important. Another point of the concept is ensuring full and thorough interaction between the Commission and other state institutions, local self-government bodies and international organisations with similar direction of activity. Mr. Naydenov also noted that to prevent corruption behavior a necessary condition is the creation of anti-corruption consciousness, and for this purpose it is envisaged the implementation of the initiative for introducing anti-corruption education in schools. In addition, he pointed out that, as a member of the parliamentary Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics, he has collided and worked on a number of corruption cases, which is an undeniable basis for taking up the post of Chairman of the KKCONPI. Sotir Tsatsarov's application was presented by the MP Emil Dimitrov. He emphasized on the remarkable academic and professional legal preparation of the candidate due to the excellent success of the course of his studies and participation in a number of national and international programs and trainings to improve his qualification as a lawyer. Mr. Tsatsarov holds over 27 years of legal internship, from which he has been a judge in a district and district court for nearly 20 years, mainly in criminal cases and the rest as Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this quality he has always demonstrated a high degree of knowledge of legal matter and high erudition. During his term of office as Prosecutor General, he made nine requests to the Constitutional Court for a mandatory interpretation of constitutional norms and for the declaration of unconstitutionality of legal provisions, and initiated a number of interpretation acts by the Supreme Courts. He has also participated expertly in the legislative parliamentary process on behalf of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria especially when discussing bills for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, the PPC, the Law on the Judiciary, the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and others. Sotir Tsatsarov also has very good experience as an administrative leader, initially of a district court and a district court and subsequently of the state prosecution. He is able to organize the financial, administrative and personnel work throughout the system of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. As a result of his work as Prosecutor General, significant results have been achieved in countering corruption and organised crime, which was also reported in the latest report of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism in the IV Index. After the presentation of his candidacy Sotir Tsatsarov exposed his concept of work if he was elected President. The concept is, above all, a practically oriented attempt at proposals for specific measures, the aim of which is ultimately an effective work of the Commission to counter corruption and to withdraw illegally acquired property. Sotir Tsatsarov presented his views on work and changes in the different directions of the activities of KKCONPI. First of all, he noted that in an administratively structural way, a substantial change is needed, concerning the cancellation of the statutory fastenings and the number of states in the committee, the redistribution and optimization of the workload of the individual departments, new rules on the conduct of employee integrity checks and a change in territorial structures. In the next field of prevention of corruption, interaction and cooperation, it proposes the formation of an Advisory Council to the KKCONPI to attract established lawyers and other scientists in order to use their expertise and knowledge in drafting draft opinions on draft laws. He also believes that it is necessary to introduce permanent media monitoring with regard to publications containing data on corruption operating under a completely equal treatment of all media as a source of information. Mr. Tsatsarov pointed out that there is a need to draw up detailed and clear guidelines on how to fill in the declarations of property and interests with a view to removing all ambiguities and conflicting practices. It also envisions the introduction of a new simpler model of signals for corruption practices with the possibility of direct submission by e-mail. In the direction of countering corruption, it is of the opinion that a regular review of the work of the Directorate should be introduced in order to ensure legal and timely action in full interaction with the Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Interior and the SANS. In the next direction, which is the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and its management, there is a need to introduce electronic exchange of information with the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria as well as to provide a building fund for the storage of secured property. In support of Sotir Tsatsarov's candidacy, opinions have been received from the following institutions and organizations: the Faculty of Law and History at Southwestern University "Neofit Rilski", the Institute of State and Law at BAS, the University of National and World Economy, the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria, the University of Library Knowledge and Information Technologies. After the presentation of the concepts to the candidates were asked many questions by the members of the Commission, including those previously received in KBKKIPE by the Civic Association............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The following MPs took part in the discussion: Boris Yachev, Kristina Sidorova, Spas Gurnevski, Ivan Valkov, Milko Nedyalkov and Slavi Netsov. The candidates gave in-depth and comprehensive answers to the questions asked, thus furthering their views on the work of the anti-corruption body and protecting their professional qualities and intentions. After the hearing was concluded, the chairman of the committee Boris Yachev said that a report from the hearing will be submitted, to which a list of candidates who participated in the hearing will be attached, arranged in alphabetical order by the names of the candidates for the chairman of the CPCONPI and Draft of a decision for the selection of each candidate who participated in the hearing for the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Colleagues, I give the floor in two minutes to present the candidates. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to present the first candidate. As in alphabetical order, Mr. Simeon Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable candidates! I am pleased to present to your attention the candidacy of the National Representative of the Political Party Mr. Simeon Naydenov for Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. I would like to start by saying that for us, the fight against corruption and illegal wealth on the back of the Bulgarian people and the state is just as important as the fight against the cartels, which is our business card. That is why we have dealt with a particular responsibility towards putting forward a candidacy for the chair of this committee. Moreover, in the rich palette of personalities in our party, we have the confidence that we can offer a worthy candidate, which is undoubtedly Mr. Naydenov. You have already had the opportunity to get acquainted with his biography, but let me point out again that he is a lawyer with more than 35 years of practice. He was born on August 30, 1951 in the village of Belogradets, Varna. He graduated from law school in Moscow. He began his career in the system of the Ministry of Interior as an investigator, and since 1998 he has been listed as a lawyer in the Lawyers' College. It's not far-fetched to say that almost his entire conscious life has gone into a fight against crime. He's worked many cases, including corruption cases. Along with Mr. Naydenov's impressive professional biography, he has the authority of an honest and responsible person. You already know him from his work at the National Assembly, and I know that you will agree with me that he is extremely suitable to take this responsible position. The positions he stood in during his life were related to making timely and responsible decisions, demonstrating an active position in defending the rights of Bulgarian citizens and defending the legality in Bulgaria. All these professional qualities, along with high morals and especially its independence from the backstage, are particularly important to the future President of the Commission and Mr. Naydenov owns them. Let us highlight some important elements of its concept, behind which WOLI stands categorically. First of all is prevention of corruption. This means the portfolio Commission to use effectively...
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u9	The weather, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u10	...his legal instruments to monitor the implementation of anti-corruption measures, analyze corruption risk, identify corruption factors and anti-corruption laws. Our society has the right to know how competent authorities work and whether they are really taking all measures to reduce this problem, or are another hollow structure that is designed to mimic activity. The second focus in Mr. Naydenov's concept, which we support, is the strengthening of the Commission's interaction between the other state institutions, local government bodies, international organisations with similar subject matter. We are convinced that only with the joint efforts of all institutions can this problem be minimized.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u11	Get it over with, Mr. Christov!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u12	I'm finished, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the battle with this disability of society has already taken almost all levels of public life and the fight of the state structure is not easy. I hope you will support Mr. Naydenov's worthy candidacy for Chairman of the KKCONPI. Let the new chairman of the CPCONPI rule with dignity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Mr. Dimitrov will introduce us to the candidate Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I'd like to thank both candidates. They're worthy. Thank you for participating in this procedure, protecting their concepts! Once again, applause from us, because it was a difficult choice, they were subjected to media attacks, they were subjected to political attacks. Thank you for the opportunity to participate and for the opportunity to get acquainted with their concepts! It is very easy to introduce Mr. Tsatsarov because, as we said in the beginning, he is everything that others are not. His entire service is in the justice system, for two years he spent in a district court and all the other years after that he worked only as a criminal judge. As Prosecutor General, his merits over the last seven years have been extremely important, extremely significant. You know that he established an interdepartmental office, an association that was established in September 2013 on his initiative, for an agreement between the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior and the DANS for a specialized interdepartmental unit for investigating crimes committed by magistrates. No one's ever allowed it to happen until now. It was also a very good interaction of prosecutors with the KKCONPI, for which today we want to elect a chairman. As a result of the fight against corruption, many successes were reported, including the assistance of the Prosecutor General in the reports he provided to the Advisory Council on National Security. Last but not least, in order not to bore the honourable Members, I can say that in the last European Commission Report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism of 22 October 2019, significant progress has been made on indicator 4 "high-level corruption," with the conclusion that the progress made by Bulgaria in international cooperation is sufficient to fulfil the commitments made by the country at the time of its accession to the European Union. Here I would also like to say a few words about Mr. Tsatsarov's self-criticism towards all the results achieved and the ambition to increase them, namely his words, that the European Commission report is also an expression of the serious expectations for the future work of KPCONPI, at least because of the need for the institutions, including the Commission, to gain public trust and build their reputation of independence and professionalism in their work. These were part of the reasons by which we proposed to the National Assembly to discuss and vote on Mr. Tsatsarov's candidacy for President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have a say in this, please. Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u16	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Naydenov and Mrs. Tsatsarov! If a person is suing for the intensity in the fight against corruption on the agenda of the National Assembly, in this Forty-fourth Parliament it has reached a true height. Practically, since our constitution so far, we are constantly dealing with corruption, or more precisely, with the already famous KKCONPI, it was not a new law, it was not amendments to the Law, it was not a postponement of texts, it was not a law that was adopted at first reading and waiting for a second choice of President, and the resignation of the President and so on until today's procedure. The results of this fever activity are currently measured mostly by scandals. Studies of public opinion regularly remind that corruption remains in the forehead of the problems that Bulgarians identify as the sharpest in front of our state and society. I'm afraid that after today it will remain that way, and nothing shows that something will soon change significantly. Why do I think that? For several groups of reasons, which are, in fact, our reasons for not supporting either of these proposals. I say two applications, but, Mr. Naydenov, in view of the circumstances that we all understand too well, I will not dwell on yours and remain waiting for our joint work in the Committee on Legal Affairs of Parliament to continue. Different reasons can be grouped as political, institutional and, of course, as far as we vote individual. In political terms Mr. Tsatsarov is the candidate of the ruling majority. This is inevitable as a result of the legislative decision that the President of the KKCONPI should be elected by the Parliament, which is extremely unfortunate, as we have repeatedly emphasised. This simple fact automatically leads to an irrefutable connection between power and the authority that must monitor its corruption. Checks pick a checker. And we must not forget that the Law allows the same majority to terminate early the term of office of the President if it considers that he is not doing his job well. The election of a parliamentary speaker, where the insatiable law of the political majority operates, also makes any competition of the procedure completely illusory. We therefore had the opportunity to be convinced of the previous choice, in which we raised a candidate from BSP, and only the MPs of our group voted for it, although he obviously had an enviable expertise and practical experience in matter. The truth, of course, is that from the moment, under the respective candidacy, Mr. Tsatsarov's, sign their signatures, representatives of political groups forming the majority, the procedure has a predestined end. Follow-up hearings, trials, online broadcasts, and also in the current debate, are not as much a procedure as a inauguration ceremony. Parliament's choice has another vicious effect. It may, under the circumstances, formalise or conceal the intervention of the executive in determining the holder of that post. By the way, at the beginning of the history of this body, the President was mentioned by the Prime Minister. Officializes it sometimes because government and majority work in symbiosis, and that's normal, candidates agree between them. Very calmly, the Prime Minister could.. if and when he decided to explain that he had helped to choose Mr. Tsatsarov. That's his majority. You are his majority and the situation is much clearer now than when it explains how it has helped to elect a Supreme Judge, for example, where the instruments for this assistance are much more vague. But this is only if the government or the prime minister decides that he wants to do, because if things do not go well, if public opinion discontents in the event of a scandal, then the election will be the parliament's Of course, that's not very fair. We have to admit that there are no perfect solutions, there will always be criticism, but this is the heavy side of the power. In order to be clear about the responsibility in choosing this type of body and to distance the body fighting corruption from the government, we propose that its President be appointed by the President of the Republic. Much has been said about this proposal, we will discuss it again, as our bill has been tabled again, but I dare say that there are other important differences in the essence of the so-called anti-corruption body, which we at BSP are proposing and which I hope we will discuss again. And this is the institutional reason why we are voting against the proposed draft decision. In Mr. Tsatsarov's concept, he accepts, and it cannot be otherwise, given that he has agreed to be president of this body, he accepts the completely confused philosophy of a body in which all sorts of processes of radically different character have been mixed. Institutions, which have been created over the years and whose abbreviations in their time have been no less known than KPCONPI today. They immaculately merged into this kind of test of Rorschach, which represents the authority of this body. The QIPPD, BORKOR, KPOKI all reportedly and encouraged by the monitoring mechanism of the European Union have merged to be again shown in the form of the KKKONPI of the same mechanism, which is tired of retreating from our country as far as we understand it. And they all came a similar life path: constitution, scandal, resignations, change of chairmen. On this plane up to here is moving and KPCONPI. We fear that any chairman will continue with it, because we believe that its fate is enshrined in the Law. A law which, in the field of conflict of interest, decentralises production, allowing local authorities where relationships are the strongest and most obvious, to assess when there is conflict and when there is no. A law that overwhelms the body with declarations and information from such a long list of debtors that either they will not be able to check anyone, or they will have to check randomly. A law that quickly prohibits and impounds, but slowly and painfully takes away property. A law which, in that special part of countering corruption, which also gives its name, where the SRS is used, operational and search activities and other related to the detection or investigation of crimes, depends entirely on the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, which Mr. Tsatsarov heads over the last seven years. As a MP and as a citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria, I do not think that despite the efforts made in the field of fighting corruption, our country has achieved a satisfactory result. Therefore, changes are needed, some of them have been proposed in the National Assembly's Law. Unfortunately, such ones are not available to us today, and that is why yesterday at its meeting, the BSP parliamentary group decided to vote against the proposed candidates. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Mareshki, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u18	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable candidates Mr. Naydenov and Mr. Tsatsarov! Mr. Zarkov, I listened very carefully to your speech, otherwise very well prepared and very well represented by you as a good speaker. But who wrote it, and you didn't think that a small fact makes it absolutely meaningless, namely that at the moment, because of the announcement of the MPs from "Ataka" as independent and non-participant in the ruling majority, it does not have 121 MPs, that is, there is no majority in parliament. This gives a huge chance to the so-called opposition, which we see in your face that once again abdicates the important issues in Bulgaria to actively participate in this process and between two worthy candidates to choose one of the two, without saying which one is better, naturally. Otherwise, the well-written speech is incorrect because there is no majority that surpasses the rest of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Zarkov, I disagree with two things you have said. Firstly, regarding the debate in which you return us to the adoption of the Law on Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. It was then decided that Parliament was the body to elect the President of the Commission. This makes perfect sense in view of the fact that we are a republic with parliamentary rule, not a presidential republic. Probably, if we were a presidential republic, he'd be appointed by the president, but we're not. It makes sense to think, perhaps when the Law is amended in the future, whether the members, or part of the members, can possibly be referred to by the President as examples of other bodies we have, but the President in any case in a republic with parliamentary rule is logical to be elected by the National Assembly. Secondly, regarding the fact that the vote is institutional. There is no way that the vote is institutional. It is institutional when the Law is adopted and when it is determined how it is constructed. The vote is personal right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Zarkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable replicators! Mr. Mareshki, I'm glad you liked my speech, but I'm not sure you paid enough attention to the main part of it, namely that it is thought, thought and acted politically according to a group. It does not matter what the BSP candidate will say, what his concept will be, how it will be realized, as the groups will support the relevant candidates according to the political decision they have taken. Why this is not right? so I reply to Mr. Mitev because Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary government. Yes, in which according to the Constitution acts its division of authorities. This committee, the way it operates, puts it in the sphere of executive power. If you look at the way it was and others similar to it, constructed in the old days, there was a constant balance for different authorities to have influence there. It was mainly, for a longer time, the prime minister elects the president, the president elects a member, the parliament chooses one, two or three members depending on it. Now it has been chosen by parliament for one simple reason: to discharge the executive power of this responsibility. We propose and will continue to insist that there is a mid-section between the executive having an attitude, and that these are not the ones who will be checked, responsible for choosing the one who will check them. And this constitutional figure is the president. According to our Constitution, he can appoint senior officials. As for what are the majors and whether it can be gathered 121 or more, the vote will soon show, as well as the protection of your candidate shows.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Markov, for a statement. Next up is Mr. Mareshki and Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I had no intention of speaking, as the item on the agenda is personal "to choose one person as chairman of a committee." I will vote, of course, for Mr. Tsatsarov. I'm saying "successfully" because you can't be a successful Attorney General for so many years, and you can't run a committee. But I am speaking about the words that Krum Zarkov said, whom I respect, he knows, we talk in the towers often, on the topics he took up. They're out of the personal question. We went in the direction of any authority and in the direction of the state of the defense system in our country. And I can't help but say that you're right that there are problems in the defense system in our country. She's boiling with scandals. I am not a big fan in the beginning of the commissioning, over a hundred are in Bulgaria, which duplicate the activities of the ministries. If you open the Constitution, you will see that the domestic policy of the country, as well as the foreign policy, of course, i.e. the fight against crime, is carried out by the government. Well, it's said in the Constitution that there may be other government bodies, but we've done over 100. Some of these committees are currently working with an expired mandate, but, anyway, that is the law. The big problem today in Bulgaria's justice system are the incredible scandals at the top of this protection system. It is appalling, and no one has thought in this Grand National Assembly, I have remained here last, only that the time will come, 30 years of democracy, 30 years since that 14 December, when we brought down a member first, so that you too could be a socialist party, to have a PES boss, Mrs. Ninova is the Vice-President of the World Socialist International, to bring him here to a meeting of such a high authority as the Supreme Judicial Council 10 hours to be broadcast on television, horny, hating judges to speak to prosecutors and they to answer them. Since we are always talking about Brussels and the European Court of Justice, in which country is such a miracle 10 hours on television? And the voters say, Mr. Markov, I was in Montana yesterday, the other day in Kyustendil, what are those guys doing? The Supreme Judicial Council is the Supreme Judicial Council. You can imagine in people's eyes how far our justice system has come. And an occasion from your speech I take to propose on a good day for Bulgarian democracy, 30 years of this transition, the Presidential Council to consider whether we should have a debate here about the state of the judiciary. And you said very correctly in your jacket that we are a parliamentary republic, I put a comma, we are not judicial. And when we see that the judiciary goes outside the territory of the independent judiciary and politicizes society, we are obliged as a parliament to come up with a resolution. See the paradox: Grand National Assembly, negotiations are taking place BSP - I am in the contact group of the SDS, against me are Sasho Tomov, Sonya Mladenova and Yanaki Stoilov, with whom we are friends. We depoliticize this is far before the new constitution, depoliticize the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor General, we make Chief Prosecutor Gunev, President of the Supreme Court Mr. Lozanchev, remove 16 Supreme Judges, notice, good judges We uploaded 16 non-party judges from the Third Civil Division of the City Court directly to the Supreme. I've seen Ivan Grigorov at rallies, and I've seen Rumen Yankov, but they've never allowed themselves as the current chairman of the Supreme Court political dithermbi. The Supreme Court of Cassation has become a political party and serves the interests of the party Yes, Bulgaria is not sure that it works for the interests of Bulgaria. How can he allow himself to be president of the Supreme Court of Cassation to say that he will investigate the prime minister, today Borisov, tomorrow could be Ninova, that he will investigate the chief prosecutor!? Who are you, mister? You're depoliticized and you're gonna get your shit together! What do you mean, they should be blamed?! Well, you're gonna sue them, aren't you?! Are you going to sue them or are you going to be a witness in the case? And we keep our mouths shut in Parliament. So how do you want to fight corruption? How is it possible for the Helsinki Committee of Soros to award judges and the awarded judge to take an official note and release prisoners?! A Helsinki committee to watch the cleanliness of toilets, to watch cockroaches and not to worry about who's better and worse than those in prison! [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by GERB and OP.]] So I suggest that we have a debate in which to say: firstly, that we are a parliamentary republic, not a judicial republic, unless we decide that we are judicial, we have MPs here, we have to get used to it, we have to become judicial, and we have to leave from where, I see what nice people around the country, I want to go, and it rules Lozanne Panov and so on. What is happening is unacceptable, and from this tribune it must be heard: Come to yourself, Mr. President of the Supreme Court! I respect you! " - And the future Attorney General will not think they're good for advisors. It's acting against everyone, and it's acting against us. And it is very unfortunate at the 30th year of democracy that we are silent and the Head of State is now looking to convene debates, he is right to convene, for possible amendments to the Constitution and the convening of a Grand National Assembly, because he, under the Constitution, can decide and submit a proposal for Great. But let's not just focus on the prosecution, let's see what court and what justice system we have right now. To read political lectures, to make political messages... I say read 'em 'cause somebody writes 'em to 'em. And here, on this subject, we must unite. We are a parliamentary republic! 1990. 92 percent of the Bulgarians elected a parliamentary republic, not presidential, not government, not non-governmental and not judicial! God save Bulgaria, if that's how we're gonna do it! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] PRESENT TSveta KARAYANCHEVA: Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Here's a line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u25	Dear Mr. Markov, you are making a mistake in opposing the prosecution's court. There is no contradiction as is the prosecution, and so is the court. But you are right that there is one person in the Supreme Court of Cassation, and the President himself, who is trying to politicize and create another person, another impression of the court! It is true that there are separate magistrates and judges in the country who are caught in this network of NGOs, but it is not only the issue of NGOs, the point is that there are other, much higher and important masters that you miss. It is not the problem that at the Supreme Judicial Council two or three of the judges' quota were on the other side and voted contraryly and that there was a severe and complex debate inside. The problem is that the whole society and we, including analysts and all the scientists, and many people in Bulgaria, and journalists made this person we are talking about, we all know who he is, judge number one! No such thing, no judge number one in Bulgaria. And that's where it comes from, Mr. Markov, this contradiction and that contradiction of yours, I don't think it's misunderstanding, but opposition to court and prosecution. Another time I have said it from the stands in my town of Plovdiv came out a single person in support and there were attempts for poo because these are poos against the judiciary, gentle revolutions, as we witness in other spheres, in countries, including Bulgaria. So you're not right to talk about a contradiction between a court and a prosecutor, between judges and prosecutors. The contradiction is on another basis, it is idea, it is very big and it is the same as in our entire society.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? There will be. Here you go, Mr. Markov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u27	I'm far from separating judges and prosecutors. They divided into the Supreme Judicial Council in an outrageous way: 10 hours they were broadcast on television to collapse before the eyes of the whole of Bulgaria the authority of the judiciary and to collapse the authority of Bulgaria outside! No major investors will come, despite the good government management, despite the good credit rating and despite the economic growth third in the EU after Hungary and Poland for 2018, because they will not ask the Venice Commission about the state of the judiciary in Bulgaria, but they have their spies, and they will ask Hans, the boss of And he asks him after this: "How is the property in Bulgaria, is it protected by the court?" and he will say: "They imposed a moratorium on private property. The Grand National Assembly accepted that the king had properties, the Constitutional Court adopted, now a democratic court decided on the basis of claims of the executive authority........................ the King and Prime Minister of Bulgaria cannot defend itself. So how will big investors come, how will they come!? This is a big problem for the judiciary. I'm not the one who separates someone, they separate in an ugly way, and they forget themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u29	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable candidates Simeonov and Tsatsarov! Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for making a duplicate for reminding me of another mistake in your speech, which practically shows the way of thinking and acting and your formation, namely your proposal for the Commission's chief to be elected by the President. If you really wanted to change something, you would have come to the much more logical conclusion to make a proposal for the Commission's chief to choose, for example, two thirds, but from parliament. Because, unfortunately, it sounds very sweet and nice that once elected, the President becomes president of all Bulgarians, but I have no feeling to date that he is the president of anyone other than BSP. And the possible decision to elect the Commission chief would be much worse than to be elected by parliament, but perhaps the better solution is to choose by a larger majority of parliament. Otherwise, we of the Vole are proud that we have found the strength, the courage to point out a worthy candidate, brave also in itself, an honest and professional, for this position and, in fact, through our action, to make a competition, really qualitative, between two strong candidates and to give both the public and the MPs the opportunity to give their opinion and ultimately to choose one person to do the job. And at that moment you did not find the strength in yourself to find such a person in your midst. I would just like to point out to you: at the beginning of this National Assembly, when for the election of the Supreme Judicial Council you were not sure that the majority was a majority and it chose them, but on the contrary, you entered this exercise, found your quota and protected your candidates. So with this statement do not tarnish this otherwise good procedure, which was carried out both with the hearing and at all with the presence of two strong candidates, but find strength within yourself however which one of you likes more because of what you find from their presentation for you and support one or both applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Simeonov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u31	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable gentlemen Naydenov and Tsatsarov! My speech will be brief and pragmatic. Both candidates are valuable and valuable people, but I'm only gonna go with one. I've known Mr. Tsatsarov since 2002. From my service in the Plovdiv region. Mr. Tsatsarov is a brilliant lawyer, a great intellect and erudite. Based on the knowledge, skills and experience he has acquired over all these 27 years, occupying different services as a judge at different levels and an extremely successful mandate as the country's chief prosecutor, we believe that it would be most useful for the position of KKCONPI's chairman. Our parliamentary group will vote for Mr. Tsatsarov and support his candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable candidates! Two years ago, the Anti-Corruption Commission was established and illegally acquired property was seized. If we ask someone outside of this room today what KKCONPI connects to, I am sure that most people will say: "With the illegally acquired terrace of its President Plamen Georgiev, it turns out that the person who is empowered to steal illegally acquired property turns out to be one. So what's next?! For a reward, the Prime Minister himself made him a consul in Spain! Does this look like the fight against corruption and the seizure of illegally acquired property to you? No. This seems to be stimulating, covering and rewarding with corruption posts. In two years, the Commission has demonstrated its inefficiency. Mr. Tsatsarov said at the hearing that he would try to wake her up. We believe he'll make every professional effort he's capable of. But Mr. Tsatsarov, this committee is not asleep she was born dead. It is because there are no investigative functions.. has no jurisdiction under the Criminal Code, does not deal with the investigation of corruption.. so created the majority. She deals with administrative procedures for conflict of interest and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and from there everything goes to the prosecution. For countering corruption, it is only a title, in the essence of its work there is no fight against corruption. And do you remember why, then, colleagues, you justified that there were no investigative functions in the fight against corruption? Because there was no definition of corruption in the Penal Code if we had to go back two years when we adopted this law. There are two allegations in the public domain. The first is: there is no alternative to GERB and the ruling majority. There's an alternative. On this issue, we proposed two years ago with our proposal another law, a law on another structure, functions and a way of choosing the management of the CONPI. You didn't accept it. Now we've brought it back into the register, and we'll probably be watching it soon. We focused on the fact that the President proposed that the President be elected by the BSP for Bulgaria. This is important, I will also focus on this, but more importantly, we offer other functions, another structure, another way of functioning this committee, which will lead to a real result in the fight against corruption, and not to formal submission of declarations, verification of documents, bureaucratics and administrative procedures. But since the greatest publicity has acquired our proposal for a presidential election, I would like to focus on that. Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly demonstrated, you have demonstrated mandate thinking. The topic of corruption is not to be thought in terms of mandates, it should be thought long-term and visionary. Now President Rumen Radev is supported by BSP, the next term, the next term could be another person, supported by another party. We are proposing, in principle, a solution to the matter and it is not a presidential republic, but a real functioning of the principle of separation of authorities and of mutual control between executive, legislative, judicial, president and everyone in the Constitution has designated powers. It is not a precedent for the President to have a representative in any state body, although this committee is not a state authority. He has his representatives, as you know, in other bodies and he's broadcasting his quota, and you're not going in the direction that we want a presidential republic. We want a real separation of powers and mutual control. You can't convince us that we, who choose a chairman who checks us for corruption, will not be somewhat dependent on us and will not comply with our decisions with those who can always raise it and can always bring it down. This is a basic understanding of the work of this body and is not limited to personal assessments. And then you didn't accept our proposals, I think that the second time we proposed this law, you wouldn't accept it, but it was wise to hear the remarks even of the candidates themselves. We are talking about Mr. Tsatsarov because, obviously with the majority of GERB, the United Patriarchs and the support of the DPS he will be the new Chairman of the CONPI. During the hearing Mr. Tsatsarov said that the law is imperfect and that he has his own vision of changes which, of course, he can not submit to the legislative initiative, but we can. Well, some of these changes we've offered you for the second time and we hope you'll have a reasonable look at them this time. The second thing that suggests against BSP is: BSP does not have a candidate. If they wanted a fight, if they wanted a race, they would have proposed a candidate. Dear Members of Parliament, it would have been supreme political hypocrisy to stand before you and say: "We do not recognise this law, we do not recognise this committee because it is stillborn, it has no functions and time has proved that it is not fighting corruption, we do not recognise the procedure by which the President is elected by the addicts, by his checks. And in all of these: "We do not recognize it and will not participate in this talk, say: "Well, here we offer a chairman!" Where do you see any logic or sanity in such a situation? Well, that is why we are not proposing a chairman and, the second, said colleagues: it is obvious that a candidate raised by the majority with the support of the DPS will be elected. That's BSP's position. And for all these reasons, we will not support either candidate. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u35	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Ninova, honourable candidates! You are right, Mrs. Ninova, that President Radev was elected is now mentioned by the BSP, but I would not be surprised if in the next term we see him in many municipalities, he is a candidate of GERB, but this does not make him even more possible as representing the institution to appoint the head of KKCONPI. Once again, if this debate is ever raised, I would suggest that we get to the option of a wider majority, although I would still have to remind you that if the majority had to be of two thirds now, I am sure that, as the candidates of the SJC were elected, you would support the applications. And one more thing you're saying that KKCONPI has hardly ever worked before. Yes, most likely the PR of this institution does not work well and does not present us with all the facts, but it is not the work of this institution to be on the media every day and to tell us what it is doing, but on the contrary we are looking for efficiency. From the information we have, however, a very serious activity has been done there in recent years, although it has not become public. But suppose we really accept your thesis or the support of the thesis that the institution is asleep and that it hasn't done anything, but what has the presidency done? And if President Radev is also asleep and the Presidency is asleep, to date, except for the beginning of the mandate, in which several councils were actively made until the deal for the planes was passed and he was the active, most active person in this deal, we now see how much time for so up-to-date topics this council is not included. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. Do we have to shut down the presidential institution because it's not effective right now and it's not doing its job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u36	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line, Mr. Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u37	Dear Cornelia, I say respectable because you know I respect you, you have shown great courage and you have opposed the PES against this monster Istanbul Convention, the GREVIO Committee and such idiocy. There is only one thing I would like to say to you in view of your claims that it is not good to choose a person who performs some control functions, including on the MPs, and it is elected by the MPs. A comparatively legal example is interesting for the entire audience. Just one month ago, the Hungarian Parliament, with a two-thirds qualified majority, is like this under the Hungarian Constitution, elected Mr Peter Polt as Hungarian Prosecutor General for nine years. So, there are developed democracies, member states in the European Union, where even Chief Prosecutor Peter Polt, our chief prosecutor, was visiting him last year, is elected with two thirds of the National Assembly. Now the majority of Orban chooses it. Even though he rules well, it won't last forever, one time he'll choose another. It is true that the prosecution is not part of the judiciary there. It was the great legislator's mistake of putting her in the judiciary, but it was because the rallies were running with posters: a court and a prosecutor's office, and we put them in the same power. So Hungary's chief prosecutor is even elected by a two-thirds majority, and he is on top of the crown by investigative and human rights authorities in Hungary by Parliament and there is no problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Third line? I can't see. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u39	To tell you the truth, Mr. Mareshki was having a hard time following the sequence of thought and at all what he wanted to say, but let's just say I'm not perceptive. From what I understand, he calls for the election of such bodies by a two-thirds majority in parliament. Now to remind those who forgot when we chose the SJC with two thirds, what followed for us? I am responsible for the BSP for Bulgaria and I would like to say for us what followed: the canonade of accusations that we have entered into an agreement with the government in order to choose our members in the SJC. When there are two thirds of the majority and we meet the requirements of the Law, we participate in such a choice and enter into agreement with the government. When we say otherwise, it means that we don't know anything about law and shouldn't do it the way BSP offers it. There is a popular expression for this, and it is an attitude: why are you wearing a hat, why are you without a hat? In your view, no matter what the opposition does, it's bad. So, on the same subject, it's always bad. That's my answer, Mr. Mareshki, for the two thirds. As for the presidential institution and your proposal there to take action, I have only one answer: read this Constitution, Mr. Mareshki! It says what the president can do, and he has very limited powers. Do not expect impossible things from him or those that the Constitution does not assign to him. If he does something like that, you're gonna jump right into asking for impeachment, so don't ask the president to rule, determine the judiciary and so on. He is fulfilling his constitutional powers, and I hope that he will do so to the end. Mr. Markov, there are various practices and you know it very well for the election of the Prosecutor General, for a place of the Prosecutor's Office or outside the judiciary, in the executive power. There are at least 6 different practices in Europe and we should not mechanically transport a ready model from there to the Bulgarian reality, but we should judge on the basis of our Constitution, laws and so on how to make the work of the Prosecutor's Office more effective. We have our vision, despite eternal talk, that there is no alternative that BSP offers nothing. We have proposed it and it is to the banks, it says: changes to the Law on the Judiciary. We believe that the only independent body capable of controlling acts of the Attorney General is the court. You're suggesting that there should be an independent prosecutor in charge of the Attorney General. Here there will be an argument whether this is constitutional, whether it is not, there will be different opinions. The only good thing about this is that we're opening up a conversation about the prosecution's place, about the efficiency of the judiciary, that there are different proposals, and I hope there is reason. Of these many different proposals to choose the best for one purpose, people should know that there is justice in the state and that the one who has broken the law has received what he deserves. If this goal unites us, we will find the solution. If we get past the target, we'll keep going the same way. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u40	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Speaking, Mr. Atanasov. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "I want the word. "]] You made Mrs. Ninova's line and she answered your line, so there's no way. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you are, but not on the subject, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u41	Yeah, of course it won't be about that. I, thank God, follow what's happening, and it's not so hard for me to follow even the most confused speech and the most confused thought. The only thing I understand is that Mrs. Nino has a hard time following the thoughts of the people who are speaking. [[(Replyes from BSP for Bulgaria]] She can only come out and read a pre-prepared speech. This is not on the subject, I'm going to ask you for a little more upbringing and attention to what I have to say. The other thing I found out is that it's actually okay to make an agreement when we have an interest in raising our grant even with people who currently do not enjoy the highest rating in society. We can enter into agreement with the devil when we have a close party interest, but when we have to protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens when we have to defend the law, we only explain how we do not have powers. The president has no authority. Well, if you didn't have the authority, why did you ask me to talk about the planes? What about the other topics in society about the dirty air? I was sitting at a traffic light for 50 minutes today, and I heard that your colleagues were following me into the hall, too, sitting at the traffic lights for an hour. Now, with the dirty air, we will punish the people who are once punished to be poor and miserable, we must burn what is most daily to them, what they find in the streets to warm up and punish them, and not punish those who have made them poor, but not punish those who so organized the movement, that practically all of Sofia in the morning sits for one hour and does not work, throws and spews substances that poison the sophians for these people, we will not put forward an offer of charge, but for the small man who has nothing to do anyway, and even if we fine him, we have nothing to get him, that is for him we can now make a punishment. Where is your overrated president here to speak on this subject, too? Is it people's fault or those who created the organization? Listen very carefully to who says what, so that you do not find it difficult to understand it, and if you do, there are people who can train you and thus be able to understand the thoughts and those of your opponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsatsarov, as fellow citizens we have known each other for more than 15 years and I can only say nice words for you, because the facts confirm it when you were President of the District Court of Plovdiv, he was a leader in the country, and then you became a very good Prosecutor General. Hence, my recommendation is as follows: the expectations for you will be extremely high and my request is to start checking from your hometown and there you will find quite interesting things, not to deal with the little one and finally catch the bigger fish. The Romans say: aquila non capit muscas - the eagle does not catch flies, so deal with slightly larger players who, by the way, build whole neighborhoods in Plovdiv - not barbecues, not illegal terraces, but whole neighborhoods! The last thing I will say is that our parliamentary group will definitely support you in your choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I can't see. Colleagues, any other speeches? Somebody raise your hand? Mr. Notev and Mr. Rashidov want a statement, okay. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u45	Thank you, Madam President, you're very kind today. You've given me the floor. I take the floor as a member of the Parliamentary Anti-Corruption Commission, as the President and the other Vice-President are absent from the House today. I would like to say a few words because there have been very serious accusations about the Commission's work so far. As someone who basically knows the work of this committee, I must tell you that there was no dream in it. In this committee there are representatives of all parliamentary groups, it is parietal and of all political forces there are two people, and BSP has a vice-president. All of us on this committee have not once come to an argument or political umbrella over anyone. On the first day, we vowed that there was no signal received from this committee not to proceed to KPCONPI and hence to the prosecution. We have vowed that even if our colleagues or ourselves enter its scope, the trash can will not go to the signal, and for the second year this is being performed. Colleagues are in the room, they can confirm it and we can see, Mr. Nedyalkov, that this is being done. Secondly, as early as the first year after the adoption of the Law from the activities of the KKCONPI, when the declarations of conformity were adopted, seven thousand people from the higher levels of power fell within this scope, as early as the first inspection, this committee, which has magnificent professionals and professionals from the NRA, the Court of Auditors, the former one, and the DANS, detected 700 outstanding declarations. Incorrect declarations had 10% of the higher floors, including ministers, deputy ministers, agency heads, mayors, municipal council presidents, chief architects, hospital chiefs, i.e. from the entire range of government, notice, from all political forces from bottom to top, fall under the blows of the law! You have witnessed that there were arrested mayors both by GERB and BSP, and other such senior officials who are responsible for the first year. For the first year, more than 13 million properties were seized, and 30 million claims were prepared to be seized. The other day at the hearing Mr. Tsatsarov, who very well monitored the work of KKCONPI and followed her during that period, said that at the moment more than 3 billion had been seized. lv. property, and its owners are waiting for appropriate court procedures for which you all read that they are starting. You can't say that KKCONPI slept! Another point is that in time a law is checked with the activity itself. I was very pleased not that Mr. Tsatsarov is a Plovdivcanin, but that he made a serious analysis of the activity so far and gave proposals for improvement of this law. Just one fact so I don't list everything he's talking about. For example, we have decided that under the scope of the Law there will be six thousand people municipal councilors and this is a solution, that is, 13 thousand becomes those we will observe. He very well said that perhaps you should consider the smallest municipalities, first, where the councillors are few and, secondly, do not have resources that can be the subject of an attack on illegal activities. Should the small municipalities stay, or should there be only those big ones with big resources? That is, the improvement of the Law that he is talking about is now absolutely necessary to change on the basis of its action so far. As for your insistence, from the first moment you did not know how the Law would work, but you were against it in principle. You didn't know which was more correct..... whether Parliament with all its control to broadcast the leaders of the Commission or the President?! The President also vetoed this law, i.e. from the first day you did not want such a law to work or if it started to work under the control of the President, under the control of Positano. 20, because you wanted BSP to choose the management of this body. I will tell you why: behind these three billion seized assets are large oligarchs of the criminal transition, which are not enough that they have privatized, embezzled or acquired legally, there are procedures that prove how, but still continue to commit crimes. There are large oligarchs currently in Bulgaria's custody, which are facing cases of these three billion, which we are talking about. I'm not saying that all of you from BSP, both young and elderly, have participated in these processes and will not say it. But I'm going to say, how come all these oligarchs came from BSP, from your ranks? Over the years, it has been proven by the people who describe these processes that your party is dependent on them, so don't put party interests in something so important when it comes to fighting corruption again. The European Commission noted that the beginnings of this struggle are already giving results. I personally don't know how privatization was done, but if your leader were here, you could ask him and he would explain very well how it happened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Notev, come in for a statement, and then there's Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to return to the particular point that we are discussing and on which we are about to take a decision. We are talking about the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, that is, the procedure under which we are moving is laid down in a law which has already been voted by the National Assembly, a law which is binding on us. In this procedure, I and a group of Members of the National Assembly have signed as importers of Mr. Tsatsarov's proposal for consideration as Chairman of this institution. Today's debate has convinced me of the correctness of our judgment. I will try to explain to you why and call you to vote for this candidate. The Latin maxim says so: "Bad law, but law! " I have noted that we are moving by law in a procedure that we do not look at and change today. Some of the speakers have brought us back to the days of the Grand National Assembly and the principles laid down in the Constitution. Others returned to the results of the Commission's work under the chairmanship of the President, who released the place for which Mr. Tsatsarov applied. The criticism of the Law, the criticism of the Commission's work, of course, has its reasons. In this criticism and in its foundation, I find an argument for supporting Mr. Tsatsarov's candidacy and to dwell on his choice. Why? I will not talk about the professional qualities of Mr. Tsatsarov, but I will say this. In the context of a new and imperfect, to put it mildly, let us not give a stronger assessment, Law, of course, that we must allow and make sure that the head of the institution is one of the most sacred, experienced lawyers who could cover this activity and properly direct it. There is nothing more frightening than that under a bad Law its instruments should be placed in a person who has no experience, has no opportunities to think, realize and correctly apply the instruments that have such severe consequences for Bulgarian citizens if the weapon is directed incorrectly. This was our consideration when we broadcast the concept and intentions of Mr. Tsatsarov, and we were convinced that the choice is right that we can trust this choice. It has been said that this concept is intended to propose and examine amendments and to make it clear that it cannot be introduced to these amendments, as has been emphasised by the speakers, but to participate in these corrections, in these improvements to laws that would lead to the removal of all our doubts and criticism of the Commission's work, respectively, to the legal acts that are relevant to it. I think that in our face Mr. Tsatsarov will have support in examining changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on the Judiciary and the special law, which contains a very complex substantive and procedural framework concerning the Commission, whose supervisor we are discussing today. I take the opportunity to stress and point out that the other candidate Mr. Naydenov has his merits, has his qualities as a lawyer. That's for sure. Here we give priority to the administrative experience of the current and current Prosecutor General of the Republic. We believe that this particular foundation, this strong hand, is necessary in order to bring order to the matter at issue, in the sphere of public life at issue. In addition, for all these considerations, I call on you to support, I also call on my fellow Members to the left, to the extent that I understand, and their views on the settlement of this matter as forthcoming changes, such as changes that are necessary, that is, a joint effort in the work of the MEPs on the left and the future President of the Commission, which could be proposed to society. So I understand, Mr. Zarkov, by listening carefully to your position. And since you like to read records and transcripts, which I am very respectfully reporting, you can get to know my opinion and opinion in the adoption of the Law. I do not give way to any criticism I have made to this law, but today we must elect a President, not to adopt rules or changes contained in your proposal and which I also find justified, and we are about to comment on them and give our vote on their discussion. Thanks for the big debate. Once again, I call on this House to support a candidacy which we consider worthy and promising of statehood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Rashidov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u49	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'm not a lawyer, and I'll be very brief. It will be short and I have to inform you that I have never been a minister for eight years, we have not worked as well as partners with the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, as we worked during the time of Mr. Tsatsarov, especially when it concerned the topics of illegal trafficking of cultural values for counterfeits, where the prosecution in his person was actively involved. Today, it is good to avoid political rhetoric because, firstly, we divert the subject, and, secondly, it does not work for the authority of Parliament or for the authority of the future President of the Commission. It's about Mr. Tsatsarov's choice of head of KKCONPI. I would only tell you one thing: we are all witnesses of Mr. Tsatsarov's professional qualities as far as I can see, there is no division in this House. To be honest, we have to say that while he was the Prosecutor General, he demonstrated overparty and raised the bar and authority of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office very high. When it comes to his words that he needs to wake up KKCONPI, we need to understand what a metaphor is and why it is sometimes used. Mr. Tsatsarov's wish is to make from this very necessary committee a party committee and to restore the authority of this committee as it should be. Colleagues, I will vote for Mr. Tsatsarov and if you want to have a working body, do so yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u51	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Naydenov and Tsatsarov! I am pleased that BSP colleagues, although forced to leave the Chamber and again monitor political life as viewers, have returned to it so that they can participate openly in the debate, because we have not once observed this irresponsible position when something important is happening in the country, they simply leave this House and are missing for months. [[Strong noise, lines and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm looking at the BSP, not the BSP! Believe me! I don't want to see you... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Trust me. Don't replicate me from the gym. There are 900,000 people behind you who trusted you... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u52	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u53	...and expect from you responsible positions in this room. You haven't found the strength to propose a candidate, and you claim that corruption is the most important thing for you. Those who, in fact, once again showed the Bulgarian state who is the real opposition of the entire political old system, are we of the Vola and are here to defend the interests of the Bulgarian people. It's only natural that you can't understand us, because in fact you're only defending your own party interest. That's what came out. You yourself have listed how many votes... Then you have no problem getting into agreements and making the right decisions for you. You didn't understand when your people said they wanted BGN 1. a subsidy and you voted 8 leva. subsidy. [[Noise and lines.]] We do not expect you to understand its representatives, who in fact in the National Assembly are us from the Volition. I wish success to both candidates, and although the debate has become quite distorted and hardly anything has been said about your applications, I believe that whoever of them becomes Chairman of the KKCONPI will really make sense of this institution and will find the strength to fight corruption in Bulgaria because it is a really difficult problem for the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u54	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilenski. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Ms. Taskova, since I am observing you that for some time you have fixed yourself on the activities of the BSP parliamentary group, on how many people and when they are in the Chamber, I would advise you: as Vice-President of your parliamentary group to concentrate on your participation in the parliamentary life. And when you offer a minimum pension of 300 BGN, it is good to be all in the gym, not seven people. Five to be absent, and the proposal not to pass by four votes, and then from this stand to say that BSP or someone else is guilty that the minimum pension is not 300 BGN. Concentrate on what you promise to do, because if last week your parliamentary group was in plenary and not in the couloirs and you had supported your own proposal, which the parliamentary group of BSP supported you with 78 MPs of 79 possible, today the minimum pension of Bulgarian pensioners would be 300 BGN. Don't, when you're on TV and media everywhere else, speculate with the participation of BSP in parliamentary life and politics at all. Focus on your group of 12 people when you make suggestions to protect them, because otherwise you leave the wrong impression to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u57	I was wondering who else hasn't spoken? It was Tasko Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Hamid, thank you for keeping track of when I speak and when I don't speak. I'm glad. Ms. Taskova, in my opinion, what we are discussing right now, and what would be the normal behaviour of the parliamentary groups, naturally, if done sincerely, is for each parliamentary group to come out and defend its candidate. So far, what we have heard from the will is that you comment on what we do, how we do it, if we do anything, if we vote, if we don't vote, if we don't have any proposals, or if we don't have any. Ms. Taskova, this is the problem of our parliamentary group. We solve these problems. From you, because we have to make an informed choice, I expected from both the President of your parliamentary group and from you as Vice-President, to come out and protect your candidacy, to prove to us that it is better than the other. The statement: The person who of both will come will be very good at it, somehow questioning the sincerity and seriousness of your proposal. Whether this is still not done to make a mimicre of racing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u60	Mrs. Chairman! I thank all those who gave me lines to give me the opportunity to tell you that again you do not understand what we want to say to you because we are the representatives of the Bulgarian people. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Your people said, "One lev grant. " You voted 8 levs. a subsidy and we understand again why you can't hear Volya and Mr. Mareshki as representatives of the Bulgarian people. You can't claim to be an opposition or an alternative after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. Colleagues, I will put to the vote draft decisions in alphabetical order of candidates: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 5 in relation to Art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Simeon Georgiev Naydenov as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Vote 190 MPs: 12, against 42, abstention 136. The offer is not accepted. I put the second vote to the vote: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 5 in relation to Art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegal Property HAS DECIDED He elected Sotir Stefanov Tsatsarov as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Vote 198 MPs: 165, against 30, abstention 3. The proposal was adopted by the National Assembly to elect Sotir Stefanov Tsatsarov as Chairman of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property by 165 votes in favour. Congratulations, Mr. Tsatsarov. We wish you luck. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, we continue with the next item on today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX. Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs were importing on 28 February 2019. He was accepted at the first vote on 29 March 2019. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I present to your attention the Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 954-01-11, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 28 February 2019, adopted at the first vote on 29 March 2019. The draft for the second vote. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u63	Please declare a vote on the name of the Law. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In The Court of Justice shall be responsible for the existence of unfair clauses in a contract concluded with a consumer. It provides the parties with the opportunity to comment on these issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u65	Please declare a vote on the proposal in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u66	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A sentence two is created: "The cases initiated shall be regarded as civil according to the order of the general claim process.'
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u67	Please declare the vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u68	By option I and option II of § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by Where the claim derives from a contract concluded with a consumer, the application shall be accompanied by the contract, if in writing, together with all its annexes and amendments, and the applicable general terms and conditions, if any.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u69	Please declare a vote on the version of the Commission for § 1, which becomes § 3. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u70	By option I and option II of § 2 by importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and 2, and c. Three is withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and shall propose the following version of § 2 which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 411 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 a new sentence is created second: a request against a user shall be submitted to the court in whose area its current address is located and in the absence of a current address on the permanent one. 2. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." the request is based on an unfair clause in a contract concluded with a consumer or there is a reasonable likelihood of doing so; b) Previous t. 3 and 4 become respectively t. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u71	I shall put to the vote the proposal under § 2 in the version of the Commission which shall become § 4. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u72	According to the text of the importer for § 3, there is a proposal of the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5. .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the word "supplied' is replaced by "one-monthly'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 after the words........................................................................................... In the event that the application is unfounded, the application may bear costs higher than those indicated in the order.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u73	I shall put to the vote the proposal in the version of the Commission for § 3, which shall become § 5. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u74	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u75	I shall put to the vote the proposal under § 4, which shall become § 6, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u76	According to § 5 of the importer there is a proposal made by the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 5, which becomes § 7. .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 415 para. 1, t. 2 is finally added and the handler has collected data that the debtor does not live at the address after consultation of the floor ownership manager, by the mayor of the respective locality or otherwise, and has certified this with an indication of the source of these data in the message.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u77	I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 5, which shall become § 7. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u78	According to § 6 of the importer there is a proposal made by the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 417 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "the municipalities and the banks" shall be replaced by "the municipalities," or an extract from the bank's books, to which the document from which the bank's claim results, together with all its annexes, including the applicable general terms and conditions. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The second sentence is created: "When the security provides a claim arising from a contract concluded with a consumer, the contract shall be applied to the application, if it is in writing, together with all its annexes, including the applicable general terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u79	Mr. Zarkov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, so far, as you have noticed, the bill has been going consensually and for its whole idea developed in many discussions and working groups implemented through the National Representative Christian Mitev and others to provide the opportunity for official inspection by the court of the irregular clauses, which are sometimes found in consumer contracts. You're all aware of this problem. I'm sure, and in your admissions very often he was the subject of a conversation. This has met support, understanding and must continue to be so. In terms of t. 2 of the text that we are looking at, which aims to provide the court in the context of a specific procedure with access to documentation by which it can carry out this inspection in a professional capacity. So times t. 2, which was also the point that existed even by importer, we have no dispute. However, we argue on this point. 1 of the proposal. Point 1 of the proposal appeared between first and second reading within the working groups. It concerns a specific hypothesis when an applicant may request a enforcement order, regardless of its price, based on a document or an extract from books establishing the claim. This applies to government offices, municipalities and banks. This is the subject of a long-standing dispute that has been fought here several times, continued to take place, passed through the Constitutional Court, continued to take place and we believe that the banks, the reasons for which to give them this privilege of easier recovery of their claims, have long since dropped out. They are in a state in which they are capable and there are many things that they can use in this code and other laws, collect and secure their loans in a way that is effective enough for them to benefit from this special provision, which I think is appropriate for municipalities and public offices. For obvious reasons, we do not need to comment here, but this privilege of banks creates a growing and severe sense of inequality for Bulgarian citizens who feel depressed by one economic and other power to which they cannot, within this specific production, protect themselves in the most adequate way. I therefore ask that the two points be put to a separate vote so that we can oppose the amendments to this point. 1, although they are also trying to find some balance in this direction. But we don't think it's enough. This issue must be discussed again, possibly tabled again as a bill and discussed, so we will abstain on this. 1 and we will support t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I take it you've made a procedural proposal. I put to the vote the two points to be voted separately. Vote 92 MPs: 87, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Members of the Parliament, I would nevertheless like to draw attention to you that, in the version of the Commission, in respect of this matter. 2 of art. 417 is given greater protection to consumers with this version, namely by adding the requirement to present the document from which the bank's claim arises, together with all its applications, including the applicable general conditions, provided that so far only and only on extracts from accounting books, in fact a term which in the case-law is interpreted inconsistently, it was possible for the bank to benefit under this accelerated recovery order. Otherwise, in principle, colleague Zarkov is absolutely right. Yes, it is. This thesis we have maintained since the last Chamber of the National Assembly that the banks have no place in the text of art. 417. Unfortunately, when we made such a proposal in this term, the then Ombudsman, Mrs Manolova, came and urged the House to vote against this proposal, it was rejected. We are ready to bring it back in and resume this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u84	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, I'm taking a line on two occasions. The first, to congratulate you on the efforts you have made under this law, not only does your name stand under many proposals that are accepted unanimously, but also the work that you have done on it. I do not agree that you mentioned Mrs. Maya Manolova, who is also one of the initiators of this bill at all and to reach even these achievements. On this occasion, however, when we opposed those amendments that you had actually proposed, we worked in another context and then we said that this is not the time to do so, but it requires a comprehensive, serious debate to finally find this text. It is obvious that the banks already have those grounds that existed two years ago, not so much to be included in this text, they need to be reviewed. I suggest we don't throw who, what, where and how he's been doing so far, but focus on getting this text out of here, because ultimately it doesn't change much with the editing that's being proposed right now, and put the debate back together so that he can find a quality solution. You know what people say about this, you've imported it, you've been subject to the pressure it creates. I don't think banks will lose much either, frankly, if this happens, a matter of legislative equipment. Just like last time we didn't come to a decision, and this time, the text appears between first and second readings. And although it has been working on this for a long time, he has still not passed that assessment at first reading in terms of philosophy and at all the idea of such a change.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, I agree with most of what you said. As you can see, we in this bill have not made a proposal to drop out precisely for this purpose and with this idea that it would not actually fall within the scope of the Bill. It would not have been subject to increased consumer protection, which follows from the letter of the European Commission and from the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Of course, however, this issue remains open. He's been lifted repeatedly. You know about the Constitutional Court's decision. You have rightly said what the opinion of Bulgarian citizens is. I also do not know a voter of any political power who is fascinated or who supports this wording, which currently exists in this text. Another question, however, is whether we will succeed in a new discussion, a new proposal, no matter who his importer will be, to collect enough and to accumulate enough support so that this change can be made this time. Otherwise, the banks have many other possibilities of art. 417 to benefit from the order of immediate execution for rapid enforcement proceedings, this is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the proposals in the version of the Commission under § 6, which shall become § 8, first, under paragraph 6. 1. Vote 89 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I'm voting on it. 2 of the same paragraph. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we will continue after the break on this bill. Before I inform you that an exhibition of children from second and third grade from the National School of Culture will be opened in the Northern lobby. The paintings of the exhibition are prepared by the children under the leadership of the famous Bulgarian artist Ivan Jahnadzhiev. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u88	Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We're done with § 6, which became § 8. Let's move on to the next offer. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u89	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev for the creation of a new paragraph. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposed by the importer option I and option II for art. 419. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... Article 419 is amended as follows: "Appeal of the order for immediate execution Art. 419. (1) The order respecting the application for immediate enforcement may be appealed by a private appeal within one month of the service of the order for enforcement. The private complaint shall be lodged together with the opposition against the order. (2) The appeal of the order for immediate enforcement shall not stop the execution. (3) The court shall revoke the order where the prerequisites of art. 418 para. 2 sentence first and para. 3 as well as where the claim is based on a clause in a contract concluded with a consumer which is contrary to the rules of law, to good manners or is unfair.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u90	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an offer for editing: Article 9 of the Commission Report on Art. 419 para. 3 words in a contract concluded with a consumer which is contrary to the rules of law, to the good manners or is unfair and is replaced by an unfair clause in a contract concluded with a consumer.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u92	Thank you. - What's the line? Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first of all, Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal for editing. Vote 89 MPs: 72, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of § 7 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 9, together with the editorial amendment that we have just approved. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u93	Paragraph 8 "Operation I and Option II" for art. 420. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 420 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall finally be added to the amount of up to one third of the amount of the debt. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The court issuing the immediate execution may suspend it without the need for the security under para. 1 where a request for suspension has been made, supported by written evidence that: 1. the claim is not due; 2. the claim shall be based on an unfair clause in a contract concluded with a consumer; 3. incorrect calculation of the amount of the claim under contract concluded with a consumer. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The definition of suspension shall be subject to immediate enforcement, irrespective of its appeal. (5) The court before which the action under art. 422, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u94	Statements? First Mr. Zarkov asked for the floor. Then Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u95	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Article 420 is one of the key texts of this bill. Even the changes in this article can be said to have launched a whole process of adoption of the Bill. This text currently states that an objection to an enforcement order does not stop enforcement, which may lead to enforcement, but subsequently prove that the opposition was justified, but the person whose property was sold under duress can no longer recover it due to various circumstances. This is also the reason why the European Commission should pay attention to Bulgaria and launch a procedure because it considers that in this case the rights of the debtor are not sufficiently protected, do not meet the standards of protection. This text is related to the text that we drew attention to a short time ago. It is about those proceedings that have been made so that the claims can be collected as quickly as possible. This speed and demand for speed can be understood, but not if it comes to extremes in which a debtor who may have been charged more debt than he really owes, to whom a variety of rights violations may have been admitted, cannot protect himself effectively because, when he reaches the relevant protection, the damage has been done. Therefore, the importer, at first reading, proposed the opposite principle, namely that the opposition to the enforcement order stopped enforcement in certain hypotheses, which was supported at first reading. We talked about this a lot at first reading, like one of the Bill's markers. Over time and the work of the working group has come to a retreat from this principle and things remain, and so far, which has led some people to comment that in the end we have made a lot of noise about this bill, many talks, many working groups, and in the end there is not much of an effect, and to express doubts as to whether the new changes that we are voting on today will satisfy the requirements of the European Commission with regard to the Bulgarian legislation. For this reason, I propose that we remain true to what we voted at first reading of the Bill and reverse the principle so that an objection stops enforcement. I also understand the arguments put forward against the fact that it will greatly delay production, which is thought to be rapid, but we must be able to put the cursor, the marker where people are both protected in their rights and to chase away the speed of the process, but not at all costs. On many opinions during the changes in 2017 this idea of speed and rapid collection has largely gone too far. Therefore, I think we should re-evaluate the work of the Working Group and the Legal Commission and return to the importing text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a proposal for editing in the text: Article 10 of the Commission Report on Art. 420, para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "When the debtor is a consumer, the collateral is equal to one third of the claim. Our motives here are as follows. If the text of § 10, as adopted by the Commission, is adopted, the scope of the provision under point (c) of paragraph 10. 1 will cover all debtors, including traders. The purpose of the amendments to the Civil Procedure Code is to enable the consumer to suspend implementation. With the proposed amendment, the suspension of execution by submitting a guarantee up to one third will apply only to a consumer. We propose that a trader who owes and wants to stop the execution should pay the entire amount as a guarantee, as is the current arrangement, as well as under the conditions of para. 2. This is what we will help to avoid creating an inter-company debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! Article 420 is actually correct to say what is the chronology of events. It is as follows: there are two options by the importer is not one. The first option provided for the appeal to suspend the execution where there was written evidence or the private complaint under art. 419 is based on the existence of an unfair clause in a contract concluded with a consumer and following the submission of a security of no greater than one third of the amount of the obligation. I mean, that was option I. Option II says, however, slightly different from what was quoted at the outset, namely in para. 1 it is said that the opposition to the order shall cease enforcement unless it is issued for the benefit of the State or the municipality, as is the case of art. 417 t. 8. That is, in all other hypotheses, if a complaint is filed, the execution shall be suspended from now on. This execution shall also be suspended in respect of the cases in which the debtor is also a consumer and in cases where the debtor is a trader. One such provision left in the corps of the Law will only result in a return to the difficulties in collecting claims between companies in Bulgaria, the notorious inter-company debt, which has not already decreased very much. With the adoption of such a proposal, this problem will come back on the agenda. I would not agree with the opinion that the proposed version of the Commission and the current editorial supplement made by Mrs Alexandrova will not meet the requirements of the European Commission and therefore the reasons contained in the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union for greater and better consumer protection. On the contrary, with all the provisions so far, which enjoy support from both the left and the right-hand side of the room, practically strengthens and increases consumer protection. It is no accident that we have recorded that the court is watching for unfair clauses in contracts as the basic principle of civil proceedings. This has to happen in both lawsuits and enforcement proceedings, in fact, in the whole course of a civil case. In the same way was the change envisaged in § 2 for access to a cassation instance in cases where we have contracts with consumers, which until now some of the courts considered to be commercial disputes and did not go to court at all. So I believe that with all the proposals that have been adopted so far and which are due to be adopted by the end of this bill, we are ensuring in full this protection, which is required of us and in the letter of the European Commission and which is also contained in the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, we must not transfer consumer protection to the trader's protection. The trader is a person who has taken greater care of his affairs, his business and therefore bears a greater degree of responsibility than the ordinary citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote, first of all, the proposals for amendments made by Mrs. Alexandrova in the Chamber. Vote 85 MPs: 70, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I am now putting to the vote the Commission's text on § 8, which becomes § 10, together with the amendments which have just been adopted. Vote 88 MPs: 75, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u101	There is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 words as well as where the collateral submitted is partially written.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u102	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 11. 90 MPs voted: 86 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u103	The Commission supports the importer's test in principle, but proposes that § 9 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u104	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u105	Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u106	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 10 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u107	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 10. Vote 88 MPs: 76 against 9, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u108	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12, in c. 1 after the word "new" to be added to the "alinea". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u109	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12 with the corresponding change, and the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13, supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u110	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 455, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "When immediate execution is accepted in respect of a user and he has submitted an objection under art. 414, the prohibition under Article 414 444, p. 7 as regards mortgaged property, the decision by which the claim for the existence of the claim is granted is dismissed at the first claim.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u111	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u112	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I am making an editorial proposal to reject § 14. That's what our motives are for. With the editing of art. 420 sufficient guarantees shall be established to suspend implementation. Where the debtor is a consumer, the court will suspend the execution when the guarantee is lodged up to one third of the obligation. In addition, the court will be able to suspend the execution if it considers in the hypothesis of art. 410 para. 2 at any time and we believe that the proposal for editing of Mr. Mitev under art. 445 is not necessary. The debtor also submitted to the creditor as collateral against the loan granted to him his only residence. If he had not provided proper collateral, he would not have received a loan of this amount. If the borrower knows that in the event of a default of a certain number of contributions can delay the execution over time, it will create a bad sign for debtors. A large part of the debtors in the enforcement proceedings in this situation will object only and only, motivated by the idea that they will thus earn time and the amount at the same time of the obligation will grow. With the proposed version, we believe that the balance between creditors and debtors and the balance between banks and borrowers will be impaired. In the GPC, except for the possibility of stopping under art. 420 has another exceptional protection within the execution procedure, namely at the request of the debtor to stop the execution in accordance with art. 454 on payment of 20 percent of the debt. That is why we believe that the proposed version of art. 445 is not necessary and is excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u113	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Mr. Mitev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! I will present the reasons for this proposal, which has been adopted by the Commission true, after long and long debates. It is a proposal from judges from the Sofia District Court, which was recognized by me, was made within the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. His motives are as follows. The letter of the European Commission and the caselaw of the Court of Justice of the European Union in civil matters provides that the risk of loss of housing before an assessment of compliance with consumer protection legislation is particularly problematic in the context of what is guaranteed in art. 7 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The right to privacy to address this danger in relations between economically unequal parties should be provided for protection in the framework of the executive process, and the fact that the debtor's only residence should be an obstacle to enforcement until the entry into force of a judicial act has been recognised. Temporary non-secretability will not prevent the taking of collateral and other accompanying actions outside the cashing of the property. I do not share here the position expressed by the honourable Mrs. Alexandrova that the debtor or he will not be disciplined in this way, particularly by the change adopted in one of the previous paragraphs, by which we complement the mandatory props of the order for execution and which will already state that if the debtor objects unduly to the claim, he will be charged with additional costs as a result of rejecting his objection in court. So I believe that this kind of chicanery will not come to this extent, as no one would ultimately want to bear greater costs than necessary, especially in the prospect that his claim would prove unfounded. Moreover, it is clear in the Commission's version that we will not wait for a final decision at third instance with the decision of the first instance. If she rejects the objection, that protection of the only residence is off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Will there be any lines to Mr. Mitev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u116	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now, within a consensus bill that we have been working together for a long time, we allow certain elements of improvisation in reporting and submitting proposals at the last minute and clarification, but this is not about editorial proposals at all. In fact, it is a very important proposal, which concerns us more, not less than what conditions a person can remain on the street, can lose his only home. This debate has been held for a long time, it has been the subject of a long discussion both in the Commission and at second reading. As I understand it, different countries took part there, expressed different positions. The Ministry of Justice, Mr. Minister, if the transcription that I am reading is correct, has even re-evaluated its position on this text. One of the main news in the specialized sites after this meeting was the fact that a step is being taken in this direction and ensuring that people do not stay on the street, if they are in debt, to prevent the possibility of a preliminary execution another someone to lose their home, and then the fact that it turned out not to be fair, explain it to those who have left without their home. And all this now, after the working group and the Commission have given a text and supported it, and it is distributed to the MPs and we have read it, we are told that there are actually other arguments, and the Commission President is starting the debate again essentially and practically reverses the decision. We absolutely disagree neither with the approach nor ultimately with the solution that is being offered to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Minister, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, to.. fellow Member Krum Zarkov correctly quoted the debate that was held in the Legal Commission. Indeed, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice within the working group was negative with regard to this text. In the context of the debate in the Legal Committee, I felt that there was reason to reevaluate the position of the Ministry of Justice, and that is why in this debate colleagues from the parliamentary group supported this proposal, which had fully involved the attention and argumentation of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this situation, however, I ask you to assess the burden of this overdefense, as Mr. Zarkov says, and its need in the context of this, whether the balance between the creditor and the debtor of the execution is violated. Let us take into account here that the debtor himself expressed his will to mortgage his own home and took this legal effect when concluding the credit agreement, which a credit agreement actually qualifies as a mortgage loan contract. In the debates in the Legal Committee you remember the reaction of the lenders through the Association of Banks in the Republic of Bulgaria and how this change will affect the revaluation of their loans.................................................................... As the two speakers before me rightly noted, in the previous provisions, we have created sufficient guarantees and opportunities, both to suspend implementation in the event of a large number, a wide range of prerequisites, and we have given the debtor the opportunity to defend himself much more actively in enforcement proceedings. By providing this opportunity, we are putting the creditor in a subjugated position in time to wait for a year and a half or two years for a decision to be given to the court of First Instance and to actually do so, it will stimulate debtors to argue whether they will be charged with additional and excessive costs. By the way, that's what they're doing now. By the way, the possibility to announce, even when announcing a public sale of the only unsecvestible dwelling, but mortgaged on mortgage credit, practice shows that it is delayed for more than a year and a half, up to two years. In order to discipline relations, I will support the opinion made by the President of the Legal Commission Mrs. Alexandrova through her proposal, in accordance with the Rules, to vote to reject this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mrs. Alexandrova's motion to reject § 14. They voted 102 MPs: 70 against 16, 16 abstentioned. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 501a al. 4 is
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u121	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 15, supported by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u122	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following name:
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u123	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a name supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u124	On the proposal of the importer for § 13 there is a proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u125	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 13. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u126	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15, in c. 1 concerning Art. 143, para. 1 after the word "trader" is added "or supplier". Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u127	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I take this opportunity that these are the last paragraphs of this law to thank all my fellow Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, of all political powers, for the good work in the Commission. I believe that with this bill, which we are now adopting finally at second reading, we are taking a decisive step in protecting the rights of consumers, all Bulgarian citizens, in cases where there are unfair clauses in the treaties that harm them, and we are giving them an effective mechanism for protecting their rights and legitimate interests, which so far was not a fact. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16, with the corresponding changes, and the rejection of § 15. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the Bill. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW OF OWNITY. Here you are, from the Committee on Legal Affairs, to present your report to us. Mrs. Atanasova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u130	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Property Act, No 954-01-72, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019. At its meeting held on 27 November 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Property Act submitted by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice Mr. Danail Kirilov, Minister. The bill was presented by the Member of the National Representative Milen Mihov, who pointed out that it provides for the suspension of the mining limitation on agricultural land restored to schools under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. He noted that it aligns the period for acquisition by limitation of agricultural land, restored under the Law, municipal and public schools, with that for acquisition of private municipal or state real estate, imposing a moratorium on acquisition by limitation until 2022. Mr. Mihov emphasized on the fact that some of the agricultural land donated to Bulgarian schools at the beginning of the 20th century were restored to school boards that had no authority to dispose of real estate and added that the Law did not provide for expenditure for the state. Minister Kirilov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Justice and said he supports the proposed bill. In support of the Bill, written opinions were received from the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the House, 2 votes against the House, and 6 votes abstentioned, proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for Supplement to the Property Act, No 954-01-72, submitted by Milen Mihov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Now, with the Report of the Committee on Education and Science, Mrs. Damyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u132	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law supplementing the Property Act, No 954-01-72, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019. At its extraordinary meeting on 21 November 2019, the Education and Science Committee examined the above-mentioned bill. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. A written statement was received from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, which supports the Bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Milen Mihov. It is proposed to align the possibility of acquisition by limitation of agricultural land, owned by municipal and public schools, restored under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, with that of municipal and state real estate, for which a moratorium has been imposed for acquisition by limitation until 2022. The aim of the bill is to stop the abuse of various interested parties with restored school land until legislative changes have been adopted to regulate the relations with respect to the ownership of these lands. The Minister of Education and Science supported the Bill and proposed extending its scope to include all institutions in the system of pre-school and school education. After the discussion and a vote was held, the Committee on Education and Science with 18 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Property Act, No 954-01-72, submitted by Milen Vassilev Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u133	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. And the report from the Committee on Agriculture and Foods Mrs. Belova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u134	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law supplementing the Property Act, No 954 01 72, submitted by the National Representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 25 September 2019 discussing the quoted bill. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the MP Milen Mihov. The Law proposes that the limitation for the acquisition of agricultural land owned by state and municipal schools should stop until 31 December 2022, by analogy with that of the estates, private state or municipal property. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill. In the subsequent discussion by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the legislative practice to undertake a legislative initiative related to the resolution of a specific case of a single school was misplaced. They noted that the status of agricultural land restored to schools is no different from that of other agricultural land restored under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, on which disputes about material law are settled in court. According to them, such an approach should also be applied when resolving the problem with this school in order not to set a precedent. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) agreed with the arguments presented so. They recalled that, even now, under the Property Act, the limitation period for the acquisition of property is no longer running until 31 December 2022. They noted that under the Law the Commission on Legal Affairs is the leading one, which should assess how much the proposal corresponds to the philosophy of the Law and that if there is a problem with school boards, their powers should rather be limited to the ownership of these properties. In conclusion, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill. From the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" urged the bill to be supported. They recalled that despite their name the school boards had the status of fully independent legal entities. They noted that it was indeed a single case, but the size of the property is large enough to justify the need to take legislative measures to protect the public interest, which will also have a preventive effect and prevent future attempts to seize such land. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes for the House, without the opposition and 6 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Supplement to the Property Act, No 954 01 72, submitted by the National Representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u135	Thank you, dear Mrs. Belova. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Will there be any motive from an importer? No. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, as an importer of the Bill, we understand the need for this action and the problem that you are trying to prevent, which you have named in the motives of robbing school lands. Most of my colleagues in the various portfolio committees have supported it, and we will support it today in the House at first reading, but I take the floor to note that, as has been rightly noted, this change will essentially not solve any issue. Since many opinions of ministries that support the Bill have been read, this legislation has been suspended for the period of limitation for the acquisition of properties since 2006 with regard to private state or municipal state property, you know. What we are missing to say, and I would like to draw attention precisely to those supported by the Council of Ministers, is that in 2014, the National Assembly obliged the Council of Ministers by 30 June 2015 to present to the National Assembly an Action Plan containing all the necessary measures to be taken by the relevant authorities in order to comply with the deadline under para. 1. The term under para. 1 is postponed year after year. I have tried to find such an action plan submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly. I didn't make it. I don't know if there is one or not, I didn't find it. In any event, it is obvious that all plans and measures of action have not been taken after MPs have been forced to submit partial bills, to extend the scope of this exemption. This is not a good attestation for state policy and the protection of state property and school property in this case. We will support the Bill at first reading, but I appeal to the Council of Ministers to pay attention to this problem and to this law supplementing the 2006 Property Act with the relevant changes by 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zarkov, you are, in a sense, right, but this is a specific case or segment to call it, which can be referred to by analogy "I am trying to be precise in my speech with the municipal and state property. It is specific because it concerns one property, which many years ago under the will of many people was donated to the Bulgarian schools, which were then independent legal entities. In the Ministry of Education, I have reliable information, in the last year and a half or two working hard on the issue of school lands, there are statistics made, and here it is about a significant amount of cases and a small one, we can call it a public resource in the form of restored school lands, forests and other property. For one reason or another, they are reputable and have the status of some places of municipal property, in other places they are restored to separate schools, in the third one of the school boards. However, these school boards are currently under the Pre-school and School Education Act, considered as non-governmental organizations and are not formally related directly to the institution. The Ministry of Education and Science is also working on this issue. A new regulation on the activities of these school boards is undoubtedly necessary, but pressed by the reality of life, this initiative, this moratorium is necessary both to resolve specific cases and to protect public interest, and to give the necessary time to prepare an expert and good solution to the property problem and the status of school boards. I thank you in advance for the support you have declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mrs. Sabeva, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u140	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is undisputed that the submitted bill and the proposed changes attempted to protect the agricultural land which was owned by the schools before the agricultural reform in 1946 and which after 1995 were restored to schools, municipalities and very often the school boards. The problem lies in the fact that in a number of cases there is a very frequent acquisition of these land by limitation by the school boards, which, contrary to the provisions of the Law on Persons and Family and the Rules on the Construction and Activities of School Boards, were registered for private benefit in 2003. Many members of the registered in the 1990s school boards continue to be the same persons and to be members, although they have long been unrelated to the school concerned. The current regulation needs to be refined and laid down clear rules on school ownership, management and disposal, as well as on the functioning and control of school boards. In order to protect the agricultural land of the schools, as well as to stop the practice and attempts to acquire these land by limitation, we will support the imported bill. However, the same proposed in this form will not solve in full, in our view, the problems that have arisen. Is it not clear, for example, excluded from the scope of § 1 of the Law supplementing the Property Act, property of kindergartens and centers for support for personal development? It is also necessary to provide for a prohibition on the acquisition by limitation applicable to notary proceedings and for all pending proceedings at present. I therefore believe that it is necessary to refine the bill, to make additional proposals between first and second readings to arrange in a fair manner all pending proceedings and to protect the property of schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2019-12-11.u141	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sabeva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, I am putting to the first vote a bill supplementing the Property Act, No 954-01-72, submitted by the National Representative Milen Mihov and a group of MPs on 18 September 2019. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. This was also the last item on today's agenda, colleagues. Tomorrow, 12 December 2019, regular plenary sitting at 9.00 We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
